•i(Blasgow IpresenteD AAA' '(JkX. 30114012760008r1^I, BouiLLi Croquets of Chopped Meat, & 2, Mutton Cutlets, (Garnished.. 3, Capons a la Godard (Garnished.) 4. Ham (Garnished.) B.Tongue (Garnished.)CASSELL'8 DicTiojN^AEY OF Cookery. WITH NUMEROUS ILLUSTRATIONS. Containing about Nine Thousand Recipes* ONE HUNDRED AND SECOND THOUSAND. CASSELL & COMPAKY, Limited: LONDON, PARIS, NEW YORK i MELBOURNE [all kiqhts reserved.]GLASGOW UNIVEF^SITY LIBRARYPREFACE, The art of Cookery is every day receiving increased attention : and no wonder. Life is made all the brighter by satisfactory feeding; and he is a dull philo- sopher who despises a good dinner. The pleasures of the table—as has been pointed out by the celebrated Dr. Kitchiiier—are enjoyed by us more than a thousand times every year, and whoever thoroughly realises that fact, will need neither argument nor eloquence to persuade him to an experimental acquaint- ance with all possible cooking processes and all possible recipes. But the strong point of good cookery is not its gratification of the palate, but its influence on health. This is a matter of far greater importance than is generally thought. It is no exaggeration to say that the explanation of many fatal disorders is to be found in nothing but badly-cooked and ill- assorted viands. Our households would enjoy better health, and be better able to withstand sickness when it came, if pains were only taken to have food well chosen and properly made ready. Every housekeeper, then, will g^ve the subject of eating and drinking a prominent pla-ce in her daily round of duties. A desire to aid in the diffusion of knowledge on such an important topic induced the Publishers to project a Work on Cookery which would be at once the largest and most complete collection of recipes ever produced in this country. Experience and energy were brought to bear on the undertaking, and the result is now before the reader. The practical part of the following work has been preceded by a complete treatise on the "Principles of Cookery."'' This has been written by a gentleman in every way entitled to speak with authority, thus making our Dictionary a marked contrast to many publications of a similar kind. " Too many,^-* says a distinguished chef, " who have presumed to write upon the art and science of Cookery are far from possessing any real or adequate knowledge of what they so recklessly attempt to teach.-" By reading these " Principles of Cookerythe cook will become possessed of the whole alphabet of her art. In the arrangement of the recipes the dictionary form has been chosen as the most convenient. Cross-references have been inserted where they were needed, and it is believed that any article in the work may be found withoutWtEPAOE. iv difficulty and at a moment's notice. Classified lists of recipes are to be met with under such heads as "Biscuits/' "Ices," "Jams," "Jellies/' "Puddings," " Sauces/' " Soups/' &c. The recipes are the tried recipes of good artists, and their intrinsic: excellence will certainly recommend them. They have been chosen with ai view to the varied capabilities and requirements of English households, and. no branch of Cookery up to the elaborate dishes of high life has been ignored. Not only everyday fare, but fare for extra occasions has been included. Cold meat cookery, the cooking of Australian meat, cookery for invahds, beverages of every kind, and the best methods of carving, have all re- ceived ample notice. The wholesomeness or unwholesomeness of many different kinds of food has been pointed out, and their nutritive value has been stated. Prices have been added in most cases, and the greatest pains has been taken to secure accuracy. In the Appendix have been given short articles on Kitchen Utensils, Seasonable Foods, and Terms used in Cookery. Great pains have been taken to give the work a practical character, and it is hoped that the illustrative woodcuts will add greatly to its intelligibility and interest. The directions have been put in tTie simplest form and the plainest language, so that the recipes may be as easily understood in the kitchen aa their results are sure to be popular in the dining-room. If the promise of this Preface is good, the performance of the body of the work will be found to be better. To its countless recipes then we leave the reader, parting from him with the words of Horace, " Should you know better precepts than these, candidly tell us; if not follow them, as we da" CONTEl^ TS. PAGE Principles op Cookery i ^c"^' Dictionary, A—Z ^ ^^^^ Appendix :— A. —Kitchen Utensils 1^^^ B. —Seasonable Food ^ ^' C—Glossary of Terms used IN Cookery . . n<(THE PEINCIPLES OF COOKING AND TABLE MANAGEMENT. THE WHY AND THE WHEREFORE OF BOILING, GRILLING, AND FRYING. ^ 'T would be a good thing for everybody—for we must all eat—if those who cook our food were in one respect to resemble what are called troublesome children. Who has not at some time or other met with a child who is always asking, Why V And, alas ! how often do we hear his thirst for knowledge restrained with some remark such as ''Little boys should not ask questions." This too often means that the one questioned does not know what to say, and is too vain to confess it. Now, if those who cook for us would only turn a little more in- quisitive, and occasionally ask, " Whyl" we should have better dinners. / ^ Why ought you to put a leg of mutton into boiling water ? Why [ T ought you to put meat for soup into cold water 1 Why does the souffle V ^ rise ? Cooks, and good ones too, often know facts but not reasons; they consequently are limited to a certain number of recipes which they have learnt by heart, but are quite incapable of either invention or imitation. A good cook, with a good palate, after seeing and tasting a dish, ought to be able to make one, if not exactly like it, yet near enough to pass for it; but I fear the faculty is, to say the least, rare. If we understood more than we do the principles on which cooking depends, the fact of being able to make one dish, combined with knowing the reasons for the result, would often lead to our being able to make a large variety of similar dishes, which a very slight inventive talent would enable us to vary so much in flavour, that instead of knowing one recipe we should know twenty. It is evident that in all cooking one of two great principles must constantly be brought into play. One, to keep the flavour in ; another, to get the flavour out. Let us for one moment contrast boiling a leg of mutton, and making good mutton broth. It is evident that in the one case, as we eat the mutton, our endeavour shovdd be to keep as much flavour in the meat as possible; in the second place, as what we want is the broth, our endeavour should be to leave as little flavoiir in the mutton as possible. Now there are many persons who positively proceed to prepare both almost the same way. There is a certain principle, or rather fact, which may be called a chemical fact, and that is, that albumen coagulates and becomes hard at boiling-point. This very important fact should never be lost sight of in cooking meat, for it should be remembered that meat largely consists of albumen. First, then, the leg of mutton. Place the leg of mutton in boiling water, this will take the water off the boil; let the saucepan remain on the fire till the wat<ir boils Intko.I^ cassell's cookery. p again hen removo the saucepan off the fire till tlie water gets nearly lukewarm then put the saucep.. on the fire again, and let it simrner, not boil, Jy the leg of mutton is done. The time of course varies with the siz , hZ one abou nine pounds should take about two houi-s and a half. Next let us inquire, ]V/i,i/ did we do this 1 The leg of mutton thus placed in boiling water has a rim round the edge hardened by contact with this boiling water, which causes the albumen to coagulate Were we to leave the leg to act^mlly boil for long, the whole would become hardened and consequently the mutton would be tough; but by removing the saucepan off the fire, we get the mutton to cook, surrounded as it is by a thin rim of hard meat not thicker than a thin sixpence, which hard i-im keeps in t/te gravy ami flavour. Now in making mutton broth we must proceed on exactly contr-ary principles Our object is to extract all the flavour we possibly can from the meat and get it into the broth, we therefore cut up the meat into small pieces, and put them into cold water, and let them simmer as long as possible without boiling; by this means all the juices of the meat gradually get extracted, and the soHd part of the meat that is left, after the broth is well drained off, contains scarcely any nourishment at all. I may here add, however, as some may possibly not know how to make muttm broth, that for invalids, to whom vegetables are forbidden, the proper proport?.6n8 for the broth are about two pounds of mutton and two ounces of pearl barley and a little salt to one quart of water. For ordinary mutton broth, when it is intended to be used simply as a soup, a couple of turnips, two leeks, a head of celery, one eaiTOt, a little parsley and thyme, should be put in with the meat to simmer; when all this is strained off, some pearl barley may be added that has been ah-eady partly boiled, and also a fresh turnip cut up into small square pieces ; these must be boiled till they are quite tender, and it will also be found best to pick out a few of the best pieces of the mutton before putting it in the water, in order to serve up in the soup. This same principle of which I have been speaking, namely, keeping in the flavour, applies to a large variety of dishes. For instance, suppose we want to have that good old-fashioned English dish, rumpsteak and oyster-sauce, how rarely is it that you get the latter fit to eat! Too often oyster-sauce is simply thick melted butter, ■with a few oysters in it that feel like leather, they are so hard. Now oysters are a great delicacy, and require great care in cooking ; I -will describe as briefly as possible how to make oyster-sauce, and at the same time explain the reasons for what we do. In the first place, if an oyster is boiled it becomes quite hard and uneatable; secondly, an oyster if put into hot liquid very quickly loses all its flavour. Suppose then we have a dozen lai'ge oysters. First of all have them opened so that every drop of the liquor is saved. Take off the beards, and place the oysters into a small separate basin, taking care, of course, that no little pieces of shell are left adhering to them. Next take half a pint of milk, and add to it the oyster liquor and beards, and put this on the fire to simmer gently. Here we see that, as we do not use the beards, our object must be to get what little flavour we can out of them into the sauce. Next strain off this, and thicken it with a little butter and flour previously mixed together. This is done by adding the butter and flour little by little, and stirring the sauce over the fire while it gently boils. As soon as the sauce has by this means become about as thick as cream, melt in about an ounce and a half more butter, and stir gently. Should the sauce appear to inin oily, it shows you have too much butter, and by suddenly checking the heat, and keeping on Stirling, the sauce will become all right again—a little piece of ice is the best, or aPBINCIPLES—OYSTER SAUCE—STEAKS—OMELETS. table-spoonful of cold milk will do. Now add a little pepper and a tea-spoonful of anchovy sauce. It is wonderful how anchovy sauce brings out the flavour of oysters. I would advise cooks to taste the sauce which is flavoured only with the oyster liquor and beards, before adding the anchovy sauce, and after it has been added. The change in the flavour is so wonderful that they will have a good practical lesson of the importance of little things for flavouring purposes. The next point is the oysters, which we left in a little basin. First have ready the sauce tureen, empty, but thoroughly hot. Have also ready on the fire a large saucepan or stewpan with boiling water. Next take a small strainer in the right hand, and hold it in the boiling water till the water boils with the metal part of the strainer in it. Lift the strainer just above the boiling water, and pour the oysters out of the little basin into it. Let the oysters be in contact with the boiling water not more than two or three seconds, let the water strain ofi* them, and then throw them into the hot tureen. Pour the sauce on to them, and the oyster sauce is ready. Now a moment's consideration will show that we have treated the oystore just on the same principle that we did the leg of mutton, viz., we have surrounded each oyster with a very thin film that keeps in the flavour. Had we allowed the oystei-s to have remained in the boiling water for two or three minutes instead of two or thi'ee seconds, we should have made them as tough as leather j had we not put them in at all, they would have lost much of their flavour as soon as they were put into the sauce, besides having a somewhat flabby taste. By doing what I have said, the hardening process went on just long enough to surround each oyster with a coating not thicker perhaps than a piece of gold-beater's skin, but then, when the oyster arrived at its destination, the mouth, the moment this coating was broken, the whole of the flavour could be tasted. Why does a well-cooked chop or steak look black outside and red in, and why does it require a clear bright fire ? Because this is the only way in which it can be cooked to keep in the flavour. The fierceness of the fire suiTounds the chop or steak, as the case may be, with a hard coating almost directly the meat is placed on the gridiron. When the steak comes up and is cut, you can then see the red gravy run out, and not before. Many a chop and steak is spoilt by turning it with a fork, as of course it lets out the gravy, which runs into the fire. I will now turn to quite another subject, viz., omelets. The principle of cook- ing here to be considered is how to make things light. Now how often do you get an omelet in a private house fit to eat ? Never—at least, that is my experience. And yet an omelet is really a very easy thing to make. The secret of a light omelet is to froth the eggs. But I will go through the recipe ah initio. Suppose first the omelet to be a savoury one. First take a new frying-pan, or one that has only cooked omelets before—it is no use tryiug to make an omelet in a frying-pan that has been used for all sorts of purposes. Take three eggs, and break them one by one into a cup, to see if they are good, and put them in a basin. Add a piece of onion, chopped finely, as big as the top of the first finger down to the nail, and about half a tea^spoonful of equally finely chopped parsley, about a salt- spoonful of salt, and half a one of pepper. Add two table-spoonfuls of milk. Now place in the small new frying-pan—which must first be cleaned with boiling soda and water, as new tin is sometimes poisonous—two ounces of fresh butter. Place the frying-pan on the fire, to melt the butter tUl it froths. Next, with a fork—a wooden fork is best—beat up the eggs with the milk, chopped onion, and parsley, and pepper and salt, till it is quite frothy. Keep on beating till the lastcassell's cookery. moment, and then pour it quickly into the butter, which, as I have said, must Ije frothing in the frying-pan. Take a hii-ge spoon and stii- it all up very quickly, scraping the bottom of tha frying-pan all the time, to prevent the omelet from sticking and bui-ning. As soon as it begins to set, take the frying-pan a little from the fire, and work the omelet with a spoon into a half-moon shape. When it is nearly set, take the frying-pan off the fire, and hold it in front of the fire, resting the edge of the pan on the bottom bar, and slanting the pan as much as possible; but, of course, care must be taken ' not to let the omelet slip right into the fire. Hold the frying-pan like thiB for a couple of minutes or so. This causes the omelet to rise, and it thereby becomes lighter. In large French kitchens, where there is no open fire, they hold a red-hot salamander over the omelet, which has the same efiect. A red-hot shovel does very well if you have a shut-up range. A sweet omelet is made in exactly the same manner, only of course there is no pepper, onion, or parsley, and only a tiny pinch of salt. Add, however, instead, a tea-spoonful of very finely powdered sugar, and half a tea-spoonful of essence of vanille. This last is an immense improvement. When an " omelette au confiture " is required, the omelet must be kept in the frying-pan round, a spoonful of the jam placed on the one half, and then the other half lifted over on to it with a slice, or something broad, so as not to break it. An omelet must be served directly it is cooked; so if you want a good one, always take care not to begin to prepare it until just before it is required to be eaten, as it only takes two or thi*ee minut-es to make. No great harm is done even if you have to wait for it. As I said before, the secret of a light omelet is frothing the eggs. Why ? Because by so doing you mix the omelet up with an infinite number of tiny air-bubbles. Now we all know that heat expands everything, air included. These little bubbles, therefore—some, perhaps, the size of a pin's point—become under the action of heat the size, possibly, of a pin's head ; and as long as the omelet remains hot it is light -—puffed out, in fact, by air-bubbles expanded by heat. If you let the omelet get partially cold, it in consequence gets heavy. This point is, however, more strongly exemplified in the case of souffles. A cheese souffle is a very nice thing to finish dinner with, and if you know how to make one, is a capital extra dish in case some one comes in to dinner quite unexpectedly. I will try and teli you how to make it, and also, as far as I can, explain why. I will describe how to make as small a one as possible, as it is easy to increase the size, and experiments are always most economical on a small scale. Take a round tin about four inches in diameter, and quite three deep. Have a piece of ornamented white paper ready to pop round the tin quickly. Next take two table-spoonfuls of finely-grated cheese—of course a dry cheese gi-ates the best—and place it in a basin with a quarter of a pint (half a tumbler) of milk, about half a salt-spoonful of salt, and a quarter of that quantity of pepper. Next break a couple of eggs, keeping the whites separate from the yolks in a small basin. Mix up the yolks with the milk, cheese, &c., thoroughly. Now take these two whites, and wliip them up into a stiff froth, and then mix in quickly the milk, &c. Butter the inside of the tin, and put it in the oven till it is very hot. Pour the mixture into the tin quickly, and place it in the oven. The oven must be of moderate heat, other^vise the souffle gets burnt outside and remains pappy in the middle. The average time of baking is about twenty-five minutes to half-an-hour. The souffle, which when placed in the tin did not half fill it, will rise up a couple of inches above the tin. EveiTthing, however,PRINCIPLES—FRYING. depends upon its being served quickly. Probably the souffle, if it is two inches above the edge of the tin when it leaves the oven, will sink nearly level with the top before it reaches the table. This cannot be helped, but everything that saves time must be thought of beforehand. For instance, some people delay to pin a dinner- napkin round the tin. Of course the best plan is to have a silver-plated souffl6-case, and then there is no occasion for any delay. These, however, are rare. Have a piece of clean white ornamented paper with a frill ready, and let there be plenty of room. Now the souffle very often bulges out at the top, and there is no room to put the paper over the tin. Don't let this, however, put you out. Drop the tin into the round paper, which should not be higher than the edge of the tin; but whatever you do, or however you do it, be quick; have a hot cover ready to pop on, and i-un with it to the dinner-table. The next point to consider is, Why did the souffle rise ? Because of the air- bubbles. It is easy to whisk the whites of eggs into a foam, but not the yolks. By separating the whites, therefore, and beating them up separately, we increased our number of aii"-bubbles to an enormous extent. These bubbles expand with the heat, hence the lightness of the souffle. On the other hand, as the souffle cools, the bubbles contract, the souffle goes down, and a cold souffle would be as heavy as a hot one is light. Now the principle is the thing to grasp. For instance, in making a cake, you want, of course, to make it light; therefore remember the souffle—i.e., beat the whites up sepai-ate from the yolks. This will have the effect of considerably lightening the cake, though, of course, as the process of baking a large cake is slower than that of baking a souffle, the cake would not rise in anything like the same proportion. Another important point on which we ought to examine into the principles of cooking, is that of frying. There are probably few dishes that test the cook's capabilities, mox*e important than that of frying. Contrast for one moment the discoloiu'ed dish, too often met with in private houses, in which, say, a " little bit of fish " is sent up, and presents what may be called a parti-coloured appearance. Some pai-t is burned black as a cinder; another part looks the colour of underdone pie-crust. Again, other parts may present the appearance of having those bald patches, as if the cook had accidentally spilled some boiling water on a cat's back. I say contrast this with the beautifully rich, golden-coloui-ed dish that will make its appearance at the table where the master-mind of one like Francatelli has presided, or with a dish that one would meet with in a Parisian caffe—the bright silver dish contrasting temptingly with the golden-coloured food and the crisp, dark-green parsley piled in the centre. What now is the difficulty 1 To keep to our subject, viz., the principles of cooking, we will briefly state that the generality of cooks find their difficulty to exist as follows :—They cannot obtain a nice colour without over-cooking their fish. The ordinary way in which cooks will prepare a fried sole (and we presume they will know something of their art) is, having dried the fish and floured it, they dip it in egg well beaten up, covering it over with some fine dried bread-crumbs, and having given it a gentle tap all round, somewhat resembling a young mother getting her first baby to sleep, they place the fish in the frying-pan, in which a dab of butter or dripping has been placed. One side is cooked before the other is commenced, part of the fried egg and bread-cinimb peels off in turning, and the result, both in appear- ance and flavour, is most unappetising. Having now described how not to do it, let me proceed to explain how to do it. First, the colour. Order in from your baker's a small bag of nice rich, golden, brownvi CASSELL'S COOKBEV. bimd-iiisiniigb. You need not fear the expense, as your baker will probably Bui)ply you with them for nothing. Have this always ready in a small flour-dredger on the kitchen mantelpiece. Having diied your flsh thoroughly, floured it, and egged and bread-crumbed it with small, flne, diy brciul-crumbs, take this dredger containing the golden-brown bread-raspings, and before gently patting your fish, cover it over lightly with a bro^vn fllm of flne raspings, and, lo and behold ! your flsh, before even it reaches the frying-pan, has obtained the colour you desire. All you have now to do is to concentrate your- mind 'ni cooking the flsh, so as to hit upon that hapj»y medium between its being dried up so that it is tough and unpalatable on the one hand, and an appearance of redness and stickiness along the back-bone, which are sure and certain signs that the flsh is not sufficiently well cooked, on the other. To attempt to convey an idea with regard to the time tliat a flsh takes to cook would be necessarily impossible. Of course this entirely depends upon the thickness of the fish. Nor would I confine my directions to the cooking of flsh solely. A sweet- bread is an exceedingly nice dish when projjerly fried and sent to table, presenting an ornamental appearance. I would, however, remind you that in all cases where the substance to be fried is beyond a certain thickness, it must previously be what cooks call parboiled. I would also impress upon you the importance of erring on the side of under-cooking rather than on over-cooking. Suppose, for instance, you have to fry a sole of somewhat unusual thickness. First take care that the fat in which you fry it is amply sufficient to cover the fish. Suppose now, you leave this fish in boiling fat for the minimum of time you think will be requisite to cook it. It is easy to remove the fish from the boiling fat carefully with a slice, and with a small knife cut the meat away from the back-bone in that part of the fish which is thickest. Should you find the meat adhere to the bone, and at the same time present a red appearance, you will know that the fish is not sufficiently cooked. In thLs case all you have to do is to place the fish back again for a few minutes longer in the boiling fat. Had, however, you waited for the maximvmi time, and foimd it over- cooked, I know of no method by which you could imdo the harm you have done. One hint as to mending what we may term patches. In cutting the fish you will probably displace a small portion of the outside, and thereby make one of those extremely disagreeable-looking places which we before likened to a scalded cat's back. If you have by you in readiness the dredger containing the bread-raspings, one sprinkle will hide the patch. Cooks with a very slight efibrt of ingenuity might often cover over these necessary little borings of discovery. I would, in passing, remind cooks that the secret of successful frying to a great extent depends upon the fat being hoUing. You cannot fry properly over a slow fire. Now when you have placed a good-sized frying-pan upon the fire, full of melted lard, it is not always easy to know when this fat is reaUy boiling and when it is not, for the simple reason that boiling fat will not bubble up like boiling water. To know, therefore, if the fat be boiling, dip your finger into cold water, and let one drop fall into the middle of the fat. Of course, the cold water, having greater specific gravity than the fat, would instantly sink, and if the bottom of the frying-pan be sufficiently heated, this drop of water will cause a hissing sound, from its instantaneous conversion into steam, resembling that of plunging a red-hot poker into water. I would, however, warn young beginners against throwing in, in their hurry, too much water at a time, as the sudden con- version into steam of the water thus thrown in will very probably cause the fat to splash, and a few drops of really boiling fat upon the hands and aims will be foundPHlKciPLES—ECOi^oiiY. vii ^ ' ~~ to be anything but agreeable. We must not, however, lose sight of the very soul of cookery, namely, economy; and, perhaps already, some young housekeeper may Jiave exclaimed, " Ah ! it is all very well; but we cannot afibrd to waste all this fat in just cooking one or two fish." "Wait a moment, however. Are you aware that the fat that would cook fish once will cook it twenty, thirty, even fifty times % Are you aware that if, after the fish is cooked, you pour the fat carefully into a basin containing boiling water, and stir it up and let it settle, the loose bread-crumbs, and the bad part of the fish, «kc., will sink to the bottom of the water, and the fat present a clean and wholesome appearance next morning when it has got cold % Let this fat, therefore, be carefully removed in a thick cake from the top of the basin into which it has been jjoured. Scrape ofi" carefully the rough pieces adjoining the watei', and place the fat by in a small basin by itself, and label it " for frying fish." I have no hesitation in saying that this fat will keep perfectly good in winter-time for two or three months. It is far cheaper in the long run to use two pounds of fat and cook things jorojoer/?/, and make the same fat do fifty times, than to use two ounces, cook the fish badly, and let the remains of the fat help to swell that bugbear of young house- keepers, the " cook's grease-pot." In conclusion, with regard to frying, be careful in removing the fish from the fat, that, before you place it on a dish, you let it rest a few minutes on a hot cloth, which will absorb the grease. At the same time, be equally careful that you do not place it in an oven to keep it warm. For fried fish to taste properly, but a very few minutes should elapse between the frying-pan and the dinner-table. A snow-white cloth at the bottom of the dish, some sprigs of bright green parsley placed alternately with a few slices of lemon, will give the dish a better appearance. I have, however, mentioned that I believe economy to be the soul of cookery. There is, perhaps, no word in the English language so little understood as this word economy. Just as political economists are too often considered by the vulgar to be men of hard hearts, so, too, in the art of cookery is economy often associated with meanness and stinginess. I have no hesitation in saying it will be invariably found that the better the cook, the more economy will be practised. There is more waste in the cottage than in the palace, for the simple reason that the cottage cook is entirely ignorant of an art which the chef has brought to perfection. What your so-called good plain cooks throw away, an ingenious French artiste will make into entrees. The French are a nation of cooks, and they cannot afibrd to dine without soup. Probably the contents of the dust-bins of England would more than fill the soup-tureens of France. I will give a very simple instance of what I term economy m the ordinary living of middle-class famiUes. We all know that grand old- . fashioned ^Aice de resistance, the British sirloin. Who has not seen it in its last , stages ^-the under-cut gone; the upper part dug out, on which some greedy mdmdual has evidently grasped after the under-done piece in the middle, but who, . at the same time, has entirely ignored the end. The kitchen more than follows suit to the dimng-room, and what is despised above is scorned below, and perhaps the real destmation of the end of the sirioin, which the young housekeeper fondly imagines has done for the servants' supper, has in reality been the dog-kennel, buppose, now, this end had been cut ofi" before the joint was roasted, and placed in a httle salt water, a nice, wholesome, and agreeable hot dinner would have been obtainable with the assistance of some boiled greens and potatoes. A little forethought m these matters constitutes real economy. Scraps of meat, fag ends of pieces of bacon, too often wasted, will, with a little judicious management, make a nice dish of rissoles^viii cassell's cookery. I have called attention above to the principles on which joints should be boiled, and I wHl now say a few words on an eciually important subject, namely the principle on which joints should be roasted. Just aa in the former case, so in the latter, the one point to be borne in mind is to keep in tlte flavour. Now in roasting a joint, perhaps some of you may tliink that to lose the flavour \h impos- sible. Such, however, is not the case. Just as in turning a steak on the gridiron you let out the gravy if you stick a fork in it, so in roasting a leg of mutton do you, to a certain, though not equally great, extent, let out the gravy if you run a hook right into the meat itself. There are ingenious machines made—which, however, are chiefly intended for haunches, particularly haunches of venison—by which the whole joint is surrounded by thin metal rods expressly intended to obviate the necessity of sticking anything into the meat. These cradles, however, are very rarely met with. Some little ingenuity will be sufficient, however, for the purpose in point. All practical cooks know the difficulty of hanging a leg of mutton or a haimch on the spit. After an hour or so the joint, under the influence of the heat, is apt to give, and the thin bone adjoining the shank breaks away. Now by placing a small piece of wood underneath the bottom of the joint, and fastening a piece of copper wire to either end of the wood, and bringing it up to the top or knuckle end, the joint is supported in a kind of cradle. The copper wire, however, is very apt to slip, but by tying two pieces of string round the centre of the joint, this difficulty will be overcome. Again, in basting a joint, that pai-t requii-es most basting which is least covered with fat. Should, therefore, you have a haunch in which a part of what we may term the breast had the appearance when raw of being somewhat lean, then slices of fat placed over it, and tied on to it, not skewered in, or a few sheets of well-oiled foolscap paper, will have the efiect of checking the heat during the earlier period of roasting, and consequently will prevent the joint from having the outside dried up, a fault too often met with. When the joint is very large, as, for instance, a haunch of venison, which may weigh perhaps twenty- five pounds, and consequently require five or six hours to roast, so important is it considered by good cooks to check the action of the heat in the early period of the roasting, that they cover over the haunch with a flour-and-water paste, by which means the whole joint gets thoroughly warmed through, and the outside is not burned, while the portion adjoining the bone is probably nearly raw. Of course, this paste must be removed an hour or half an hour before sending to table. The outside must then be browned, and at the finish frothed with a little butter and flour. There can be no doubt that the most economical institution in any kitchen is the stock-pot; and it is in this respect that our French neighbours show their enormous superiority over ourselves. It is obvious that the larger the kitchen, and the gi-eater the number of the persons to be supplied with food, the gi-eater vnW be the number of odds and ends that find their way back from the dining-room. In private houses it will be too often found that huge plates of what are ingeniously termed " broken victuals " are given to the dog, the greater portion of which, if placed m the stock-pot, would have been converted into most excellent soup. Now, it is unquestionably not agreeable to the English taste to use for culinary purposes bones that have been left upon plates. The economy of honing a joint—for instance, a loin of mutton—before cooking it, is very considerable, as the bones, which in tlie one case would have been left only half scraped upon the plates, are in the other converted into excellent soup.PRINCIPLES—PRACTICAL APPLICATION. With regard to boiling and roasting meat, we have already noticed that the great principle is to keep in the flavour by causing the whole joint or piece of meat to be surrounded by a thia rim, which rim has been rendered hard by the albumen con- tained in the meat coagulating under the action of heat. Now, this substance albumen is so important in all cooking operations, that we think it desirable to explain more fully its nature and its properties. One of the purest, and at the same time easiest, forms in which albumen is seen is the white part of an egg. We all know how liquid the white part of a new-laid egg is before it is boiled, but how solid it becomes under the action of heat; for instance, compai-e a fresh egg just broken into a cup and a hard-boiled egg, and then remember that the liquid transparent part of one is albumen before it has suffered from the action of heat, and that the solid opaque part of the other is albumen that has been, so to speak, changed by the heat into apparently a different substance. Meat contains in its juices a considerable amount of albumen; when, therefore, meat is placed in boiling water, or exposed to considerable heat, as in roasting, the same change takes place in the albumen in the meat as in the egg. It will be at once evident how the coagulation of the albumen assists in stopping up all the little pores in the meat through which the flavour and gravy would have escaped. In fact, we may fairly compare a well-cooked joint to an ordinary well-boiled egg. It is generally known that an egg requires about three minutes to three minutes and a half to boil. When it is cracked, if done properly, the inside will be liquid, but surrounded by a coagulated film of albumen. This is just the same with a properly boiled leg of mutton; the outside thin rim is hard, but the inside tender. Just as in the case of the egg, had it been allowed to boil for twenty minutes instead of three, the whole would have become solid, the whole egg consisting chiefly of albumen; so, too, with the leg of mutton, if it had been exposed to a boiling tem- perature the whole time, the albumen in the whole of the joint would not merely have coagulated but would have hardened, thereby rendering the joint tough. As we have before pointed out, when once the principles of cooking are under- stood, one recipe will often lead to another. Cooking is an art—a high art—and cannot be learnt in a day, nor can it be leamt by simply reading a book on the subject. The study of cookery must be combined with practice. Now there is perhaps 00 part of this practice so impox'tant as the knowledge of varying recipes as occasion may require. It will be evident that no work on cooking, however large or however good, can adapt its recipes to meet the requirements of every family ia quantity as well as quaKty. We have endeavoured, therefore, when it is possible, to give in our present work different methods of preparing the various dishes, &c.; but, of course, it would be impossible to give recipes, one adapted to a family of two, another for one of six, and another of twelve persons. , We will illustrate what we mean by referring to an excellent recipe for preparing bechamel sauce on page 48. We have here recommended the cook to boil down an old fowl, three pounds of knuckle of veal, and three pounds of very lean ham. This is, of course, for the preparation of a large quantity. Now, we will suppose the case of a family consisting of but two persons, and say two servants—a by no means uncommon occurrence. Of course, to purchase such quantities for two would be extravagant to a degree; however, are we, say our newly-married couple, to be deban-ed from the occasional taste of sauce b^chameU By no means. If the cook is in possession of some little education and common sense, she would have no diffi- culty whatever in grasping the pHnci^^le of the recipe to which we have referred ou Istho. 1*OASSELl'b COOitKfey. page 48. We will suppose the house to possess such very ordimry dbhes as the remains of a cold fowl and a piece of boiled bacon. Now, suppose the cook to road the recipe carefully, and see in about what proiKjr- tions tlie ditierent ingredients should be mixed. The carca«e of the fowl is cut up and placed in a saucepiui, with one or two of the bacon bones, which, being lean, form tlie best substitute for the lean ham. A little piece of veal—say a quai-ter of a pound, or indeed a spoonful of gelatine would do—must be added. Add to these a slice of carrot, or even the whole of a small one, a good sUce of onion, a tiny piece of mace, one or two peppercorns, and add salt to taste. Let all these simmer gently for ^ a couple of hours or so, and then strain it off", water having been added in a due proportion. Now, this stock would, of course, make excellent bechamel sauce, for the simple reason that every ingredient in the recipe has been used, the difierence between the lean bacon bones and the lean ham being too trifling to make any material change in the flavour. If this broth be well strained and well skimmed, and every particle of grease removed, and then be simmered down to about three-quai-ters of a tumbler in quantity, it has, of course, just like the other broth, only to be mixed with an equal quantity of good boiling cream, and slightly thickened with a little arrowroot, to be equal in flavour and excellence to any bechamel sauce served up in a first-class large hotel. In many hundi-eds of the recipes we have given, and shall give, it will be the duty of the cook, in order to render such recipes practical, or, in. other words, to make the recipe fit in to the exceptional circumstances of the family or place, to make such little alterations as we have described. Of course, in some instances, the quantities must be increased, such as in the case of large schools, and in othei-s decreased. One of the first principles of cookery is, as we have already stated, economy; and we will broadly defixie economy as the art of extracting the gi'eatest amoimt of noiu'ishment out of the various materials used, and not simply buying cheap things out of which to make dishes. For instance, poor persons will buy peas to make soup; and having boiled them as long as possible in some water, with a piece of bacon, will strain it ofi", and throw away the peas, thereby losing half the nourish- ment. A good cook would, of course, rub all the peas through a tammy, thereby rendering the soup twice as nourishing and twice as nice. This is an instance of want of economy, which we have said is more common in the cottage than the palace. STUDYING APPEARANCES. In addition to the first and primary principle of cooking, i.e., of supplying the body with nourishment, there are two other important priuciples to be constantly borne in mind— one is to please the palate, the other to please the eye. "We have called them two pruiciples, but in reality they are one, for the reason that the palate is pleased by means of the eye. There are some good old sayings pregnant with meaning, such as, " It makes one hungry to look at it," or " It makes one's mouth water." Have you ever observed a very hungry animal tied up, or in a cage, just before it is fed, when a fine and to him tempting piece of juicy meat is brouglit in view ^ Making the mouth water is no figiu'e of speech, but a reality that can be witnessed any day at the Zoological Gardens. I believe that in teaching young cooks one cannot begin too soon to impress upon them the importance of appearances. For instance, in making a mayonnaise salad, it is almost as easy to make an elegant dish as a plain one. Why not therefore do so on every occasion? Thei'RlNClt'LES—APPEARANCES. lettuce, ifcc, inside, the sauce made as thick almost as butter, and spread over the salad. ' A little lobster coral or fine-chopped gi-een parsley, sprinkled with a few bright gi-een capers on the white sauce. A few little strips of red beetroot added, and, if the salad be a chicken one, a few slices of white chicken, stamped in the shape of a cock's comb, placed alternately with some similar shaped pieces of red tongue, placed round the base; some filleted anchovies and stoned olives will be found an improvement. What a difierence to aU the ingredients being piled together in a dish anyhow without regard to appearances. 1 will take another instance. In London, at times, in cheap eating-houses, will be seen a window with perhaps fifty or a hundred cold roast fowls all heaped up together, going cheap. Does it make your mouth water even if you are hungiy 1 No. Suppose, however, we were to take one of these fowls, and put it on a nice bright silver dish, and ornament it with somfe green double parsley, and a few thin slices of cut lemon the dish must be placed on a cloth as white as snow—what a diflference! Again, look at a sirloin' of beef that has got cold in the dish in which it was originally cooked. The gi'avy has settled, and the whole joint is studded with wafers of fat; the edge of the dish, too, is gi-easy. Suppose some stupid servant were to bring up the joint just as it is. It is perfectly wholesome, but would it look tempting ? On the other hand, look at a cold sirloin on the sideboard, in a large clean dish, with plenty of curly white horse-radish and parsley. There are to my mind few dishes more tempting ; and yet, bear in mind, the difference between the two is simply that of appearance. Take, again, butter, especially in summer time; the same butter on a smeary plate looking like pomatum, or in a bright cut-glass dish done up into neat little pats, with here and there a tiny piece of parsley to set it off. I have known cooks exclaim—" Oh, never mind what it looks like as long as it tastes all right." This is, however, a great mistake. Now, in boiling fish, not only should the cook endeavour to boil it properly, i.e., not too much or too little, but also endeavour to make the fish white. How, you may ask, can this be done 1 By bearmg in mind that the colouring matter in fish is affected and partially dissolved by - acids. Suppose you have a large turbot. Before putting it into the fish-kettle, all you have to do is to nib the fat, white side of the turbot with a slice of lemon, the effect of this being to render the fish far whiter when it is taken out of the water than it otherwise would be. Here, again, when you know the principle, it is a guide to boiling all large fish. Of course, too, in lifting the fish out of the water, the scum floating on the top of the water should in every case be first removed, as it would otherwise settle on the fish, and destroy, not only the appearance, but even the flavour. In boiling all large white fish, regard should be had to appearances; no fish should be sent up quite plain. If the cook would always have in his or her possession a small quantity of lobster coral, a little could be easily sprinkled over the surface of the fish. It is wonderful how a fish is improved in appearance by such'a simple means as this. If, in addition, some fresh parsley, cut lemon, and a few good-sized prawns are used by way of ornament, the fish that would otherwise present quite an ordinary appearance is made into a really elegant dish. This principle of " making things look white " will extend beyond the region of fish. For instance, good cooks will put a few drops of vinegar into the water in which they poach eggs. Why? For the simple reason that the eggs will look whiter; the colouring matter mixed in with the eggs is more soluble in boiling water slightly acid than in ordinary water, and, consequently, poached eggs treated thisf'ARf?7i:LL'8 COOKERY. way will come to table presenting that snowy appearance that renders them far more appetismg-not that they taste better, but that the palate is affected tlu-ou^ih tlie eye. ^ COOKING A STEAK. As we have already adverted to those good old sayings current upon the suljject of the principles of cookery, we would refer to that perhaps most common one of all, viz., " The test of a good cook is to cook a steak and boil a potato." Let us dwell for a few moments on the important dish in all English households—" a steak," or a chop. I caixdidly confess that I think a chop or steak one of the very best tests of a good cook, for the simple reason that the proper cooking of either calls forth cei-tain qualities on the cook's part, which nothing but experience can give. These qualities may be briefly summed up in the words—forethought, patience, and common sense. In the first place, the state of the fire is of paramount importance ; and probably the cliief cause of chops and steaks being, as a rule, inferior when cooked in piivate houses to those prepared in public establishments is the difficulty of maintaining a clear fire in the former. To attempt to cook a chop over a fire on which coals have been recently placed is simply an act of insanity. Here, thei-efore, comes in the quality of forethought, to which we have alluded. By keeping the fire bright, and supplying it with judicious ashes or pieces of what we may term home-made coke, much may be done to rival " the grill" of large establishments. We will, therefore, suppose a moderately bright fire, free from gassy exhalations, and also suppose the cook to be above the barbarism of even thinking of a frying-pan as an easier, and, with a view to the "grease-pot," a more profitable piece of machinery than the gridiron. First, place the gridiron on the fire for a minute or so, and then take it off" and smell it. It may seem to some absurd to mention such trifling matters of detail, but then cooking—good cooking—consists in constantly observing details. As we said, smell it, for the simple reason of finding out if it has been properly cleaned. Suppose, for instance, it has cooked a bloater on the last occasion; the heat will bring out the possible omission of cleanliness on the part of the person whose duty it was to see the gridiron put by in its proper state. Having, therefore, warmed it, rub it carefully with a piece of paper; and let those who doubt the ad^-ice thus given go down themselves to their kitcliens and try their own gridiron, and observe the colour of the paper after this very necessary operation. If the gridiron has been used on the last occasion for fish, it will be fomid a good plan, after wiping it with paper, to finish with iiibbing tlie bars with a small slice of onion. By this means a fla\^our highly objectionable is destroyed, and one that, even if detected, would do no harm is given. Suppose, therefore, the gridiron clean, and the chop or steak placed on it. No advice with regard to time is here possible. The cook has to depend entii-ely on his judgment. The state of the fii-e, the size and especially the thickness of the meat, and also the time of year. A chop will require longer cooking in wmter than in summer; and for this reason it is always advisable to have chops or st*!aks placed in the kitchen in winter for some hour or two previous to theii- being cooked. By tliis means, that nasty-looking blue appearance in the middle may often be avoided. Next, cook the chop or steak quickly in the early period ; the reason of this—to keep to our subject, the principles of cookery—is in order that we may surround itPRINCIPLES—CHOPS AND STEAKS. with that hard rim that keeps in the flavour. Next, do not be too much afraid of what cooks call "a flare." In feet, err, if possible, on the side of encouraging a flare. Sometimes it will be found advisable, when you think the cookmg process is not' going on sufficiently quick, to drop a little piece of fat or dripping into the fire to make^a blaze. The end desired is red inside, black out. The difficulty is to know when the chop or steak is done; and the only proper method to find this out is to pinch the meat. Uncooked meat is Jlabhj, over-cooked meat hard. A well- cooked chop hits on the happy medium between these two alternatives. Tlie proper thing with which you should turn or test a chop or steak is a pair of cooking tongs made specially for the purpose. Whatever you do, however, do not cut it to look at it, for in this case you sacrifice all the first principles of cookery, and commit that most deadly sin for a cook, viz., you let out the gravy. Suppose, therefore, you pinch the steak with the tongs, or press it with the side of a fork on the gi^idiron, and it feels spongy; this means that the inside is not simply red but blue, and that, therefore, it requires a little longer cooking. Suppose, however, it; feels firm, not hard; this means it is done, and the outside appearance of being black, which, for fear of being misunderstood, we will call being well broAvned, like the outside of a well-roasted sirloin of beef, should for this very reason have been acquired early in the cooking, as any further attempt to obtain colour would be attended with the risk of over-cooking and, consequently, drying up the meat. There are many things best cooked on the gridiron besides chops and steaks ; for instance, kidneys, mushrooms, tomatoes, bloaters, &c.; but we would here mention one case of the use of the gridiron, not perhaps generally known, and that is of cooking substances wrapped up in oiled paper; for instance, a slice of salmon grilled. It is, of course, at once apparent that a clear fire is here indispensable. Should any blaze exist, the paper would catch fire, and there would be an end of the attempt. The principles of cooking, however, are here very clearly exemplified. Why should the slice of salmon be wrapped up in this oiled paper ? Simply for the good old reason of keeping in the flavour. Just as in cooking mutton cutlets en papillate, all the flavour that would otherwise escape is by this means kept in the meat. To grill, therefore, properly, it is requisite that the cook should possess patience. It is no use placing a chop on a gridiron, and leaving it to look after itself for a few minutes. It may, for instance, stick to the gridiron a few seconds after it is put down; and the smaller the fire and the gridiron, the more likely is this to occur. To obviate this possible contingency, a push, if only to move the chop an eighth of an inch, is requisite. Again, if the chop appears to be cooking slowly, lower the giidiron to the fire ; on the other hand, if it appears to be doing too fast, raise the gridiron; and, as we have before suggested, if the bro^vning process does not take place as it should, make a flame by means of throwing in a little piece of fat or a little dripping. In serving up a chop or steak, it should be borne in mind that, like a souffle, it should be sent up directly. A mutton chop to taste right should bum your mouth. This principle is well recognised in some of our public restaurants which possess their "grill room." You cannot warm up a chop or steak any more than you can warm up an omelet. In removing the chop from the gridiron, especially if it be in a flaring state, take care to let it rest for a few seconds in mid-air to let the fat drop from it, as, should it be placed on the dish just as it is, a little of the fat will run off* it and give a greasy appearance to the dish that is far from desirable. Of course, too,cassell's cookery. the dish on which the chop is placed, as well the cover which goes over it slioukl be made not merely warm, but hot. ' CLEANLINESS. Of ail the principles upon which really good cooking depends, there is perlmps none so import^mt as that of cleanliness. I would here remark in passing that real cleaidiness is by no means so common as many would imagine, the reason being that often servants do not know how to be properly clean. I wiU give one very simple example—a wine decanter that looks dull. You will be told it has been thoroughly washed, and perhaps some brush inserted, witli great difficulty and loss of time, down the neck. Still the decanter does not look bright. Supjjose, however, the person in charge of the glass had been properly instructed—a handful of silver sand put in the decanter with a little water—what a difference ! The decanter, after being well rinsed so as to get rid of every particle of sand, reassumes that bright appearance that it originally possessed when, sparkling on the velvet stand under the sunlight in the window, it tempted the passer-by to enter the shop and purchase it. It may seem a rude statement, but nevertheless ti-ue, that the ignorance of some persons, especially women, is simply unfathomable. There are cases on record in which attempts have been made to wash greasy things without soda. This ignorance is, of course, rare; but, too often, cooks wash up incompletely for the sole reason that they will not use enough soda. Various causes for this will they assign. They say it chaps their hands, but I would remind cooks that very often they moisten their hands with hot soda and water very unnecessarily. It is easy, with a little manage- ment, to avoid strong soda and water touching the backs of the hands and wrists ^t all, and these are the parts principally affected. A little grease, too, rubbed on the backs of the hands is a great protection. Another point often omitted is the washing of the lids of the saucepans as well as the saucepans themselves. The saucepan may be perfectly clean; but many a dish has been spoiled by a dirty lid having been placed on it, the pei'haps decomposed flavour of the last ingredients cooked in it dropping down with the condensed steam. Take, for instance, the case of a large fish-kettle which will take in a turbot whole or a salmon. Now, the water in which fish has been boiled will often tm-n to jelly when cold, and little pieces of fish are very apt to stick in comers, &c. I would strongly recommend every cook, before filling the fish-kettle, to put it for an instant on the fire, just long enough to make it warm; then smell the kettle; the warmth will be sufficient to melt any little congealed particles that may by chance have remained behind. Many a fine fish has been utterly spoilt, and the fishmonger blamed when the real party at fault has been the cook. In speaking of omelets I recommended either a new frying-pan or one that had only been used for omelet purposes. The reason of this is that, however careful the cook might be, the difficulty of absolutely cleansing the frying-pan, suppose, for instance, it had been used for the purpose of fr)ring onions, is really gi-eater than many persons would suppose. Now, a sweet omelet, in which the delicate flavour of vanilla assists, would be ruined by the slightest tinge of onion flavour. Let those who blame a cook for imperfect washing, themselves wash an old eau-de-Cologne bottle thoroughly, cork it down tightly, and smell it at the end of a week ; they will then be the better able to understand how certain " flavours" possess the property of clinging to hard substances, such as glass, and will be more lenient when they find fault with others.XV Another important point in the principles of cookery for cooks to remember is, to avoid sending things up " smoky." Have you ever tasted a really smoky dish ? say soup, and have you any idea how it is rendered so ? for the only way to avoid the disaster is to understand the cause. We will suppose the house well ordered, the kitchen chimney swept regulai-ly, the kitchen stove properly cleaned, and the soot regulai-ly find cai-efuUy brushed away, not only from the back and sides of the gi-ate, but from the outsides of the saucepans. Yet the soup comes up smoky. I will describe the performance of smoking soup. We will suppose the saucepan boiling gently on the fire, which is getting somewhat low; the cook veiy properly puts on some coals, which, of course, causes the smoke to rise; shortly afterwards she looks at the soup to see how it is getting on, or whether it is boiling too fast. We will suppose her young and careless; and she replaces the lid with a bang, and, in so doing, shuts in some of the smoke into the saucepan. Alas ! the deed is done, and the soup, or indeed any other food, ruined, so far as taste goes. The moral of all this is, Do not take off the lids of saiicepans at all over a smoky fire. There are, of course, many persons to whom these simple elementary truths are so familiar that they may smile at the caution. On the other hand, however, they should recollect it is our duty to teach the ignorant and not the educated; and we can assure our readers that there are in this country hundreds of so-called cooks, or we may say women who do the cooking, who have sent up dishes smoky from the very cause we have named, who have not the slightest notion of why they became so. Another way of rendering dishes smoky, even when the fire is fairly clear, is to rest the lid of the saucepan on the hob while its contents are being inspected. We would ask some young cook to rest the lid on the hob as we have described, and, instead of re-covering the saucepan, to smell the lid. The lesson would be a very practical one. In cooking, as in every other art and science, to be forewarned is to be fore- anned. We have already called attention to the fact that the palate is considerably affected by the eye, so also is it affected by the nose. Tlie best illustration of this is a glass of fine old Burgundy or Chateau Margaux claret, in which, in addition to the flavour, and the colour or brightness, we have the magnificent bouquet, which appeals to the palate through the organs of scent. Accordingly it becomes an important principle in cooking to consider not only the flavour and appearance, but also to use the sense of smell as a criterion whether a dish is being properly prepared or not. Who does not recollect occasionally passing oiitside some large restaurant or first-class hotel and being greeted with a rich perfume arising through the railings, which somehow inspired perfect con- fidence in the dinner about to be served ? On the other hand, has it been your fate to dine where you have had placed immediately in front of you a dish of gi-eens improperly strained 1 To some persons of sensitive palate and nose a dinner is absolutely spoilt by a little contretemps of this kind. In the preparation of all dishes, therefore, the cook should constantly bear in mind the importance of using her scent as well as her palate and her eye. Many a good dish has been utterly spoHt by one of the many ingredients'being bad which when added has contaminated the whole, which a very little care in smelling would have prevented. For instance, gravy that has been left, or the remains of beef-tea, is always added to the stock-pot or mixed up with the soup. Now it often liappens, especially in hot weather, that Uttle quantities of this kind turn sour,xvi in fact get putrid ! Tliis is easily and instantly detected by smelling. Again, the flavour of anything burnt or smoky is hont detected by the nose. Who has not at times had soup served that tastes smoky, or an omelette that tastes burnt ] Here again the nose is the quickest organ to detect the fault—a very good proof of which is the common observation heard in the higher regions, such as the staircase or dining room, " All, there's something burning!" Sauce piquant, if too acid, can be detected by the smell; soup too gi-easy can likewise be detected by the smell, as well as dishes over-spiced; but experience alone will tell when the nose can be used instead of the palate, and it must be borne in mind that good cooks never keep tasting, as the result of that is invariably temporary suspension of palate altogether. KITCHEN MANAGEMENT. Another important point in the principle of cookery is the management of the kitchen. Now, of all the various points that compxise kitchen management, perhaps none is more important than what we will call "clearing up as you go along." Contrast a well-ordered kitchen with a badly-managed one at that trying moment that cooks call dishing up. In the latter you will find the cook with a flushed face and hurried manner, surrounded by a perfect chaos of dirty saucepans, dishes, spoons, basins, knives and foi'ks ; and woe be to that natural enemy of the cook, the Buttons, who speaks to her under these circumstances. " There, don't bother me, I don't know which way to turn !" Who has not at some dinner-parties witnessed those awful pauses between the courses, and have quite felt for the hostess, whose utmost endeavours to appear unconcerned are but ill-concealed, and whose eyes turn anxiously towards the door through which nothing seems to make its appearance 1 But if the mistress is to be pitied above, much more is the maid to be pitied below, whose flurry of agitation is increased by the footman's, " Come, cook, make haste, they are all waiting !" Now all this confusion arises from want of forethought. The good old maxim, " Never put off till to-morrow what can be done to-day," never applies with greater force than in the arrangement of a good dinner. As far as possible let everything be arranged beforehand in proper order. The soup of course should always be made beforehand if possible, and be of a nature that will keep. There are so many little things that can only be done the last moment, that it is of the utmost importance that everything that possibly can be done before should be finished and put by. I will give an illustration of a dinner—a very ordinary one—in which the cook can have plenty of time to herself at the finish. Suppose now a long dresser neatly covered over with old newspapers, on which are stood in row cooking utensils as follows:—First, a saucepan, containing mock-turtle soup ; second, a stewjian, con- taining say some stewed eels; thii'd, a tin of oyster patties; fourth, a stewpan, with some haricot beef; here a saucepan containing some rich brown gi-avy, and another in which an onion reposes quietly imbosomed in bread-cinimbs and mOk. Now, all these things might have been placed there hours before dinner. Say the number of persons for dinner is eight. Now, on the dresser in front of the Boup-tureen should be placed a pile of eight clean-dusted soup-plates, and a pOe of eight ordinary plates in front of every other dish. We wiU suppose two roast fowjsxvii PRINCIPLES—MANAGEMENT. bo he twirling round in front of the tiro, and that the cook, when she put them down, took into her calculations the time it would take to consume the soup, fish, and two entrees of oyster patties and haricot, and also the average length of delay common to the fomily • for masters of families who have a trick of ordering dinner at seven o'clock and coming home at half-past, must put up with two alternatives-one to have dinner regularly half an hour late, the other to have the dinner at times utterly spoilt, from nearly everything being overcooked. _ •, . , ^ ^ We might have added to our list a saucepan full of cold water, m which float sufficient peeled potatoes, and a basin of water, in which float some well-washed bi-ussels sprouts. Now, if a cook arranges all these things a good hour before dinner, has a good clear fire, and everything round bright and clean and washed up, I defy her to get into a muddle. The soup-tureen and the vegetable-dishes must be filled with boiling water some time before they are wanted. If there is a proper plate-warmer the plates can be placed in it at the right moment, and everything will go straight. Some cooks, however, with such a simple little dinner to arrange as we have described, would, from simple dilatoriness, get into a muddle just at the finish. You will perhaps find them skimming the gi-avy or making the bread-crumbs all of a huny when it wants but half an hour to dinner-time. Another instance in which a little forethought will save a great deal of trouble is that of pouring a little boiling water into a saucepan directly it comes off" the fii'e and is emptied. We shall have, another time, to speak of the enormous power enamel saucepans possess of retaining heat. Now, suppose the cook boils up the gravy, pours it into the hot tureen ready for it, and puts the saucepan down just as it is. The dregs of the gravy cake on as hard as ii'on from the action of the heat, and the saucepan requires three times more washing than if the cook had had the common sense to put the saucepan under the boiler tap for a second or two, and given it a rinse round. Having now briefly pointed out in these papers the outlines of the first prin- ciples on which good cookery depends, we will proceed to discuss these principles more in detail. In all large works on cookery it must be borne in mind that receipts are of necessity brief A certain amount of knowledge on the part of the cook must be pre-supposed. For instance, in cooking fish—say, a fried sole —the directions given would be—" Egg and bread-crumb the sole," &c. I re- collect once asking a person of good education (an M.A. of Cambridge) what he would do were he to egg and bread-crumb a fish. He candidly confessed he had not the slightest idea; and on being pressed for an answer, guessed that the best method would be to first boil the egg and chop it fine, &c. . . . Now, of course, this is ignorance of a certain kind, but a very common fonn of ignorance which, indeed, does not deserve the name. Ignorant persons with a little kno vvledge of a special kind are very apt to laugh at others who, while ten times better educated and better informed than themselves, happen to exhibit a little ignorance on the special subject on which they themselves are informed. For instance, a carpenter's apprentice would probably laugh at and feel great contempt for a man who should walk into his workshop and be unable to pick out a jack-plane from the others. For all that, however, this man might be the most brilliant statesman of the age. Again, the greatest living scholar or historian might be supremely ignorant as to the best method of cleaning pewter, and might very possibly be regarded in con- sequence as a fool by the pot-boy. We consider it therefore, necessary in our0ASSELL*8 COOKERY, present work to supply for the benefit of absolute novices a few simple direction.s a^d explanations which, if given in each receipt, would magnify theUBtrwork into ten tunes xts present sxze. For instance, there Ls a story on Lord of a certain royal personage many years ago who remarked that he wondered how the apples were got m o the dump mg. Now, why should an ignorant person any more than rnx educated one be .shamed of saying-^at is all veiy well to say. Baste it thoroughly ; but what do you mean by ' baiting ]' " Probably any cook of exceed- mgly elemenUuy knowledge would laugh at the idea of explaining anything so sxmpla On the other hand, a professed French cook might as well laxigh at her for not kiaowing how to bone a turkey, or to lard a fillet of beef, or make mayon- naise sauce. In teaching cooking, as in teaching everything else, the great art for the teacher is to bring down his own mind and thoughts to the level of the pui^iL We wish, therefore, in the present work to take nothing for granted. The greatest astronomer commenced his course of study by learning the axioms of Euclid, the fii-st of which IS the self-evident fact that " things that are equal to the same thing are equal to one another." There was a period in the life of Francatelli— probably an early one—when he did not know what it meant to ba.ste a joint, and was ignorant of the fact that a greasy saucepan required soda in the hot water in order that it could be properly cleaned. GRAVY. One of the best tests of a good cook, in our opinion, is good gravy. Good gravy should be perfect in all the four following particulars :—Flavour, colour, smell, and consistency. How very often, especially in private houses, do you get gravy—or rather so-called gravy—in the shape of thin beef-tea, or else it comes up resembling gruel not only in colour, but absolutely in taste ! In speaking of gravy, we will first refer to the gravy that is naturally formed in roasting a joint; and secondly, to that far higher branch of cooking, viz., good gi'avy served in a small tureen with chickens, ducks, game, &c. First, the gravy naturally formed in roasting a joint—say a leg of mutton. "VVe will compare two legs of mutton as they appear when sent to table, which we will call, respectively, the cheap lodging-house leg, and the gentleman's-house leg. The fii*st will be generally sent to table surrounded with a thick greasy gravy resembling light- brown gruel, and indeed difiers but little in appearance, flavoiu', and consistency from the gravy generally sent up surrounding roast veal. The method pursued is as follows :—Fii-st, the joint has been hung up before the fire in the usual way, a large pan (called the dripping-pan) having been placed underneath it to catch the fat that after a short time always drops from a joint placed in front of the fire. The joint, having been roasted sufficiently, has been probably dredged with flour, i.e., some flour has been shaken over it from a round tin box with holes in the lid. After a time, the woman cooking the joint has unhooked it, and placed it on a dish which ought to be a hot one; she has then taken a basin and poured off" the gi-eater portion of the fat in the dripping-pan into it, leaving the sediment or dregs in the pan. She lias then poured a little water into the dripping-pan, and given it a rinse, and poured this into a saucepan or frying-pan; but as this appears to her too tliin, she pi-oceeds to thicken it in the following rough-and-ready way:—She first adds to the contents of her saucepan a tea-spoonful or more of ordinary flour, this latter being first mixedxix PRINCIPLES—A BOAST LEG OF MUTTON. with a Httle cold water, and tlie whole is then briskly stirred with a spoon, brought to a boil, and poured over the meat This is the ordinary elementary and most uns'cientilic method of thickening gravy. There are many small families where the master of the house goes out early every morning, returning home to supper, and where but one joint is cooked a week—viz., the Simday early dinner. The leg of mutton is the usual joint, and is invariably prepared in the way we have described. Now, there ai-e thousands of pei-sons who prefer a leg of mutton cooked this way to any other, just as they would prefer a lettuce with half a pint of vinegar with it, to one cli-essed with mayomiaise sauce from the hands of a Soy&r. It is, perhaps, as weU that all our tastes are not alike. The proper method of serving up the gravy is as follows:—Avoid two things, viz., flour and grease. Have you ever seen a spoon dipped in the gravy of a joint, and lifted ? On one side a film of fat hangs. Now, when I see this, the effect on the appetite is exactly similar to a sudden lurch on board ship, when, after a little misgiving, you have taken your seat in the cabin at breakfast. We will suppose the leg, as before, sufficiently roasted. Then take the dripping-pan cai-efully, and pour off slowly from a corner of the di'ipping-pan all the fat into a small basin. At the bottom of the clear hot fat or dripping in the drippiiag-pan will be seen a brown sediment. This is really the concentrated gravy, and the cook's object is to pour off all the gi-ease and yet retain the sediment. With a little care this can be done easily. Next place the di-ipping-pan imder the boiler- tap, and pour about half a pint or a little more of boiling water into it, and with an iron spoon simply wash off all the brown streaks and spots on the dripping-pan. These brown marks are really gravy dried up from the action of the heat, and very much resemble in composition what is known as extract of meat. Having stirred up all the water thoroughly in the well of the dripping-pan, the gravy can now be pom^ed through a sti-ainer over the joint. This gravy should be clear and bright, and very nearly free from fat. Of coiirse, some little amount of fat is unavoidable, and this will make its appearance in the shape of wafers during the cooling process which takes place during carving, but if proper care has been exercised the gravy will not be speedily covered with large cakes of fat, nor will that dreadful hanging from the spoon take place, with the result of setting you against your dimier almost before you commence. Some will say, however, " Ah, but you can't get the mutton nice and brown without flouring it at the finish!" First, I deny the fact if the fire is really a fierce one; secondly, if you use flour to brown the joint, I would suggest that it is quite possible to flour the joint without flouring the dripping-pan, by simply taking the latter away, and placing a tin under the meat for a little while. The joint can then be dredged, and pushed closer to the fire at the finishing of the roasting to brown, while the cook goes on with the gravy in the manner we have pointed out. I have here again given the ordinary common way in which most cooks in fairly well-to-do families cook a joint. The gravy to a haunch, loin, or saddle of mutton is obtained in exactly the same manner. It is, however, an improvement to substi- tute a little broth—I don't mean stock—for the boiling water; for instance, if there are some trimmings from the joint, including a good-sized bone, place these on the fire in a saucepan with some water and a pinch of salt, and let them simmer as long as you like, taking care there is little or no grease on the top, and use this to pout- into the dripping-pan instead of the plain boiling water. If the gravy is wished to be particularly good, stock, i.e., broth made from meat, flavoured with onion parsley, celery, &c., may be used in the case of a joints of beef, but it is re^yCASSELl's COOKEllY. XX quite unne essaxy In the case of mutton or lamb it is absolutely objectionable The great desideratum m roast nu.tton is si.nplicity. Hot and red from the gravy being in it, and no blue from being underdone, and served as simply as possitk Z Its own gravy, is what the really simple English palate most prefers Eecollect the highest cooking is often the perfection of simplicity. Good beef and mutten give off, as a rule, plenty of good gravy. Lamb, veal, and pork but little; these three latter kinds of meat, which in passing we would mention require longer cooking in comparison to their size than either mutton or beef should have a little gravy made separately. Only in the case of lamb, remember' ^ have a very simple broth made from lamb-bones or mutton-bones, or it will over- 1 power the flavour of the lamb. But in reality lamb does not want much gravy if it IS brown and crisp, and has good wholesome mint sauce served with it. We next come to the ordinary gravy for roast fowls, chickens, game, &c., the principal difficulty in the preparation of which will generally be found to be the thickening; and as this question of thickening lies at the root of many failures, both in soups, gravies, and entries, we shall have to dwell on it at some length.' Gravy is made from stock. It is, however, of course impossible to describe eveiy- thing at once. We are of necessity compelled to use words such as "stock" without describing what stock means. We will treat the subject "stock" more fully another time, in addition to the ample and clear directions given under the letter S. We will briefly state stock to be the juice of meat>—beef, veal, &c.—exti-acted by placing it in water, and allowing it to simmer slowly for a long time, extra flavour being imparted to the " meat tea" by the addition of various vegetables and herbs, such as onions, parsley, carrots, turnips, celery, &c. Good stock made in the old-fashioned way requires a pound of meat to every pint, and is con- sequently, owing to the present increase in the price of meat, very expensive. On another occasion we shall point out various methods by which stock can be made without this allowance of one pound to a pint. Now stock, however made, although if done properly is a jelly when cold, is of the consistency of water when hot. By thickening we mean the process by which the stock is brought, when hot, from the consistency of water to that of cream. A great many cooks, by means of having plenty of meat placed at their disposal, often succeed in the early stage of gravy, i.e., they get the stock good and strong, although of a poor colour. It is too early yet in our lessons on the Principles of Cookery to describe how good stock may be made to assume a bright golden colour by simply being left to make its own colour in the stock-pot, and consequently it will be more practical to show how to make a Hght-coloured stock into good brown gravy. We have already described the elementary process of thickening by simply adding flour; the next stage in advance is flour and butter combined. This is, perhaps, the most common of all methods. A cook will place a small amount of butter on a plate, and by its side a little heap of flour. She will place this jilate in front of the fire for the butter to dissolve, and will then, with a steel knife, or if a trifle more advanced in knowledge with a spoon, knead the butter and flour together, add this to the stock, stirring it in till it boils, when the stock will become thick in proportion to the amount of butter and flour put in. By extravagantly using extract of meat, or colouring of some sort, such as sugar, or still worse, a colouring ball, a certain amount of brown colour is impai-ted to the gravy, which, if the stock is really good and well flavoured and the pepper not forgotten, will be byPllIXCI f LES—GRAVY. no nieaus bad. What, however, is the drawback ? The flour ha& been used raw, and a keen palate will detect the flavour we have mentioned and described as " c'ruelly." What, however, is the remedy for this ] Let the flour be fried instead of raw; or, in other words, instead of simply using butter and flour to thicken the stock, use brown thickening, or brown roux, as the French call it, and let me here tell cooks that in the end they will absolutely save both time and trouble by making some of this roux or brown thickening beforehand in a fairly good quantity, as when it is made it will keep for a very long time. We all know the difierence in the taste of a piece of pie-crust before it is baked and afterwards—one tastes of the flour, the other has a rich taste altogether different. Just such is the difierence between ordinary butter and flour and brown thickening. In making thick mock-turtle soup, brown thickening is used to impart that rich flavour which is the characteristic of all thick soups. It would be a most instructive experiment to a young cook if she has a trustworthy taste to try the difierence in the flavour of a little good stock or soup; the one thickened with ordinary butter and flour raw, and the other with brown thickening, which we will now desciibe how to make at somewhat fuller length than would be justifiable in a receipt which, as we have before said, necessaiily presupposes a certain, amount of knowledge. Suppose, then, a cook to possess some fine dry flour—say half a pound—the same quantity of butter, an enamelled stewjjan, a clear brisk fire, and an onion. First place the butter in the stewpan, and melt it till it nms to what cooks call oil. It will be found that there is a white scum at the top, and a milky sediment at the bottom—recollect, melt the butter, but do not boil it—simply melt it. Skim the frothy top, and pour ofi" what may be called the clarified butter, leaving the milky sediment in the pan. Now you have got rid of what is often called the milk in the butter. Next take the stewpan, and having wiped it clean, pour back the clarified butter into it, and gradually mix in the dried and sifted flour: this vriW make a sort of pudding, which will all cling together, and will not—or ought not if proper care has been taken to follow these directions—cling to the stewpan. Keep this pudding over the fire, and keep stii-ring witli an iron or wooden spoon till it begins to change colour—i.e., it will gradually from being almost white turn to the colour of underdone pie-crust or the covers of those old-fashioned books which treat of mediaeval times. As soon as the colour begins to change, redouble the stirring, and occasionally remove the stewpan from the fire for a few minutes alto- gether, in order that the fiour should not be fried brown too quickly, for this is reaUy all that is being done. It will be found that the butter and flour will go on boiling m the stewpan for a long time after it has been removed from the fire—ten minutes or more : such is the power enamelled stewpans possess of retaining the heat. Have ready, close at hand, two slices out of the centre of a good-sized onion about a quarter of an mch thick. Keep stirring the butter and flour till it is of a light brown colour, not quite so brown as ripe com, then take the stewpan off" the fire throw m the two slices of onion, which have the double advantage of slackening the heat and of impartmg a rich flavour to the thickening. This will cause a ^^eat spluttering, and care should be taken to avoid a few little splashes on the backs of the hands. Keep stu-rmg the mixture till all bubbling has ceased, and this will be hunger than many would imagine. Pour ofi" what will now be a rich brown fltxid, which will assume the appearance of light chocolate when cold, into a deep dish- t jZ^Tl^J^I 7."/°°' " anything-for use. It will keep for months, and always at hand for thickenmg gravy. A good-sized table-spoonful of tlus mixtux-e^ cassell's cookehV. which IS called, as we said, brown thickening, or brown roux, will, when mixed with halt a pmt or a httlo more of good stock, transform it into good rich brown gravy which only requii-es a few additions, varying with what the gravy is iiitended tor, to complete it. If the gi-avy is intended for roast fowls, for instance, a little mushroom ketchup may be added; if for game, such a« a phea^t, a dessert, spoonful of sherry. The effect of brown thickening ia gravy is that not only is the gi-avy thickened and the raw flavour inseparable from butter and flour avoided but that the important element—colour—is introduced or assisted. You may us^ naif a dozen poimds of meat in making gravy, but if it comes up pale and thin It will be thought poor. The better the cooks the better do tliey understand the importance of appearances. Good thick mock-turtle soup owes its rich colour to this thickening, and it is because brown thickening is so rarely made, or the use of it so little understood in private houses, that home-made thick 'mock-tui-tle is so invariably poor, although the amount of real calves' head—and not pig's head—used in its preparation is probably double that used in an ordinary pastry- cook's. One great advantage of having brown thickening is, that it is possible to make enough at once to last a couple of months. Gravy is constantly being wanted; and in the end the cook will find time saved by having the thickening at hand ready made, instead of the plate, the dab of butter, the mixing, the uncertainty as to quantity, &c., which is their usual wont in melting a little butter and flour fresh for each occasion, the reason they melt it together being very proj^erly to avoid the constant stirring necessary to prevent the gravy or soup thickened turning lumpy. As, however, we are on the subject of thickening, by means of brown roux, soups, such as mock-turtle, gravies, &c., it may occur to some to inquire—How wotdd you thicken white soup, such as Palestine soup, oyster soup, &c. ; or. How would you thicken cheap Bechamel sauce where no cream is used 1 Our answer is—By using white roujx instead of brown. But then white roux or white thickening is not necessarily butter and flour just melted together, which, as we have said, has a tendency to give whatever is thickened a raw and ginielly flavour. The cook will have observed in making the brown thickening what a long time it took before it began to turn colour—in fact, her patience the first time was probably nearly exhausted, and she woxild very likely confess afterwards, flushed with triumph, that she began to think the " stuff" would never turn colour at all. White roux is simply, to use an Irish expression, brown thickening just before it gets brown; or, in other words, the grains of raw flour are cooked, but not coloured. The difference in flavour is as distinct as that of white pastry and dough. Now, it is evident that brown thickening is of no use when the substance thickened is required to be clear or bright. Brown gravy or thick mock-tm-tle soup are what may be called muddy, i.e., they don't pretend to be bright. There are, however, sauces, and even gravies, that should be thick, and at the same time bright and clear. Here, then, it is appai-ent that we must have some other thickening altogether. We will take as a si)ecimen that exceedingly nice-looking, and at the same time nice-tasting, sauce, called sauce Bordelaise, made from clai-et; and as of course any ordinary sound claret will do for the pui-pose, in the present day of cheap French wine the sauce is by no means so dear as it would have been a few years ago. To make Bordelaise sauce, you must first have some very good stock, perfectly bright and absolutely free from fat. Take say half a pint of such stock, and boil it down in a small saucepan, in which has been plaxied one bead of garlic,i»RINClPLES—GEAVV. and a very little piece of mace and cinnamon, with, just a suspicion of cayenne pepper. VVTien the stock, by means of being gently boiled, has evaporated away till there is only one-thii-d of it left, strain it very carefully off, and mix it with nearly a tumblerful of claret, and warm it up. It will of course be quite thin. Next take a little arrowroot, and mix it with a table-spoonful of cold water in a cup; stii* it, and mix it in gradually with the sauce, which must be just sim- mering on the fire. As soon as the sauce gets as thick as prepared gum or very thin treacle, it is done. The sauce should, however, be as bright as claret itself This sauce does for a variety of purposes, such as sweetbreads, boiled fish, or even cold meat may be cut in slices and warmed up in it. The advantage of aiTOwroot as a thickening is very marked in this sauce, as the brightness of the colour is not in the least destroyed, and the exact consistency liked can easily be obtaiaed by simply adding a little at a time, and keeping the sauce well stii-red and simmeriag. Kecollect, however, in using arrowroot as a means of thickening, always to mix it with cold water in a cup, and stir it up before taking any out, as the arrowi'oot will settle and cake at the bottom of the cup. Arrowi'oot is the best thickeniag when clearness is desirable; there are many kinds of gravies, however, which are necessarily clear, and yet which are ill-adapted to bear brown thickeniag. The gravy for ordinary hashed mutton is one. Colour can be im- parted by browning a little sliced onion with a little butter in a frying-pan, or by means of burnt brown sugar and water, or toasted bread. This gi-avy is best thickened with corn-flour or arrowroot, as mutton previously cooked is not savoury enough to bear the rich flavouring of brown thickening like roast goose, or duck, or fowl. Colouring from siigar is made by simply melting some coarse brown sugar in an old frying-pan till it looks like blood, and then pouring some boiling water on it, and stii'ring it till it is dissolved. Colourmg-balls for soups, gravies, &c., are sold in bottles, and are made in France from vegetables, but they vary considerably, and sometimes impart by no means an agi-eeable flavour to the soup or gravy. Used with caution, however, they are at times very valuable, as a little piece will go a long way; but I will defer going into the question of colouring soups until we enlarge on that most impoi-tant branch of cooking, viz., letting stock colour itself, by being reduced to a glaze in the making, which is far preferable to any artificial means. ^ There is one most important point which the cook should always bear in mind when brown thickening is used for either soup or gravy, and that is, re- moving the fat or butter which will always rise to the surface of the soup or gravy after boUing. Should this important point be omitted, the gravy or soup- ladle might possibly have a film of fat hanging from it similar to what we have ah-eady described as happening to the gravy from a roast joint when the cook has been careless in pouring off the grease. After the gravy or soup has been thickened, allow it to boil up, and then stand it on one side of the fire. In a very few mmutes a film of grease from the butter in the thickening will make Its appearance on the top, and requires removing; this must be repeated several times The safest method is to allow the gi-avy or soup to simmer gently, when It will gradually what is called - throw up the grease." If, then, when the liquid IS simmering, it be occasionally skimmed, aU fear of greasy gravy or soup is removed. The same process applies in using white thickening. Suppose you have thickened some Palestine soup, which is made from Jerusalem artichokes, allow the thickened soup to boil. The top will have a yeUow, oily appearanceoasbeLl's cookehY. even omng to the butter in the tliickeniiig. Tliis must be Bkimmed off; but after all has been skimmed, by allowing the soup to simmer gently some mwv probably will be thrown iip. Some cooks have an idea that if when they have made some soup they allow it to get cold, and then remove all the fat that cakes on the top, that it impossible for there to be any more fat in the soup at all Tliis is a great fallacy easily made manifest by allowing the soup, after the fat has been removed, to boil up again. On its getting cold a fresh cake of fat will appear if the soup was at all gi-easy. Soup made from pig's head will some- what astonish a young cook on this point. We have already explained that the chief reasons for preferring brown thickening to flour and butter melted together are the appearance and the flavour —i.e., the latter causes the gravy not merely to look gruelly but to taste so. It will of course often happen, notwithstanding that good care is taken by the cook to what we may call look ahead, that at times gravy will be wanted in a hurry, and yet no brown thickening is at hand for the purpose of converting the thin stock into thick gravy. In tliis small quantity can be easily made in a very short time, which, though not as a rule equal in quality to that made in the way we have described, will at any rate be far preferable to the ordinary plain butter and flour. The method is simply to melt suflB.cient butter and flour together in a saucer, place the saucer in the oven, and occasionally stir it; the flour soon becomes baked, which avoids the grueUy taste; next, the flour soon becomes of a light fawn colour at the top, and after the saucer has been stirred a few times the whole qiiantity will assume the colour required. Indeed, some persons make brown thickening in large quantities in a pie-dish, and place it in the oven, taking it out at times, and stirring it. The stewpan is, however, we think, a far preferable method. We have in speaking of gravies confined our attention almost entirely to the thickening, which, as we have pointed out, is the chief point on which cooks break down. Of coiu*se, the exact consistency to which gravy must be brought is another important point which must be left entii*ely to the cook's judgment. The advanttige of having brown thickening ready is that only small quantities need be added at a time. The cook, consequently, has only to exercise a little patience, i.e., to stir the thickening well in, see that it is all dissolved and that the gi'avy boils gently, to avoid the common but unpardonable faidt of having the gravy too thick. Good brown gravy should be of the consistency of cream at the outside, and never thicker, if indeed so thick. It would be almost impossible to describe all the various methods of flavouring gravies in order to suit them to the dishes with which they are served, but we may mention here that there is perhaps no method of bringing out and at the same time adding to the flavour of good gi-avy equal to that of adding at the last moment a good slice of raw lean ham; and when we say lean we mean a slice absolutely destitute of fat. Another very good addition to gravy is part of the pulp of a fresh ripe tomato, especially when the gravy is intended for some dish with which tomato sauce would not be inapplicable, such as roast fowl When a fresh tomato cannot be obtained, a spoonful of tomato sauce ■s\ill answer just as well. We would, however, particularly caution cooks against the indiscrimi- nate use of Worcester sauce, as this particidar sauce is so powerful that when used for gravy, unless added with the greatest caution, it is apt to overpower the flavour of everything else. Again, the stewpan or small saucepan used for warming up the gravy can be rtibbed with a bead of garlic when the flavour of this latt«r some- ■wLat strong flavouring is not objected totRlisClPLES—STOCK. X2LV STOCK. In describing the general principles upon which all good cooking depends, it will be seen that we have dwelt at some length on thickening, and have described the proper method of making brown thickening, or brown roux, and white thickening, or white roux. We will next proceed to discuss the proper method of preparing stock, and the two chief stock sauces, viz., white sauce and brown sauce, which requii-e in their composition the white roux and brown roux, respectively. It may possibly be thought that a description of the proper method of making stock should have preceded the description of the tliickening ; bear in mind, however, that in preparing any dinner, the thickening should be made before the stock, and also, tha/ whereas ° there is but one method to be pursued in making thickening, thert are necessarily many different ways of preparing stock. We have purposely, there- fore, impressed upon our readers the great importance of making thickening in the way we have described, as upon it will, to a very great extent, depend the whole character of the soups, gravies, sauces, &c., the recipes for which are given in the present work. We will, therefore, presume the cook to have at any rate mastered this part of the subject before we proceed to discuss such an extremely important branch of cooking as stock. Stock is necessarily a branch of cookery approached by every one with the slightest pretension to any knowledge of the art with a certain amount of preconceived opinions. We would, by way of preface, however, remind our readers that the better the cooks, probably the more willing will they be to admit that they have much to learn. Cooking in its higher branches is a science, and the most scientific cook that ever served up a Parisian banquet could probably learn something new from the ignorant savage who chews strange herbs to help him to digest the meat that his intellect has not sufficiently expanded to enable him to cook. Still the instinct of the animal, rather than the reason of the man, has advanced him at least one step towai'ds a higher civilisation, and in his knowledge of the herbs he has something to impart that wise men would gladly learn. There is an old story that will, however, bear oft repeating, of one who, on his death-bed, in thinking over the discoveries of science—discoveries that he himself had done more than any in ages past or present to advance—observed, that after all he felt like a child who had been picking up pebbles on the shore of the vast ocean of knowledge. It is in such a spirit that all should approach a subject such as cooking—none so good as not to be able to learn. But we must commence our stock, and as it is obvious that the method of preparing stock for say the Grand Hotel, and for a family consisting of only two, must be widely different, we will jfirst describe how to make stock in large quantities. First, common stock, then the two principal stock sauces, brown and white, the first being used to make the other two. As, however, we are going to mention somewhat large and startling quantities, we would remind you that it is no greater extravagance to use 100 pounds weight of meat in making stock for 500 persons, than it would be to use the very moderate amount of two povmds of meat for a dinner of ten persons. In some large foreign hotels, where 700 pei-sons sit down daily to the table d'hote, the preparation of stock, in quantities which, forgetting this fact, would appear ridiculous, becomes an every-day necessity. Besides, it is easier to learn principles from the wholesale preparation of any article than from the preparation of such small quantities, thatxxvi cassell's cookery. often little apparently unimportant matters of detail are omitted. In preparing stock therelore, for a very large number of persons, we will supixjse the following quantity ot perfectly fresh meat to have been sent into the larder :—Forty pound« of gravy- beef, forty pounds of leg of beef, and knuckles of veal and two legs of white veal weighing probably about forty pounds. Cut away the meat from the bones, taking care to reserve those pieces of the veal next the udder that are suitable for fricandeau, ^c, as well as the best parts of the veal, to be u^ed as afterwards directed. Then break up the bones small, and put them with all the trimmings of the veal into a large stock-pot, with the remainder of the meat, which should be cut up, and to which may be added a few turnips, carrots, celery, and leeks; add also a little salt, but very little, and do not put any herbs or spices in by way of flavour- ing. The stock-pot should be filled up with cold water, and put on the fire to boil, very gently, for about seven or eight hours. As soon as the stock-pot boils up, or, rather, as soon as it begins to simmer, it should be carefully skimmed 3 the stock-pot should be kept well closed the whole time, except when it is necessary to cake off the lid, for the purpose of skimming. Avoid having too fierce a fire, as should the stock boil up furiously, part of the scum which ought to rise gently, and then be removed, will be dissolved, and the consequence will be that there will be considerable difficulty in obtaining the stock clear. After the stock has simmered for the time we have mentioned it should be strained through a large cloth or sieve into basins, and put by for use, all the fat being removed when cold. It may here be advisable to look, in a general way, at what is done to make ordinary stock. It is simply bones of beef and veal broken up, and placed with the few vegetables mentioned, and a considerable quantity of gravy-beef and veal, for only the best pieces of the latter should be reserved, and the whole gently simmered for some hours, care, as we have said, being taken to skim at intervals, and to avoid fast boiling. What probably will at once excite the attention of the ordinary cook is the absence of flavouring, but this is the very point we would have them bear in mind. They too often in making stock simply make a highly-seasoned soup. Good stock should not be seasoned, as it may be wanted for a variety of pin-poses where seasoning would be objectionable. Recollect, soup is made from stock by adding flavouring, &c., to the stock; when, therefore, it is possible, make the stock as simple as possible, and add to it afterwards what is considered necessary, which, of course, will depend upon the nature of the soup or gravy that has to be made. We will now proceed to describe how brown sauce and white sauce is to be made in what we may call wholesale quantities. Take two large copper stewpans, and see that they are perfectly well tinned. Butter the bottom of each, and cover them with slices of thin lean ham, then add , the veal previously saved, placing half in each stewpan, and put in one stewpan the carcases of some wild rabbits, the best part of the meat of the rabbit being reserved for some entries, and in the other stewpan an old hen or the carcases of some fowls. Tho stewpan in which the rabbits have been placed is intended for the brown sauce, and the one in which the fowl has been placed for the white sauce. Pour m sufficient of the stock previously made to cover the meat, and place the two stewjians on the fire, of course covered, to boil quickhj. We now have to subject the contents of these two stewpans to a process very similar to the brown and white roux, viz., we have to allow one to cook till it turns a bright golden colour, and we have to remove the other from the fire just before it begins to alter in appearance. First, the brown sauce : what is necessary is to allow it to boil away till it becomesPRINCIPLES—STOCK. 3tXVU a soi-t of gum, ^.hich wUl gradually turn a beautiful reddxsh-Wn; the great difficulty being for the cook to know when to slacken the heat of the fii-e If the stewpan be allowed to remain on the fire too long, the glaze, for such is the stock when boiled down to a gummy consistency called, wHl become burnt and the flavour of the stock very much destroyed. On the other hand, if the cook does not allow the stewpan to remain on the fire long enough, the proper colour wHl not be obtained, and the result wHl be that in order to attain that colour recourse wiU be had to colouring of some kind or another, which should always be avoided if possible. . The cook consequently must carefully watch, and as soon as the glaze begins to turn colour must slacken the heat, and aUow the glaze to gradually deepen in colour tm it has that reddish-brown appearance we have described; then fill up the stewpan with some common stock, and add to it a couple of onions in which a few cloves have been stuck, a carrot, a small piece of mace, some parsley, gi-een onions, a bay-leaf, and a little thyme. Let all this simmer gently, taking care to skim it from time to time after gently boiling for about two hours, strain the whole through a sieve, and put it by for use, removing every particle of fat when the stock has got cold. The white sauce being treated and added to in exactly a similar manner, with the one exception that the glaze is not allowed to turn colour. Thus, the sauces should be quite clear, though it will often happen that perfect clearness has not been attained; the clearing process we will consequently describe by-and-by. Sauces are, however, seldom required bright and liquid ; the broviai roux and white roux must consequently be added respectively to the brown sauce and white sauce to render them the requisite thickness. Having added the roux to each in sufficient quantity to obtain the desired consistency, recollect to allow them to boil a sufficient time for the butter contained in the roux to be thrown up, and removed by skimming. Both sauces can then be sent through a tamis or cloth, and put by for use, this last process rendering them smooth and more velvety in appearance. We may add before going further that one very good method of ascertaining when the glaze is ready for filling up is to stick a knife in it, and give it a twirl; should the glaze adhere to the knife, and be in that state that it can be rolled up into a ball in the hands without sticking to the fingers, and at the same time be of the desired colour, it shows that it is sufficiently advanced for the stock to be added. Now, in the preparation of all large dinners where a great variety of dishes have to be prepared, it would be impossible even to commence until a considerable quantity of brown sauce and white sauce are ready made and put by for use. In French works on cookery this brown sauce we have described is called sauce e»pagnole, and the white sauce veloute. Cooks will readily see that in cases where, perhaps, twelve or more different kinds of entries have to be made, what ai. enormous saving of time it is to have two such rich sauces ready at hand. Indeed, in all works on cookery it will often be found that directions are given as follows:—Add a ladleful of brown sauce. It is evident that it would be impossible for the cook to com- mence to make, and go through the process of making, brown sauce for the sake of one ladleful. We have described how to make ordinary stock, and brown and white gravy, both thick and thin, from raw meat, but it should be borne in mind that in all large establishments, as well as in small private houses, there is much left of cooked meat, bones, carcfuses of fowls and game, and which materially help to fill up the stock- pot. The bones of large joints, such as sirloin of beef, or haunch of mutton, oughtXxviii cassell's cookery. never to be thrown away, but should bo added to the raw bones in the 8tock-r>ot. Indeed, meat that has been roasted materially helps to increase the flavour of good stock. When, therefore, we recommend carcases to be added, such as rabbits, fowls, 6ui., it is assumed that such carcases have been at any rate partially cooked, and tlie best part of the meat removed for other purposes. In cases, however, where an old hen or a very old bird, such as a partridge, evidently too tough to be eaten, is added, it i« always best to partially roast it before placing it in the stock-pot An old hen tliat has been a most serviceable bird in its day, when it ceases to lay eggs, hi, an a rule, far too tough for any purpose save that of the stock-pot; and old bii-ds like this, that make the best soup, can sometimes be bought as low as Is. or Is. 6d. a-piece. In small houses, cooks should endeavour to do on a small scale what we have shown is done in great hotels on a large scale. First, the common stock, made from any bones and pieces of cooked meat left, should be put on with some gravy-beef and knuckle of veal, the best part of the meat of the veal being cut off to use in transforming the common stock into good soup or gravy. In choosing meat for making stock it will always be found best to pick out the very freshest-killed possible, and bear in mind that meat should never be washed befoi-e it is used. In fact, that part of the meat which contains the greatest amoimt of real flavour is soluble in cold water; consequently, meat that has been washed would never make such good stock as meat that had not. When stock has been made from fresh meat free from fat, and when there has been no great preponderance of bones, if care has been taken—first, that the stock did not boil too furiously; secondly, that the stock was strained off carefully and through a fine cloth—it will generally be found that the stock will be clear enough for all ordinary purposes. Sometimes, however, it will be found that, notwithstanding every precaution, the stock will present a cloudy appearance; or again, sometimes it may be wished that the stock should be not merely clear, but absolutely bright. When such is the case, the best method of clearing stock is as follows :—We will suppose the quantity of stock required to be cleared to be two quarts. Take the whites of two eggs separated from the yolks, and be very careful that no tinge even of yolk be with them. Place the^e two whites in a basin, breaking up and adding the egg-shells if clean, and add nearly a tumblerful of cold water, and mix it well up till the whole froths on the top, then pour this into the saucepan or vessel in which the stock is, which ought not, however, to be boiling at the time. Mix it all well up, and place the saucepan on the fire to boU. While it gently boils, skim it thoroughly, then stir it all up again, let it stand some little time, and then strain it throxigh a fine cloth, or, better stHl, a thick flannel jelly-bag. By this means quite cloudy stock can be rendered as bright as sherry, only bear in mind that every particle of fat should first be removed from the stock. We will now proceed to discuss the best method of making stock Asdthout the use of fresh meat at all. It should be borne in mind that in the present day the prices of provisions have so much increased, and also show such an upward tendency, that it is very desirable for every family throughout the countiy to do their utmost to save consumption of meat, thereby doing what little they can towards rendermg meat cheaper to others who may not be possessed of so much wealth as themselves. Where the bones of joints that are left are thrown away and given to dogs, and fresh meat bouglit in quantities for making soup, it is evident that a large amount of nutritivePEINCIPLES—STOCK. matter is absolutely wasted, which under other management would suppoi-t the life of many stai'ving pei-sons. We will now take the very common case of a leg of mutton bone bemg lett, and will describe how to turn it into stock, though at the same time we must, of coui-se, admit that the result would not be equal to the stock made from the fresh oravy-beef and veal. Fii-st, take the leg of mutton bone and chop it up into small pieces with a hatchet, and place these bones in a saucepan in cold water, with a good handful of fresh gi^een parsley, a good large onion in which two or three cloves have been stuck, a carrot, or two sm'all''carrots, one turnip, if young—but do not put in any in very hot weather, or when they are old and swee1>—one head of celery, or, if no celery is in season, a little celery-seed (about one-third of a salt-spoonful, or about enough to cover a three- penny piece), a small pinch of thyme, a little cayenne pepper, and a little salt; also, if they can be obtained, a couple of leeks. Let all this simmer gently for three or four hours, and then strain it off into a large basin. "We ai-e supposing sufficient water to have been added to make the quantity when strained off about two quarts. Then add to this a good tea-spoonful of extract of meat; this will not merely have the effect of making the stock richer and more nutritious, but will also very materially assist the colour, as the leg of mutton bone was not in itself sufficient to enable the cook to boil down the stock to a glaze, and to obtain a colour by that means. By this method an exceedingly palatable and nice stock is obtained, that can be thickened for gravy with brown thickening, or can have vaiious ingredients added to it, such as young vegetables cut up, macaroni, vermicelli, &c., to transform it into excellent soup. Good stock, when it is cold, should form a jelly, owing to the presence of the gelatine in the meat or the bones used; indeed, stock made from bones alone will often be found to be a harder jelly than stock made from meat alone, owing to the fact that bones contain a great quantity of gelatine. Now, in making stock, we have refeiTcd to extract of meat—one of the most useful of modern inventions—that has not only assisted the cook but the doctor. Good beef-tea is in reality a very plain stock made from gravy-beef, without the assistance of the few herbs we have named. Beef-tea when cold, if properly made, is, like good stock, a firm jelly- Of late years, extract of meat has been largely used as a substitute for gravy- beef, as a quick method of making beef-tea where the absence of meat, or lack of time, have rendered its substitution desirable. It is not our province to discuss the respective merits of beef-tea made from meat, and that made from its extract. Medical men, however, are unanimous in their opinion that where the former cannot be obtained, the latter is a most valuable substitute. We will, however, show how stock can be made quickly—say, at a quarter of an hour's notice—without using not only gravy-beef but bones. We would first remind our readers that extract of meat when dissolved in water is a thin liquid, and however great the quantity of extract used, the mixture exhibits^ no symptoms of becoming a jelly. This is simply owing to the absence of gelatine. We will now take the extremely common case of a little stock being required at almost a moment's notice to make a little soup. For instance, an unexpected stranger has arrived, when, unfortunately, the mistress of the house feels conscious that the dinner happens to be what is called a made-up one. UnderXXX oarsell's cookery. these circumstances the cook who cau improvise an extra dish or two is a valual.le one; but as we are speaking at present on the subject of stock, we will confine our directions to tlie instantaneous manufacture of that necessaiy basis of all culinary operations. We will suppose the house, or at any rate an adjacent grocer's, to contain some extract of meat and some gelatine. Most houses likewise have at hiuul a few onions and some parsley. Let the cook pi-oceed as follows :—Take an onion, and having peeled and split it in two, stick two or three cloves in it, and place it in a saucepan of water with a good bunch of parsley, a little salt and cayenne pepper, and a small quantity of gelatine—about a quarter of one of those little j^ackets generally sold by grocers for making jeliy—let aU this boil tUl the gelatine is dissolved, and then strain it off into a basin, taking care in straining it to press the onion and parsley so as to squeeze as much as possible the goodness out of them. If any celery-seed happens to have been in the house, a very little may have been added, only care should be taken not to put too much in, as the flavour is exceedingly strong. Having then strained off this liquid, add to it about a tea-spoonful of extract of meat, and stir it all up till the extract is dissolved ; after which taste it as often as the addition of extract of meat entails the addition of more salt, and as extract of. meat unfortunately varies both in flavour and goodness, it is difficult to give any exact quantities to be used. We now have a very fair stock, which indeed may be sent up as soup just as it is. It is, of course, perfectly pure from grease, and should be, if the gelatine be good, perfectly bright; the stock is, however, by no means equal in flavour to that made from meat, and consequently a good cook would, if possible, take advantage of anything in her possession to impart a little additional flavour. Now, for this purpose, nothing is better then a few fresh tarragon- leaves, or, if fresh tarragon-leaves cannot be obtained, a very small pinch of dried tarragon can be put in with the parsley, which will have the effect of imparting the flavour; but it should be strained off with the onion, &c., whereas the fi-esh tarragon may be served up in the soup. Stock thus made can, of course, have vermicelli or anything else added to it should a perfectly plain soup not be wished. There are, however, a number of persons who have the mistaken notion that a thin soup is of necessity poor. If by chance you are aware of their ignorance it is as well to remind the cook to thicken the soup, which can be done as previously directed in a veiy few moments by boiling in it a little arrowroot, mixed up and well stu-red in a little cold water. When this is done, be careful not to ovei'-thicken the soup, or the deception becomes too apparent; enough arrowroot should be added to give the soup an appearance of thin prepared gum in consistency. Very often in private houses stock is made from the water in which mutton has been boiled. Now, of course, mutton will not make by any means the same quality of stock that beef or veal will, and consequently stock made from mutton shoidd, when possible, be reserved for certain kinds of soup, such as oyster soup; but we will refer to this subject more fully when we come to speak on soups in general, and will now conclude our remarks on stock with general directions for the removal of fat and grease, which is very often a great difficulty with young and inexperienced cooks. First, cooks should bear in mind that there are different kinds of grease—one hard, the removal of which gives comparatively little trouble ; another soft, and held in solution by the stock, which is far more difficult to remove. To illustrate what we mean, we will contrast the stock made, say from boiling a leg of mutton, and that made by boiling a pig's head. If both are allowed to get cold, the muttonPRINCIPLES--STOCK. xxxi stock will be found to be covered with a coating of fat as hard almost as wax, and the brotli underneath will, when this fat has been removed, be entirely free from gi-ease Not so, however, the other; tho pork stock will likewise be found to be covered with fat, not so hard; but when that has been removed the stock itself will still be very greasy. Again, stock made from bones containing gristle and soft fat, is often gi-easy, even after it has got cold; so, too, with the liquor in which bacon or ham has-been boiled, though nothing can be better than lean ham to flavour stock. When lean and fat is mixed together, the stock becomes often so saturated with grease as to be almost useless. When, therefore, stock is in this state, viz., that it holds fat in solution, the only method by which the fat can be got rid of is by placing the stock on the tire, and allowing it to simmer gently; wMle it is simmering the cook should from time to time carefully skim it. The longer this process is continued the freer will the stock be from fat. When butter has been in any way mixed with stock or soup, as in the case of using the brown or white thickening, this is the only method by which it can be got rid of again. In fact, cooks would do well to disabuse their minds of the fallacy that if stock is allowed to get cold the fat hardens on the top, and if this be removed that consequently it is impossible for a pai-ticle of fat to remain. Such is not the case, and as one fact is worthy fifty arguments we should recommend them to try the simple experiment, when they get a somewhat greasy stock, of letting it get cold, removing all the fat, and then putting on the stock to boil again for, say, an hour. They will find that when the stock gets cold for the second time, that there will be almost as much fat settle on the surface as before. Another important little art in which good cooks ought to excel is the removal of gi'ease from small quantities of stock or gravy without letting it get cold, and without going through that somewhat laborious and wasteful process when only small quantities have to be dealt with—of skimming. Some cooks have a great knack of blowing the grease ofi* stock. Recollect, we do not recommend the custom, but simply refer to it; the stock or gravy is poured out into a small basin, so that the surface of the stock is nearly on a level with the edge of the basin. In a very few minutes the grease will rise to the top, looking like oil floating on the surface. By blowing gently, this oil can be driven to one side of the basin, and by tilting the basin and holding it, say over the sink, by allowing a little to be blown over the edge, in a very short time all the grease can be got rid of with, comparatively speaking, a very small sacrifice of stock. The method is ingenious, and veiy often resoi-ted to by cooks. The objection is the natural one against blowing, many objecting to it on account of its not being an altogether cleanly custom. A better and perfectly unobjectionable plan is using blotting-paper, or, indeed, any rather rough kind of paper, for the purpose. Of course, if there is any very large quantity of grease floating on the surface the best part of it must be removed by skimming; as long as there is plenty of gi'ease, then skimming is easy enough, but it is when the stock gets down to that state in which it is not covered with large pools of fat, so to speak, as large as the bowl of a spoon, but is dotted over with little round specks of fat ranging in size from a pea to a pin's head. When the stock has got into this state, by continuous skimming the stock is wasted, and very little impres- sion is made on the grease. Now, what is wanted is to remove the surface only. Get, therefore, a piece of white blotting-paper, or even a clean piece of common brown paper, and let this just touch the surface, the grease wiU adhere to the paper, and^^^^ cassell's cookery. using a fev pieces of dry paper one after the other, the whole of the gro.ime can be i-emoved. This mctliod of removing fat wUl be found to be particularly useful in preparing beef-tea for invalids. Beef-tea is often wanted in a hurry, and there is probably no time to allow it to got cold, yet it is of the gi-eatest importance for every particle of fat to bo removed, for nothing looks so bad as to see beef-tea by the bedside of a sick person covered with wafers of fat. The cook should consider such a circumstance as a positive disgrace. One very important point in reference to stock, soups, gravies, <fec,, is their preservation. Of course in cold frosty weather stock will keep almost for any time, but in hot weather stock is veiy apt to turn sour or high. Suppose you leave some stock in the larder over night a firm jelly, and the weather say is very warm; if in the morning when you come down you find it has altered in appearance, and instead of being a jelly it looks watery in some parts and lumpy in others, you may rest assured that the stock has turned bad. There is, however, one method by which stock can be preserved far longer than it otherwise would be, and that is by being boiled up afresh every day. In winter this is not necessary, but in summer should any stock, soup, or gravy be left, and a day pass without its being wanted, the cook should always put it in a saucepan, boil it up, and then place it in a fresh clean basin, and when cold, or nearly so, put it back in the larder or safe where it is generally kept. I say when it is nearly cold advisedly, for cooks should always avoid putting hot stock or soup in the larder where other things are kept. In the first place, the heat tends to raise the tem- perature of the larder, and still worse, the steam that rises from the hot stock has a tendency to make the larder foul, besides probably affecting the flavour of some of the other dishes. Before leaving the subject of stock there is one more kind to which we would refer, and that is fish stock. Few persons are aware how exceedingly nutritious a stock can be made from fish. For instance, fi-om a turbot. Very often the water in which a large turbot has been boiled when it gets cold is firm jelly. In preparing fish stock as a basis for fish soups of various kinds, it will be found best, if possible, to have half the fish from which the stock is made fresh-water fish and half sea-fish. In preparing the stock the greatest attention should be paid to the skimming. Fish contains a large quantity of albumen, which, being disengaged, coagulates and rises to the surface, carrying with it many of the little impurities of the fish; this shovdd be skimmed off as it rises. In straining off the stock after the fish has been removed, for in almost every instance of making fish stock the fish Is taken out and eaten separately, care should be taken not to empty the fish- iettle down to its dregs. After the stock has been strained off it should be put on again to boil partly away, an onion with three or four cloves in it and a little parsley being added, some salt, of course, having been put in with the fish. The stock should also have added to it an anchovy, pounded thoroughly in some butter; this should be added to the stock and dissolved in it; the anchoA-y having an extraordinary effect in bringing out the flavour. Should there be any oil, for fishes do not give off grease, it should be carefully taken off. If cod- fish is part of the fish used for making the stock, the cod's liver should be boiled separately, as that gives off a very large quantity of oil, cod-liver oil, in fact, which would have the effect of rendering the stock exceedingly disagreeable. Recollect, however, that fish stock, especially in hot weather, will not keep.PRINCIPLES—SOUP. X5cxm SOUP. We now come to consider soups in general, and we will divide them into three classes—clear, thick, and purees. Clear soups are, of course, as the word implies, bright as well as thin; thick soup is generally of the consistency of ordinary cream, or not quite so thick, and is, of course, not transparent. By a pur6e we do not necessai-ily mean a soup of a thicker consistency than ordinary thick soup, but we wovdd distinguish between thick soups and pxirees as follows:—A thick soup owes its consistency to the addition of some ai-tificial thickening, such as brown roux, aiTowroot, &c.; a puree owes its consistency to the fact that the ingredients have been rubbed tluough a tamis or a wire sieve. This latter distinction is of the utmost importance. Unfoi-tunately, we have no English word that conveys exactly the same idea as the French word puree, and consequently we are often obliged to use the word soup where the word puree would convey a better meaning. For instance, pea-soup should really be called piiree of peas 3 Palestine soup, pur^e of artichokes. As we have already described how to make good strong stock, and also how to clear it, our remarks with regard to clear soup must be almost entirely confined to the ingredients that are added to the stock, and give rise to the various names by which soups are distinguished. For instance, vermicelli soup is simply vermicelli boiled in stock, maccaroni soup is maccaroni boiled in stock. The best method of preparing these and all soups will be found under the proper headings in another pait of the present work; but I would remind cooks of the general principle to be observed in adding these ingredients to stock, and that is, cleanliness. Whenever maccaroni, vermicelli, pearl-barley, &c., have to be added to soup, they should invariably be at any rate partially boiled in plain water first, in order that the outside dirty part may be washed off by being dissolved. To illustrate the importance of this point, I would mention that very common invalid beverage called barley-water. How many of my readers are there but can call to mind drinking barley-water from a tumbler by their bedside, and being disgusted with a dirty sediment at the bottom of the glass 1 Now, is the cook to blame for this 1 Undoubtedly. Had she been properly instructed, she would have partially boiled the barley, and thrown away the first water, and then have placed the clean-washed barley, with its dirty film removed by being dissolved, into fresh boiling water. It is of no use to wa^h vermicelli, maccaroni, barley, &c., m cold water to clean it, it must be boiled; and in the case of maccaroni of all kmds and vermicelli it is best to boil it in plain water tHI it is tender, and then add It to the stock. Of course, in the case of an ingredient like barley where it is added to broth to increase its nourishment, it should only be boHed sufficiently lon<^ to ensure all the outside being dissolved, so that perfect cleanliness may be obtained'' How many cooks are there who can call to mind the follo^ving misadventure with the soup ! They have got the stock as bright as sheny, they have added the vermicelli, and it has turned, not thick, but cloudy-the reason being that they did not boil the vermicelli in water separately. We next come to that very lar^e variety of soups that contain vegetables, the best one to take as a type of the cli perhaps being spring soup. Spring soup is simply a number of vegetables boiled in «tock; such vegetables a„s turnips, celery, carrots, small spinng onions, cauliflowei^ asparagxis tops, pen peas, Ac. Now when we come to speak generally on the principles of boiling vegetables, we shall have to explain the\mport...ce of leav n, plenty of room for the ste.:u to escape, in order to ens^^e u good colour S Ijttko.—3JCXXIV OASStSLL's COOKEllY. attained. These vegetables, therefore, should not be thrown into the stock direct but into boiling water first. By tliia means, besides perfect cleanliness being guaranteed, the vegetables wDl look brighter than they otherwise would do ; and we all know the diflerence between soup in which the caiTot is a bright red and the peas a bright gi-een, and soup in which the former is a dii-ty brown and the latter a dirty yellow. I would here, in passing, observe that many English cooks imagine that spring soup and J ulienne soup are the same thing. In properly-made Julienne soup the vegetables should be first stewed in a little butter in a stewpan till they begin to slightly turn colour, or, in other words, till they just begin to brown ; then the stock is added, as well as a little sugar. Owing to this difference in the ■ preparation, the flavour is materially altered—of course the butter is thrown up by boiling and removed by skimming. We will next discuss that exceedingly delicious Boup kno^vn as clear mock turtle. An excellent receipt is given in its proper place, 'I would, however, remind the cook of the importance in making clear mock turtle of having the flavouring herbs in proper proportions. Sweet basil should form quite one-third of the whole quantity, and marjoram, lemon-thyme, and winter savoury should make up the other two-thirds. We will suppose, of course, that as a rule calf's head is used to make the soup, though a very excellent imitation can be made by using pig's head instead. Cayenne pepper should also be used, and not black. But we will not enter into the whole details of soup making which, as we have said, will be found elsewhere, but will say a few words on the genex*al principles to be remembered when adding wine to soups. A very rich, glutinous soup like mock turtle, or of coui'se still more like real turtle, will bear a large quantity of wine. Madeira is by far the best, but good sherry will answer the same purpose. And here I would strongly appeal to the mistress of the house against the folly of using, not cheap sherry, but some extraordinary compound that is not sherry at all, for cooking purposes. Bad sherry will no more make good soups or jellies than bad eggs will make good puddings or custards. We shall have to speak of this latter point in another place, but will keep to the sherry. Suppose you have been making some excellent soup from the half of a calf's head, or from some dried turtle flesh, which makes such splendid soup if you only have the patience to soak the flesh for two or three days, and boil it steadily for two more. Why should you spoil this soup—absolutely spoU it—for the sake of saving the diff"erence between the price of half a pint of good sherry and half a pint of some decoction sold under the same name 1 There is a good old saying that is most appropriate—" It is no use spoiling the ship for the sake of a ha'porth of tar." Do not let me be misunderstood on tliis point. I do not for one moment mean^ that it is necessary to have old-bottled wine or wine of any pai-ticularly good vintage,' but what I mean is, it must be Avine, and what I maintain is, that too often what is put in soups is not wine at all. The best sherry for the purpose is golden sherry, and not a pale dry wine. Since the vineyards at Madeira have recovered, it is quite possible to get ache^ip rich full wine, not fit to drink in fact at present, but nevertheless the very thuig for soiip. I should be glad if some of my readers would try the following experiment :— Have some good clear mock turtle soup made; taste it before the wine is put to it suppose the quantity to be three quarts. Add a tumblerful of madeira, and tnen taste, and let them ask themselves whether the ditierence in the flavoui- is not weU worth the money^PRINCIPLES—SOUP. XX3fV There ai-e several soups that wiU beai', and be very much improved by, the addition of sherry, and we would mention soup made from calves' feet or ox-feet, rdblet soup and soup made from any kind of game. A very good rough test of the value of adding sheriy to mock-turtle soup is a pastrycook's. Let any one order a basiii of soup and a glass of sheny for lunch, and add a table-spoonful of the sherry to the soup—the lesson learnt will be worth the probable eighteen-pence paid Wliile on the subject of adding wine to soups I would mention hai-e soup, which is not reaUy, or should not be, a thick soup, though of course it could not be called clear. Hare soup requires port wine, and not sherry, and of course the same observations that applied to sherry apply to the port. If you cannot afford or obtain real port, don't put in any bad wine to spoil the hare. In France Burgundy is used for dressing hare; but in England the imitation port is, if anything, a more honible compound than the imitation sherry. What the effect of adding this compoimd to hare soup would be I cannot say, beyond that it would be as certain to spoil it as an equal quantity of blacking would. Hare will bear a large quantity of port wine. One of the gi-eatest living cooks recom- mends half a bottle of port wine to one single hare. This is extravagant; but there is no doubt that the soup would be all the better for it. I would here mention the fact that whenever port \vine is used in cooking, a few cloves, a very little piece of cinnamon, and a little lemon-juice may always be added with advantage. The great secret of success in making good hare soup is rubbing the meat weU through a tamis, or wire sieve. The best part of the meat should of course be kept to add to the soup after it is made, while all the bones, &c., should be well stewed, and after the bones, which have been boiled till they are dry and white, have been taken out, all the meat and celery with which they have been boiled should be rubbed through a wire sieve with a wooden spoon. Hare soup requires no thickening. Mulligatawny soup is another not exactly thick soup, and yet not a pur^e, but a mixture of the two that we may here allude to, though perhaps a little out of its proper place. Here again the secret of success is patience in rubbing the fried onion, apples, &c., through the tamis; but we will speak of the tamis more fully when we come to " Purees." There is one little point in which mul- ligatawny soup differs from others, and that is, it requires sour apples in its composition. Of course apples, especially sour ones, cannot always be obtained in spring. There are few points in which a knowledge of the principles of cookery becomes more beneficial than when such knowledge enables the cook to substitute one ingredient for another. Ingenuity on the part of the cook on this point is a cinicial test of excellence. Suppose the time of year is such that no apples can be obtained, the probability is that young green gooseberries ai-e in season; by substituting a few of these for the apples, that peculiar twang in good curry or good mulligatawny given by the apples can be obtained. With regard to thick soups in general, little need be said beyond that, as a rule, the only difference is the addition of brown or white roux. We must, however, again remind our readers, as we have done before, almost ad nauseam. of allowing the tjoup to boil and throw up the butter, which must be removed by skimming. Soups thickened by arrowroot, corn-flour, plain flour-and-water, do not require tliis skimming. The common mistake into which inexperienced cooks fall in making thick soup is making it too thick. By adding too much brown roux tlie flavour ox the soup itself is overpowered. Again, in using arrow-oasseLl'b cookery. xxxvi con- root for thickening, if care be not exercised the soup will be rendered the o. Bistency of a pudding rather than a soup. Recollect, in thickening soups, gi-avies, &c, the full efect of the thickening added is not felt till the soup or gravy has boiled up for a minute or two; what, therefore, is most requisite is that the cook should possess that quality which of all others I regard as a sine qud vion for success, viz., patience; and, to proceed to purges, I will commence with a remark that sounds like a proverb, viz., Patience makes the pur6e. I douljt if of all the trying ordeals a good cook has to undergo througliout the year, whether any is so trying as that of standing over a large wire sieve, wooden spoon in liand, endeavouring to coax the contents through. Let cooks, however, rest assured that this is not labour spent in vain. Take, for example, really good Palestine soup. We will suppose the artichokes, say a quarter of a peck, to have simmered and got soft in a couple of oimces of butter, and that proper care has been taken to prevent them getting brown. "We will then suppose them to have been boiled gently in say a quai-t of good strong white stock, and a bay-leaf added to improve theii- flavour. Now the whole must be rubbed through a tamis, or wii-e sieve, otherwise the soup will be poor. However, rub it through, and add half a pint of boiling cream, and you will have a soup that you need not be ashamed to set before the most particular person in the world. By-the-by, if the artichokes— Jerusalem ones, of course—are not very young, add a Kttle pounded white sugar to the soup at the finish. Carrot soup, turnip soup, vegetable-marrow soup, chestnut soup, pea soup, gi'een- pea soup, potato soup, asparagus soup, &c. &c., are all alike in one i-espect, and that is, tlae one secret of the soup being good is the amount of perseverance dis- played in rubbing the ingredients tkrough the tamis. In rubbing these ingredients through, the cook wUl often find it advisable to scrape the tamis or wii-e sieve underneath, as the puree will cling to the bottom of the sieve after being worked through it with the spoon. It will also be necessary from time to time to moisten the contents of the sieve with some of the liquid part of the stock that has run through it. However, much allowance should be made for women cooks, who perhaps, un- assisted by a kitchen-maid, have to prepare soups of this description. A consider- able amount of time must necessarily be spent, and a considerable amoimt of strength expended, in order to obtain a satisfactory result. In large kitchens, where a man cook supex-intends, and perhaps two or three ;y oung men assist, there is, of coui-se, no difficulty; but where only a woman unassisted has to manage the whole dinner, it should be the duty of the mistress to avoid ordering, as is often done through mere thoughtlessness, many dishes, all of which require a cei-tain amount of manual labour in their preparation. For instance, green-pea soup, whipped cream, and mayonnaise sauce in one dinner woidd overtask probably the powers of any woman cook unassisted. Most of these vegetable soups and purees are very much improved by the addition of cream, and it will be generally found that boiling cream is oi-dered to be added. This distinction is important: not merely is the risk of curdling avoided, but the flavour is difi'erent. All know, for instance, how difierent coffee tastes that has had boiling milk added to it instead of ordinary milk. Just so with cream- when cream is used to be added to soup of any description, boil it separately before adding it. Now of course in ordinary private houses cream is far too expensive to be used often, and indeed in London to be used at all, except in small tiuautitiua.PRINCIPLES—BISQUE. xxxvii Milk is a vory obvious substitute for cream, especially if a yolk of an egg be added to it but cave must be taken in adding this yolk, or the soup will get curdled. We will suppose therefore, you are recommended to add a pint of boiling cream to some soup and you are going to substitute milk and a yolk of an egg instead. If possible, allow the soup to reduce itself by boiling, and you can then add more than a pint of milk. However, bod this milk, taking the usual care that it does not boil over, which milk seems particularly fond of doing, and pour this boiling milk through a strainer into the soup; next, have ready the hot sou]) tureen and tlie yolk of egg; just before serving up the soup, throw the yolk into the tureen, take a spoonful of the soup out of the saucepan and throw it in, and beat it up with the yolk, add a few more spoonfuls, one at a time, to the tureen, and mix in the yolk thoroughly; then pour in the remainder of the soup, which should not be absolutely boiling, though thoroughly hot. The effect of this milk and egg will be very similar to a pint of cream, but of course much more economical. When cream or milk is used for these white vegetable soups or purees, a bay-leaf and a msjncion of nutmeg may be added. Only be careful with the nutmeg: a very, very little will go a long way, and too much would utterly ruin the soup. Before leaving the subject of soups, there ia one I shoidd like to describe, because it is supposed to be a rare and recherche dish, but is in reality very simple, and can be made without much trouble—I refer to bisque made from crab. When the weather is not too hot, and crabs are cheap, take a nice heavy crab that is not watery, and pick out the meat from the claws into shreds with a couple of forks. Then take the soft inside of the back, and pick out all the meat from the rest of the crab, and pound it thoroughly in a mortar with a little boiled rice (about half as much boiled rice as there is crab) ; add some good stock and cayenne pepper, and rub the whole through a tamis; add some boiling cream, and the shredded meat from the claws at the last moment, just before serving, only take care not to let the bisque boil. Bisque of lobster, bisque of crayfish, is ninety-nine times out of a hundred made principally from crab, and if you can get some lobster butter to colour it no one can tell the difference. Lobster butter is simply the coral of lobster pounded with a little butter and cayenne pepper: it is a beautiful colour, and looks like vermilion paint. This will easily dissolve in soup and turn it a bright red. Lobster sauce and shrimp sauce both require lobster butter. Before leaving the subject of soups, I would refer to that somewhat modem invention—soups preserved in tins. To maintain that tinned soups are equal to those properly made from fresh meat would of course be ridicidous; but the invention is most useful, and, in cases of long voyages, &c., most valuable. A tin or two of soup in the house has always this advantage—it furnishes an extra dish at almost a moment's notice for an unexpected guest. I will now proceed to explain how these tinned soups may be utilised and improved, if their contents are found to be not quite what was expected. Unfortunately, preserved soups differ immensely from one another in quality. I have no doubt, however, in time some means will be taken—possibly by Government inspection—so that unifonnity of quality can be ensured. Veiy much, however, can be done by the cook to transform these soups from a flavourless concoction to a really nice soup, only recollect I do not mean that all soups preserved in tins require what cooks call " touching-up," but only that some do. Take, for instance, that most commonly-bought soup—mock turtle. If the tin is a good one, and the weathevcasbell's cookery. xxxviii not extremely hot, the soup when the tin is opened will be a hard jelly. It only requires wariiiiug up; but if, on tasting, it sippears poor and looks thin and of a barl colour, very nuich can bo done in a few luouicnts to improve it, both in flavour and ai)pearance. A table-spoonful of brown thickening or roux will render it darker and thicker, a little extract of meat or a small piece of glaze will give a better flavour, and last but not least, half a wine-glassful or a little more of faii-ly good sheriy will transform it, as if by magic, into excellent mock-turtle soup. Almost any bou}) is improved by the addition of extract of meat, whether it be thick or thin. Hare soup, again, when in a tin, of course requii-es port wine instead of sheny. Mulli- gatawny soup is wonderfully improved by the addition of a little curry paste, such as Captain White's. A short time back I referred to the advantage of keeping a certain kind of stock to make certain soups, and mentioned mutton stock for making oyster soup. Excellent oyster soup can be made from tinned oysters, and, as we are speaking of tinned soups, I will take this opportunity of describing the principles to be observed in making oyster soup from tinned oysters instead of fresh, which, consideiing the extraordinary price now charged for oysters, is really the only form of obtaining oyster soup when any regard whatever is had for economy. We will suppose, therefore, the stock, or rather the liquor left, in which a leg of mutton has been boiled. Now this liquor will make poor soup as a xvle, but vnll make good oyster soup by means of a tin of oysters, which costs less than sixpence, and the addition, if possible, of about three-pennyworth of ci-eam, which latter will be found a vast improvement. First reduce the stock by boiling, i.e., let it boil gently on the fire till rather less than a quart is left. Of course, care must be taken previously that every particle of fat has been removed. Next, take the tin of oysters, and having opened it, pour the liquor off the oysters through a strainer into the stock, keeping back the oysters in a basin; add a bay-leaf, a Kttle cayenne pepper, some boiling milk or, of coui^se still bettei', cream; thicken the soup with a little white roux or plain raw butter and flour. Allow it to boil gently, so as to thi-ow up the butter, which must be skimmed off, then add a good tea-spoonful of anchovy sauce, without which the soup will be very flavourless; pour this soup on to the oysters, which must be placed just as they are in the tureen. They are, in fact, over-cooked already, and rather tough, but the soup will be of a strong oyster flavour, and quite equal to that made from fresh oystei-s, so far as the so.up itself is concerned. It is, perhaps, scarcely necessaiy for me to remind you that soup, like stock, ^\-ill be preserved in hot weather better by being boiled up fresh every day, and also that soup that has had cream added to it is very apt to turn sour. Consequently, when it is possible, just sufficient should be made for the day. In conclusion, I would add that a little and good is far better than an enormous quantity and poor. I fear in summer time it is a very common thing for cooks to make soup in such quantities that half of it is nearly always wasted. FISH. We will next proceed to discuss the general principles to be borne in mind in cooking fish; and as before fish is cooked it is of the utmost importance to see that it is perfectly fresh, we will commence with choosing fish. Fortunately, fish when not perfectly fresh soon tells its own tale. Now, some kinds of fish will keep far better than others, just like meat ForPRINCIPLES—FISH. xxxix instance, a piece of silver-side of beef will keep perfectly good where a shoulder of mutton or, still woi-se, a shoulder of lamb would get bad. So, too, with fish : a solid tish like turbot or salmon will keep much better than fish like whiting, eels, or whitebait. There is one fish, viz., red mullet, that is absolutely better for being kept. In choosing fish, care should be taken not to judge too much by first appearances. A boatful just fresh out of the water, smeared with blood, look much less inviting than those exposed for sale on a fishmonger's slab, yet in reality these latter are the same fish a day or two staler. Perhaps the best general directions for picking all fish is—choose the plump ones. Thick soles or thick turbots are far preferable to thin ones; so, too, with cod-fish. A short fish, with thick shouldei-s, will always be found better than a long and rather thin fish. When the scales of a fish rub ofi" easily it is generally a sign that the fish is somewhat stale. The gills, too, of fresh fish are bright and clear; and when the fish gets stale these gills turn a darker colour, and look dull. Fish, too, that has been kept in ice for long is of very inierior flavour to fish fresh caught. We will begin with boiled fish, and run through the general pi-inciples to be observed in boiling. First, a very common fault with cooks is that they omit to put sufficient salt into the water in which the fish is boiled. In boiling large fish, such as cod, salmon, (fee, where the back- bone is exposed after the fish has been cleaned, it will be found to be a good plan to rub the bone with a piece of salt. The fish should then be placed gently in a larsre fish-kettle, with sufficient cold water to cover it. Salt should be added in the proportion for large fish of nearly half a poxrnd of salt to a gallon of water; the minimum of salt should be six ounces to a gallon. In the case of small fish, such as mackerel, small plaice, &c., a quarter of a pound of salt to the gallon will be sufficient. Most fish should be placed, as we have said, in cold water, unless it cooks very quickly or the fish is very small and intended for a fish souchet. The fish should then be allowed to boil up as quickly as possible. Directly the water begins to boil, it will be found that a good deal of scum will rise to the surface. This scum should be taken ofi" at once, as otherwise when the fish is removed from the kettle it will settle on the surface of the fish, rendering it unpleasant, not merely to the eye, but to the palate. At the bottom of the fish-kettle is generally placed a strainer, so that the fish can be gently lifted without breaking. It should be always borne in mind that fish is veiy tender and apt to break. Indeed, many a good cod-fish has been broken owing to the cook carelessly poiiring the cold water on to the fish from a little height. It would be almost impossible to give any general directions as to the length of time fish takes to boil. The time is generally best calculated after the water has boiled. For instance, a good large turbot ^vill be sufficiently cooked by allowing the water to boil for half an hour. Experience alone, however, will enable the cook to form a correct estimate. The fact of the flesh separating easily from the bone is quite enough to prove that the fish is amply done. When a very large cod or salmon is boiled whole, recollect that it will not do to judge by the tail whether the whole fish is done or not, as of course the tail being thinner than the shoulder it will cook through much quicker. Boiled fish should always be sei-ved up on a strainer covered with a nice clean napkin, and care should be taken to allow the water to ran off the fish-kettle strainer before the fish is moved or rather slipped off on to the napkin. Boiled fish should be ornamented with slices of cut lemon and green parsley, and of course a garnish of prawns or little tiny crayfish fonns a great improvement to the appearance. In the case of large flatcassell's cookery. xl fish, like a tui-Lot or good-sized brill, a little lobster coral sprinkled sparingly over the surface of the fish is the best method of making it ornamental. When lobster sauce is served with the fish this can generally be done; when there is no lobstei-, and the fish is served sinii)ly plain with melted butter, a little parsley not chopped up too finely will, with the cut lemon, form an admiral^le garnish whicli will in appeamnce be little inferior to the lobster coral. But we must again refer to a point previously mentioned, and that ia the whiteness of the fish. A fat turbot looks infinitely more tempting when it is of a snowy whiteness than one that is sent to table presenting a dii-ty appearance. Now this white appearance is much increased by the simple means of rubbing the fish over with a little lemon-juice—the efiect of acid lemon-juice is to slightly dissolve the outside impurities of the fish, which are then thi'own up in boiling, and removed bv skimming. In choosing a large turbot, avoid one with the backbone that looks red, as these fish rarely present that white appearance when boiled as those whose backbones when raw are white and colourless. We will now discuss or rather remind our readers of the general principles to be remembered in frying fish which we considered at some length in the early pages of this work. The principles are mainly these ;— Let the fat be boiling. Let the fat cover the fish. In prepai'ing fish for frying when eggs and bread-crumbs are used, take care first to dry the fish, secondly to flour it, then dip it in the wellheaien egg and sprinkle it with the dry bread-crumbs. Bread-raspings are very useful, but if the fat be deep and boiling are not really necessary. A few are, however, very useful to sprinkle over an accidental patch that may have mifortunately been made in removing the fish from the frying-pan. The almost universal fault with fried fish in private houses is that it is dried up and over-cooked. Indeed, many a supposed cook might go and receive an admirable lesson in that poor man's solace—a fried-fish shop. We are not certainly a nation of cooks like the French, but we are entitled to be justly proud of our fried-fish shops. The smell is not agreeable, but we have no hesitation in saying that a pennyworth of fried fish bought at one of these shops is better cooked and more palatable than the majority of dishes of fried fish met with in ordinary private establishments : the reason being that these places absolutely hoil the fish in hot fat, which is the one thing that renders the fish nice and soft. We next come to grilled fish, and tliere can be no doubt that the gi'ill somehow brings out a flavour that nothing else will. For instance, a fine fresh herring just out of the water cooked on a gridiron, what can compare to it ? Fish especially requii-es a clear fire. Take, for instance, filleted soles going to be done (I la Mattre d'hotel: unless the fire be quite clear, the fish will get smoky perhaps or look dirty. First, extra care must be taken to have the gridiron perfectly clean, as the white fish will show marks in a way that a chop or steak of course would not. As an extra precaution, therefore, I would recommend you to mb the gi-idii'on with a piece of mutton fat, and warm it. Then wipe it with a cloth, and see if any black remains. After this, again rub it with the fat, as it helps to prevent the fish from sticking and consequently bTirning, which it is very apt to do. The filleted pieces of solos- are first dipped in a little oil mixed with some chopped parsley and pepper and salt; the pieces are then placed across the gridiron, and if the fire be bright will look transparent, and directly this transparent appearance changes to an opaque one the fish is done. Underdone fish is extremely nasty, but, as we said, the universal fault is the other way—fish as a rule being as much overcooked as a boiled leg of mutton is generally undercooked. Another important point to be remembered in grilling li'.lixli PRINCIPLES—WHITEBAIT. is crenerally to keep in the flavour. For instance, a sHce of grilled salmon tastes ftr nicer if the slice has been wi-apped in oiled paper. Of course cooking anything wiupped in oiled paper on a gridiron requires great care, as should there be the; slightest flare the paper will catch fire—what is wanted is a fierce heat. When fish hii^ been cooked in paper it should be sent to table just as it is, paper and all. The paper must be proper cooking paper, and not printed. So few fish are ever baked that general directions on the subject are scarcely necessary. There is one case, however, to which we will refer, viz., fish en papillot, or, in other words, fish baked in paper. Take, for instance, the case of rouget en papillot The very best way of cooking red mullet is to wrap it up in oiled paper with plenty of butter and a little pepper and salt, the one thing to be borne in mind being that it is scarcely possible to have too much butter. Unfortunately, b\itter is now so ex- pensive that this method of cooking fish is very extravagant: this is true, but if you do cook it this way, either do it properly or try another way altogether. If you place a red mullet or indeed any fish in paper with what is generally called a little dab of butter you simply dry up and spoil the fish altogether. There is one delicious little fish that deserves special notice, and that is whitebait. How very few cooks are there who can send this delicacy to table ! Indeed, very often in country houses, when what are called grand dinnei-s are given, very often a man is specially sent down from London to cook the whitebait. Of coiirse, we presume the whitebait to be fresh. Now, what is the difficialty 1 I think the principal one is drying the whitebait. I will therefore describe exactly how whitebait is cooked at some of those charming little river-side hotels. The whitebait is first thrown on to flour on a cloth, not merely a floured cloth, but flour an inch deep. The whitebait, when thus dosed in flour, is put into a large sifter or very coarse, open cane sieve—something like that used for sifting oats—and shaken; all the loose flour is thus shaken ofi". The floured and sifted whitebait is then put in a wire basket, and plunged into boiling fat. Unless the fat be really boilings and sufficiently deep to cover the fish, it is of no use. Half a minute or a little more is quite sufficient to cook the whitebait, which must be sent to table instantly. Recollect, however, the wliitebait must be cooked directly it is floured. It is no use flouring the whitebait and putting it by; if you wait any time you will have it flabby and spoilt. The one point to" be remembered is expedition. Take cai'e also that the whitebait is not in a broken state. Plain whitebait is generally followed with a little devilled whitebait. There are two kinds, called black devil and red devil. The correct way to devil whitebait is to take out the whitebait basket in the middle of cooking, and pepper the fish, using mixed black pepper and salt for black-devil, and mixed cayenne pepper and salt for a red-devil. The basket should then be re-plunged into the boiling fat for a few seconds, and the whitebait sent to table. In nearly all hotels—and really the plan seems quite unobjectionable—the devilled whitebait is made from the ordinary whitebait left and sent downstairs from the first cou^e. This is peppered and replaced in the whitebait basket, which is then re-plunged into the boiling fat—a very few seconds, of course, being necessary to heat it. An indispensable accompaniment to whitebait is thin brown bread and butter and cut lemon. Whitebait, however, is such an exceedingly delicate fish that it seems to possess an extraordinary property of bringing out the flavour of the butter. Consequently, unless thfi butter is of the very best description it will taste bad. Xhtbo.—2*oassell's cookehy. Unfortunately, too, this bad flavour will be attributed to the tish ratiier than to the butter. Remember also in serving whitebait, m in serving a soulflet, a very few minutes' delay means ruin. There is one compound so intimately connected with fish that we tliink some reference should be made to it while we are discussing the subject of tlie prin- ciples to be observed in cooking fish of all kinds. We refer to melted butter. There are, perhaps, few dishes more essentially English than that large tureen of so-called melted butter, but which is in reality milk, or perhaps water, thickened with butter and flour, in which the latter really predominates. There is, too, probably nothing sent to table so extravagant as ordinary melted butter, as, for some reasons unknown, the cook seems possessed with an idea that persons eat melted butter as they do soup. It will almost invariably be found that melted butter, say for four persons, is sent up in sufficient quantity for twenty; and as there are few cooks who know, or care even if they do know, how to utilise the melted butter that is left, too often the greater part of this expensive and extravagant sauce is absolutely thrown away. I say expensive and extravagant advisedly, for properly-made melted butter is very nearly literally what the name implies. As good melted butter, or, as it is sometimes called, butter-sauce, is an ex- ceedingly nice and delicious accompaniment to most kinds of fish, and as in nine houses out of ten it is sent up in an uneatable form, I will, at the risk of being tedious, describe how to make it, and will at the same time remind cooks that melted butter is often looked upon as a crucial test of a good cook. Good melted butter is a happy medium between that very small quantity of curdled oil sent up as an accompaniment to fish at second-rate French hotels or restaurants and that large tui'een brimming fidl of thick milk genei'ally served in private houses. Just as in Ufe we ofttimes learn as much from our mistakes as we do from our successes, so it is often a good method of teaching first to describe "how not to do it." The usual but wrong method of making melted butter is as follows:—The cook cuts oflf a lump of butter at random, and places it on a plate with about an equal quantity of flour, standing the plate in front of the fire to allow the butter to sufl[iciently dissolve to enable her to mix the flour and butter altogether, which is generally done, too, with a steel knife. This kneaded butter and flour is then added to a pint or more of milk or water, or a mixture of the two, and the whole stirred together over a fire in a saucepan till thick—the reason of the butter and flour being kneaded together first being that it is then much less liable to render the sauce lumpy and curdled. All this is generally done by guess-work, and too often, owing to the quantity of flour hein^r miscalculated, the result resembles in consistency a pudding rather than a sauce. The great mistake in this method is the absurdly large quantity of milk or water and the equally absurd small quantity of butter. The fii-st idea the cook must clearly grasp is quantity. Butter, especially in the present day, is very expensive, and as butter-sauce consists mainly of butter, the cook must make sufficient, but not more than suflicient. Suppose, therefore, there are eight persons going to sit down to dinner, it may be calculated that each person will take one ladleful of melted butter with their fish, and no more; for if it be properly made it will look sufficiently rich to deter any one from what is vulgariy called " swimming " theii- plate with it.xliii PRINCIPLES MELTED BUTTER. Let therefore the cook who feels willing to learn act as follows:—^Take a small basin, or the sauce-tureen, and pour into it with the sauce-ladle eight ladlefuls of water, and two over, or ten in all, and then look at the quantity, and bear in mind that that is the limit of the quantity she must make—viz.. about half a pint. I will now describe how to make a small quantity of melted butter, sup- posing only a quarter of a pound of butter used. First take the butter, and divide it into six equal poi'tions—great accuracy not being essential—^take one ol these sixth parts and place it in a small enamelled stewpan to melt over the lire, and add to it not quite an equal quantity of flour, a small pinch of pepper, and a suspicion of nutmeg. When this little piece of butter is melted, and the flour, ikc, well mixed ^vith it, have ready half a tumbler of cold water, and pour the best part of it into the stewpan, and stir it up over the fire till the whole becomes about the same consistency as cream. When this is the case, gradually dissolve in it the remainder of the quarter of a pound of butter, taking care to stir it carefully, and not to apply too great a heat. It will sometimes be found that the melted butter thus made has a tendency to what cooks call " curdle," or to run oily. The moment any symptoms of this appear, add a spoonful of cold water, slacken the heat, and stir quickly. When all the butter thus made is dissolved, the whole may be poured into and sent through a tamis, which causes it to i^resent a much smoother appearance than it otherwise would. Unfortunately, really good melted butter ought properly to be made from fresh butter; when, therefore, the cii'cumstances of the house allow of fresh butter beinff used, a little salt must be added. However, very good melted butter can be made from salt or tub butter. We, however, are bound to admit that we live in an age of adulteration; and should it be your fate, therefore, to attempt to make melted butter from butter adulterated with fat, the blame of failure will not be youi-s, but the widespread dishonesty of the age in which we live. I firmly believe that before long, unless some more stringent laws are passed, successful trade will be incompatible with honesty. Tens of thousands of children die annually m this country from the slow but deadly poison of adulteration. THE JOINT. We will now proceed to discuss that all-important point in cooking, viz., the preparation of joints—roast and boUed. Simple as such preparation would seem, yet the fact remains that there are still many families, like that of David Copperfield, which fail apparently ever to hit upon the proper medium between, redness and cinders. Or should the joint happen to be a leg of mutton boiled, the first mcision of the knife causes that appearance which has been graphically described as "gushing horrible among its capers." Eoasting and boiling joints must in the present day be necessarOy divided into two classes, viz., those cooked before or over an open fire, and those cooked bv an oven heated by steam over a close fire. We will first take the good old- fashioned and extravagant open grate, which can be made to extend almost to any width by turning a handle, but which, alas! when stretched, recalls the un- pleasant circumstance to mind that in the present day the price of coals is far different to what it was years ago. We will also suppose the house to use the ovaimry roastmg-jack and hooks, as the still more old-fnshinned maphinery tuj-neclcassell's cookery. xliv by tlie heat of the fire has diaappeared as completely as the turn-spit doj;s tliem- selves. We will take as an example of joints to be roasted at an oi^en fire that most common one of all, viz., a leg of mutton. First, with regard to the condition of the joint—for nuioh depends upon this—a leg of mutton kept till it is ripe, or just fit for cooking, and one fresh killed, are two distinct things. The fact is, that the great principle of cookery—forethought—is as much overlooked in ordering a dinner as in cooking it. Housekeeper too often will simply order a leg of mutton from the butcher's when the man calls for orders in the morning, and when the leg is sent they don't know whether it was killed that morning or a foi'tnight before. In cold weather it is a very simple plan to pick out a nice joint at the bntcher's, asking when it was killed, and then have it hung up in the larder, or any cool place where there is plenty of air, till it is tender. The length of time say a haunch or leg of mutton will keep in this country depends entirely upon the weather. Of com-se, in some sultry August days a leg of mutton will sometimes turn bad in one day; but such days are rare, and in such weather large hot joints by no means desirable. In winter, especially during a frost, there is scarcely any limit to the time a leg of mutton will keep. Only bear in mind that if the leg gets frozen it is spoilt. In ordinary cold but not necessarily freezing weather, a leg of mutton will keep from ten days to a fortnight. Recollect, too, the importance of keeping the meat dry. For this purpose, flour with a dredger the whole of the joint, and look to it every morning, and re-flour any part that looks in the least degree moist. Experience alone will tell you when the joint should be cooked. Damp close weather is very bad for keeping meat, even if it is not very hot. Cold dry weather is, of course, the best of all, when the temperature is just above freezing. We will now suppose the joint to be hung sufficiently long; next let us con- sider what is the best method of cooking it, and—why. One most important point is to have a good clear bright fire to start with, and for this purpose the cook must see to the fire quite an hour before the joint is what they call " put down." It is no use to " put down" a leg of mutton or large joint to a dull fire, and for the cook to say, " Oh, it "vvill soon burn up !" This corresponds to putting the leg of mutton into lukewarm water, and saying, "Oh, it will soon boil!" The principle of boiling and roasting is the same—to endeavour as quickly as possible to surround the joint with a hard film of meat, in order to keep the flavour in. Consequently, the fire must be clear, bright, and fierce to start with, and the leg of mutton must be put rather near the fire to commence with. After a short time, varying from ten minutes to a quarter of an hour, according to the heat of the fire, draw the joint a little back, and let it cook steadily. Another im- portant point in roasting meat is the basting. A leg of mutton cannot be too much basted. Also basting should commence almost directly the meat is put down. Now it will be often found, in fact generally, that women cooks place the dripping-pan in front of the fire, then hang the joint; next take a basin with some dripping in it, and place a lump in the dripping-pan to melt—the piece placed in front of the dripping-pan generally slipping round to the back as soon as the melting begins. This melting process takes time, and too often the skin and surface of the meat gets hard and dry, and cracks before sufficient di-ipping has melted to baste with.What cooks sliould do is to place the di'ipping-paa in front of the fire, with the diipping or lard in it, a quarter of an hour or more b^we they hang up the joint, and also to make it a rule not to hang the joint at all before they see sufficient dripping has run into the well of the diipping-pan to take up a good spoonful of melted ftit in the basting-ladle. With regard to time, tliis not merely dej^ends upon the size of the joint, but upon the fire and the time of year. Roughly speaking, a leg of mutton weighing eight pounds will take a couple of hours, and one of ten pounds two hours and a half For a large leg of mutton, a diSerence of nearly half an hour should be made for summer and winter—in winter, of course, the meat requiring a longer time. If the fire has been properly attended to, and the basting kept up during the whole time the joint is roasting, it will generally be found that the leg of mutton will be sufficiently browned without having recourse to flouring it and drawing it near to the fii-e. Should, however, the meat look light- colom-ed, draw the leg a little nearer the fire, and allow those parts that look lighter than the rest to brown by stopping the roasting-jack from going round. Should, however, it be necessary or thought desirable to use flour, do not let the flour fall in the dripping-pan in any quantity, as this, as we before pointed out, will have the efiect of thickening the gravy. In roasting a haunch of mutton, exactly the same process should be followed as in roasting a leg, only as the haunch is of com-se far lai'ger, it requires a much longer time to cook; consequently, the outside is very apt to get over- cooked and dried up before tlie joint is cooked through. Now a large haunch of mutton weighing over sixteen pounds will take four hours to cook; when, therefore, this sized joint has to be cooked, it will be necessary to protect the outside parts not covei'ed with fat with some artificial covering, such as thin slices of fat, or oiled foolscap paper. The best way of treatmg a fine large haunch of mutton that has been well hung is to cook it exactly in the same way as a fine haunch of venison, the proper method of cooking which is as follows:—First, however, remember that a haunch of venison, of all joints in the world, depends upon the attention that has been bestowed upon it during its hanging. Like the haunch of mutton, it must be kept in a cool and airy place, and also kept dry. Great care also should be taken in the early transport of the meat, to prevent its getting in any way bruised. A haunch of venison will keep much longer than a haunch of mutton, and is generally preferred when just on the turn towards getting what is called "high." It is, however, a great mistake to keep a haunch too long, so as when it is cut it has a strong gamey smell. The following is the best method of roasting a haunch of venison, and perhaps few recipes better illustrate that important principle of cooking, viz., " keep the flavour in." Fii-st, all the dry skin on the underneath part and skirt should be removed, and the shank-bone neatly sawn ofi". Then a piece of buttered paper should be put over what we may call the breast of the haunch, or that part where there is least fat, and where it is generally first cut. Then the whole haunch should be covered over with a flour-and-water paste half an inch thick, and outside this paste large sheets of oiled paper should be tied. The joint should then be hung up, or, better still, put in a cradle-spit, and roasted. The time a good-sized haunch of venison will take to roast varies from four CO five hours, though of course it would be useless to attempt to roast one^^^^ (jASSELL*S COOKERY. at all, except before a very large fire. About half an hour before the joint is wmited remove the paste and paper, and sprinkle a little salt all over the haunch out of a pepper-box. . Next bring the haunch near the fire, and baste it with some fresh butter heated till it is frothed, and at the same time dredge the haunch witli flour. The point to be aimed at is to get a rich brown colour all over the joint. A good brisk fire will generally be sufficient; but if any diffi- culty is experienced, a salamander will be found a great assistance. Indeed, fur obtaining a colour, a salamander will often be found a desirable kitchen utensil. It is simply a large flat piece of iron with a handle to it. This iron is made red-hot and held near to what requires browning. A salamander will be found extremely Tiseful in browning cheesecakes, or in raising an omelette. A rich but not sti'ongly-flavoured gravy should be served with a haunch of venison, and also red-currant jelly. French beans are by far the best vegetable to be eaten with it, and stale bread is better than new. If possible, have a plate with hot water underneath it; and if you know a haunch of venison is coming, reserve your appetite as much as possible, and do not spoil it by eating entrees first. To my mind, a fine, well-cooked haunch of venison, such as is served during the season every Tuesday and Thursday at the Albion Hotel, opposite Drury-lane Theatre, is the finest dinner that can be obtained anywhere, including even Paris. Of course, the reason of covering the haunch with the paste is to keep in the flavour. We shall speak more fully on this point of keeping in the flavour when we come to consider cooking joints in closed vessels. One great secret of successful roasting is the basting. Now it is evident that any joint covered with fat requires less basting than a dry or lean joint. For instance, a loin of mutton requires less basting than a leg, because it is generally miich fatter. Again, in basting a sirloin of beef, the sides or lean part should be basted, while the fat upper part and undercut requii'e scarcely any. Basting with fat or dripping should not go on till the joint be taken down, but discontinued about ten minutes or a quarter of an hour before; as, if a joint has been basted up to the last moment with fat, it has a tendency to make the meat, especially the outside cut, taste greasy. This does not apply to basting with butter. Butter, however, is now so dear that it is scarcely ever used for basting purposes. One great difficulty, perhaps the chief one with inexperienced cooks, is the time a joint will take, to roast. Too much dependence must not be placed on mere weight. For instance, take a shoulder of mutton. A large but tnin shoulder will not take so long to roast as a smaller but thicker one. So again, the old maxim of allowing a quarter of an hour to a pound of meat will not apply to ribs of beef rolled. This latter joint is all solid meat, and thick, and conse- quently takes a long time to get heated right through. So again, a. loin of mutton boned and stuSed, which is the most economical way of cooking it, will take a longer time to roast than an ordinary loin of mutton with the bone in it. Of course the weight of a joint is a great criterion as to how long it will take to cook; but then it should always be borne in mind that the weight and thickness should be considered together. One very common mistake made by cooks is to suppose that lamb does not require cooking so long as mutton, because it is young and tender. The con- trary is however the case: underdone lamb is far worse than underdone muttoa A well-roasted haunch or saddle of mutton when cut should show signs of havingPRINCIPLES—ROASTING. <^oocl red gi-avy in it. Underdone lamb will be flabby and sodden; consequently, lamb really requii-es considerably more time than mutton. Lamb, too, should be always cooked before a particularly brisk fire, and should be constantly basted. Just as lamb requires more roasting than mutton, so does veal require longer roasting than beef. I think, as a rule, the principle will be found to be, that the closer the meat the longer does it take to cook, whether the process be roasting, baking, or boiling. For instance, a leg of mutton is closer meat than a shoulder, and consequently, supposing a leg and shoulder be the same weight, yet the former would require longer roasting than the latter. So, too—supposing the weight the same—would a silver-side of beef, which is very close meat indeed, take longer to boil than an aitch-bone of beef. Veal is, as a rule in this country, a closer meat than beef, and requires a great deal of cooking. Underdone veal, like underdone lamb, is extremely unwholesome. Pork, again, is a white and close meat—it is almost impossible to over-roast pork. A large leg of pork weighing twelve to sixteen pounds will take four or five hours to roast properly. It will also be foimd advisable to rub the skin of the pork over with oil previous to roasting it, as other^vise the skin has a tendency to get hard and split. There are some things that are nearly always overcooked, and among these we would particularly mention geese and ducks. Cooks should recollect that geese and ducks are hollow, and that the meat on the breast is very often only an inch and a half deep at the outside. Too often ducks are sent to table so dried up that the flavour is completely gone, and when carved the breast-bone is dry and white. A large duck does not require more than three-quartei's of an hour to an hour to cook, and a good-sized goose one hour and three-quarters. In roasting poulti-y the same thing holds true as in roasting meat, viz., that the closer the meat the longer the time. This is very marked in contrasting the time it takes to roast a goose and the time it takes to roast a turkey—the latter, in proportion, taking nearly double the time of the former. A large turkey weighing say fourteen pounds would require three hours and a half, whereas a large goose that size would only require one hour and three-quarters. In roasting all kinds of poultry and game, basting is of the utmost importance, as otherwise the meat is certain to be dry and flavourless. In roasting some kinds of game it is a very common custom, especially abroad, to fasten a piece of fat bacon over the breast, and, indeed, sometimes the bii-d is sent to table with the bacon on it. Of course this is purely a matter of taste; but to my thinking the bacon spoils the flavour of the bird. What should be done in roasting partridges is to calculate exactly the time when they will be wanted, and not to roast them too soon. Some cooks get nervous, and in fear of being late, absolutely get some dishes that are not wanted till quite the finish of dinner ready when dinner begins. In large parties, partridges should not be put dovm to roast till after the soup and fish have come downstairs. The entries invariably take a long time handing round, and then the joint has to follow. I have no doubt that many will remember how invariably at large dinner-parties the game is overcooked and dried up. Hare is a very dry meat, and requires a great deal of roasting. Over-roasted hare is one of the most insipid things sent to table. Yet too often hare will be found to be quite dried up. The proper form of roast hare is, that when the knife cuts into the back the meat, though not red, should be juicy; too often it will be found to be quite dry. So, too, with a roast pheasant. After the breastcabbell's cookery. xlviii has been cut, when the knife separates tlie wing-bone from the merry-thought, the bone where it is divided should look a little pink; thin will show that the bird has not been dried up. When we come to small birds, like woodcock and snipe, we must be still more careful of over-roasting, as it is a cruel thing to spoil such expensive delicacies owing to a little carelessness. It is difficult to lay down any exact time—so much depending on the fire—only be sure of one thing, and that is, baste the whole time. Snipe especially should be mther underdone. There is an old saying which cooks would do well to remember, viz., "A well-cooked snipe is one that has only flown onco through the kitchen." Of coui-se this is an extravagant way of saying how very little cooking snipe require. Of course, in serving small game, no delay should take place. Game half cold is not worth eating—and it is apt to lose its heat veiy quickly. Some dishes have special power of retaining heat, such as Irish stew and hasty puddings. Others, seem to lose their heat quickly, and among the latter class we would especially mention roast loin of mutton, which seems to possess the power of getting cold quicker than any other joint I know. We will. now go on to consider what is really another form of roasting, viz., grilling. There is perhaps no better test of a cook than a rump-steak and a boiled potato. If you can get the former black outside and red in, and the latter a floury mass as white as snow that crumbles to pieces on your plate, you may rest assured that the cook thoroughly understood his or her business. The same principles, of course, apply to grilling a chop or steak as in roasting or boiling, the point being as much as possible to surround the meat very quickly with a hard film to keep in the juices and flavour. For grilling it is essential, therefore, to have a perfectly clear fii'e, and also to place the chop or steak near the fire at starting. It is obvious, too, that the very first principles of cookery are overlooked if the cook is foolish enough to stick a fork into the steak or chop to turn it. By this means you commit the unpardonable crime of letting out the graw. We have, however, already fully described in page xii. the principles to be observed in the use of the gridiron. It wUl always be found best to have one gridiron for meat and another for fish. In grilling kidneys, also, it is best to remove them every now and then, and dip them into a little hot fat if there is any handy. Very often it will be found that those who prefer meat " giilled" also have a partiality for meat "devilled." What, then, is the difierence between an ordinary mutton chop grilled and a mutton chop devilled] Generally, the only difierence is that some black or cayenne pepper has been sprinkled over the chop during the gi'illing; but there are several kinds of sauces that may be called devil sauce. I will mention two—for the first of which I am indebted to the late Mr. Francatelli, and for the second to Mons. Bossard, the famous cook at St. Peter's College, Cambridge. Francatelli's recipe is as follows :—Chop three shallots fine, and place them in a Pmall stew|)an Avith two table-spoonfuls of French vinegar and a pinch of cayenne pepper; boil these together for three minutes; then add half a pint of thin, strong, brown gravy and a table-spoonful of tomato sauce; boil again, and finish by stirring in a small pat of anchovy butter. This sauce is suitable for aU kinds of broiled meat, and of course its strength,PRINCIPLES—BOILING. xlix SO far as liotness goes, entii-ely depends upon the size of the pinch of cayenne pepper. Tlie other kind of devil sauce is of quite a different character, and has the advantage of being made in a few moments, and also of consisting only of materials that are nearly certain to be at hand. Take say an ounce or a little more of butter, and dissolve it in a stewpan, but do not oil the butter or allow the stewpan to get too hot. Mix in a spoonful of made mustard, and a little mixed black and cayenne pepper, and stir the whole well together. The sauce should resemble thick custai-d, both in appearance and consistency. This sauce should not be poured over the grilled meat until the very last moment. Care also should be taken not to have the plate so burning hot so that it will dissolve the butter into oil. Kecollect, the only secret of making this sauce successfully is not over- heating it. This sauce, poured over a nicely-grilled chop at breakfast-time, often has the effect of enabling a person with a delicate appetite to take meat, when, without the stimulant of the sauce, they would be unable to touch any. We have already discussed the general principles of cooking to be observed both in frying and boiling. I would, however, remind you, in choosing a joint, such as a leg of mutton, when it is for boiling and not for roasting, it is advisable to have it rather fresher. A leg of mutton for roasting may be left till it is on the verge of turning. Not so a leg for boiling. First, if the mutton be kept too long it will be of a very bad colour when sent to table; secondly, the liquor in which it was boiled will not be fit for anything. In boOing a leg of mutton, it shoidd always be borne in mind that even with the greatest care some considerable amount of nourishment will get out into the water. Indeed, it would be a very practical lesson, not only to cooks but to heads of households, to make a few experiments in weighing materials befoi'e roasting or boiling and after. They should remember, too, that tliere is no such thing in nature as annihilation. Very often when turnips are a little old, the cook, in order to save herself a very little trouble, will boil all the turnips with the leg of mutton, thei'eby rendering the liquor too sweet to make soup. To my mind, one great drawback to salt beef is that even with plenty of soaking pi'e- viously in cold water, the liquor in which the beef is boiled is unfit for making soup. I have no hesitation in saying that in all fairly-sized establishments the refuse of the joints should be sufficient to enable the family to have soup every day. By " refuse " I mean the water in which meat is boiled, the trimmings, &c., but especially the bones left from joints. A silver-side of beef when fresh if boiled makes capital soup, and yet cases are found where such liquor is absolutely thrown away. I recollect once on board ship seeing the cook empty overboard the liquor in which had been boiled—over-boiled, of course—a huge fresh aitch- bone of beef Waste is absolutely sinful; and when we consider for one moment that we injure our fellow-creatures more by ^"^asting a leg of mutton than by burning a £20 note, we shall the better realise the importance of economy in cooking in its strictest sense. The truest economy is to get the gi-eatest amount of nourishment possible out of the materials we use. Nor should we waste because the materials are cheap and plentiful. Even were it in our power to multiply food to a miraculous extent, it would still no less be our duty to gather up the fragments that remain, that nothing be lost. In boiling poultry of all kinds, it should be our endeavour to obtain—just as in boiling fish—a good colour, and of coui-se the principle is the same. Id1 oassell's cookery. boiling say a fowl or a turkey, by rubbing the breaat over with lemon-juice, or by placnig a few thin slices of lemon on the breast, and covering them over with a piece of buttered paper, and wrai)ping the whole in a cloth, you will be able to send the fowl to table with that kuow white appearance whiclx renders it so much more tempting to the appetite. The reason of the flesh being whiter is that the acid of the lemon helps to dissolve the outside impurities of the skin on the breast of the fowls. Speaking of economy in cooking naturally brings us to that most economical way of cooking, viz., stewing. Eeally, the principles of stevvdng—the French method of cooking nearly everything—ai-e so simjjle that they hardly require explanation. Let us for one moment contrast a mutton chop gi-illed and one stewed in rice. In the former case, some of the chop goes up the clumney in the shape of vapour, and some into the fire in the shape of fat and perhaps a little gravy, and is absolutely lost, so far as the eater is concerned. Take the chop, however, and put it in a small stewpan with just siifficient water to cover it and a spoonful of rice; cover over the stewpan, put a heavy weight on the lid, and let it gently simmer by the fire for two or three hours. What is the result 1 Nothing is lost. Again, take that economical dish—an Irish stew—and see how much farther three pounds of neck of mutton will go as Irish stew than as mutton cutlets. In speaking of stewing as the universal custom in France, recollect I do not refer so much to Parisian restaurants as to the nation generally, and esj^ecially the poor. I believe the contrast in the cooking between the French and EngHsh soldiers during the Crimean war was very marked. A very large employer of labour in the North of England told me that he had noticed, among the few French workmen he employed, that on the same wages as other men they lived, so far as eating was concerned, more than twice as well. Fortunately for this country there seems gradually a change going on for the better. The enormous increase in the price of coals will probably do much to abolish, in very small houses, open grates, and ste\ving over a close stove is far easier than over open ones. The reason of this is, that the principle of stewing is to keep the ingredients at a certain but not too great a heat. Stewing is very difierent to boiling. Irish stew allowed to boil is hard; Irish stew that is really stewed will almost melt in the mouth. Cooks must, however, be very careful in usiug enamelled stewpans, as should the contents of one of these vessels begin to boil, such is their power of retaitiing the heat that it will be found the boiling process -will continue some time after the vessel has been removed from the fire. Perhaps one of the best instances of the power enamelled stewpans have of retaining heat is when one is used for the purpose of making brown thickening. It will be remembered that we recommended, when the butter and flour mixed together had assumed a proper colour, that a few slices of onion should be thro^vn in, and the stewpan removed from the fire, but kept stirring. Now it will be often found that the stewing process will continue for over ten minutes after the vessel has been taken ofi" the fire, and placed, say, on a cold slab. Of course anything can be fried in butter or oil at a lower temperature than that of boiling water, still the extraordinary length of time the " bubbling " of the butter goes on is a capital means of impressing on the cook's mind how very much these vessels retain the heat. Consequently in stewing, when boiling is particulariy to be avoided, an enamelled stewpan should be carefully watched, and it will be foimd toPRINCIPLES—BAKING. be a -ood method to have a little cold water ready—a dessert-spoonful will be sufficient to throw in to stop the boHing, should it accidentally take place. A copper ste^vpan retains the heat comparatively for a very short period. The principal objection to enamelled omelet pans is that they are far more likely to burn the omelet than an ordinary one. We now come in due course to consider the general principles to be observed in baking. Most persons know the difference in the flavour of meat roasted in the ordinary way before the fire or baked in the oven-recollect I am stHl alluding to the old-fashioned open grates. What the difference is in the flavour between meat roasted and meat baked it is perhaps difficult to describe accurately, but that the former is far superior to the latter there can be no doubt. The reason of the difference in the flavour is however very simple. When meat is roasted certain vapours are of course given off which go up the chimney immediately ; when meat is baked in the oven these vapours are shut in, and consequently affect the flavour of the meat; and it will be remembered that the difference between roast and baked meat, though obvious to the palate, is still more obvious to the sense of smell. Now certain joints bake better than others; for instance, a shoulder of mutton is really quite as nice baked in a close oven as roasted, while a baked leg, and especially a baked loin, is very inferior. One great objection to shut-up fire-places has un- doubtedly been the difficulty of roasting a joint. This difficulty is, however, quite overcome for all ordinary purposes by a new cooking range, in the oven of which a joint may be baked, and yet the result will be that the most sensitive palate cannot distinguish the difference between the joint so cooked and one roasted in the ordinary way before the fire. The principle is as simple as it is ingenious. The oven is so constructed that a current of air can always be passing quickly through it. The stove is constructed on the same principle as a blast furnace, and the heat is regulated by turning a small handle. An opening at one end of the oven is connected with the chimney of the stove, up which the smoke and heated air ascends. Of course the hot air of the oven rushes out at this opening, its place being supplied by cold air admitted through a small sliding opening in front of the oven. Consequently, when any joint is baked in an oven of this description, the process it imdergoes is exactly the same as in roasting before an open fire. The joint is, of course, placed on a raised tin with holes in it to prevent the bottom getting sodden, and the oven door has from time to time to be opened in order to baste the joint. Of course all the vapours that are given off by the joint in cooking are instantly carried up the chimney with the current of hot air. In roasting a joint—for such in reality it is—in an oven of this description it will be found best to turn the joint over when it is half cooked. I have always found that when the fire has been properly attended to, a good colour can be obtained; should, however, the joint look pale, a hot salamander will soon overcome the difficulty. The question as to whether open stoves or shut stoves are the best is of course a most important one. Economy of fuel, now that the price of coals has reached what it has, is quite as important as economy of food. There cannot be any doubt that to English minds the open fire-places in sitting-rooms and bed-rooms convey an idea of real comfort that the close stoves met with abroad utterly fail to give ; and it will probably be many years before these stoves are introduced in English households. Not so, however, kitchen ranges. The advantages of a close range over an open one1" CASSELL'S COOKEtlY. are so enonnous, that there can be but little doubt that before long they will i-iUiversidly be used throughout the kmgdom. One veiy obvious advantage they possess is that of eleanliuoss. The outsides of saucepans used with close stoves do not get encrusted with soot like those that are placed over open tires. Again, in using shut-up ranges all fear of any dishes being sent up smoky is done away with. But of coui-se the chief point iu their favour is economy of fuel; and it should be remembered that economy in the necessaries of life is a duty. Just as that maa who could cause two grams of corn to gr-ow where only one grew before is a real benefactor to the himian race, so is ho equally a benefactor who can so economise either food or fuel that half the quantity will do the work of the whole; but we will refer to the subject of close stoves more fully when speaking of kitchen utensils in general. There is one method of cooking to which we must refer before passing on to the general principles to be observed in cooking vegetables, and that is exijosing meat to the heat of an oven which is heated on the outside by steam instead of fire. This is, ill fact, the principle of Captain Warren's cooking pot. The joint is placed in an inner chamber, the outside of which is surrounded with steam. Consequently tlie joint is cooked in its own juice and vapours. The invention is valuable, owing to the very important fact that it is the most economical way of cooking possible. At the same time it gives, comparatively speaking, but little trouble to the cook. Should it be wished that the joint should be a roast one, it has to be taken out of the cooking pot and browned. However, when this is done the joint cannot com- pare to one roasted before an open fire, or baked in one of the new ovens. I would therefoi-e recommend, when Captain Warren's cooking pot is used, to keep as much as possible to the plan of eating the joint simply as it is, as browning the outside merely makes it a sort of compromise between a roast leg of mutton and a boiled one. One other advantage possessed by Captain Warren's cooking pot is that the lid is so constructed that while the meat is cooking in the inner chamber vegetables can be cooked by steam in a chamber above. VEGETABLES. These may roughly be divided for cooking purposes into two classes, viz., roots and greens; the chief point of distinction between the two being that in cooking the latter class due attention must be given to the fact, that a good colour is an important point for consideration. One almost universal principle in cooking vegetables is the addition of salt to the water in which they are boiled; and another almost as universal is that they should be put into boiling and not cold water. The quantity of salt that should be added will generally be found to be in the proportion of a good brimming table-spoonful of salt to half a gallon of water. Now, the whole of the following vegetables should be cooked by placing them in boiling water, salted in the proportion named. Turnips, cauliflowers, carrots, cabbages, artichokes (French), asparagus, French beans, broccoli, Brussels sprouts, parsnips, new potatoes, gi-een peas, and vegetable marrow. The whole of these will of course vary as to time, according to their size and age. Old potatoes should be placed in ^old water, and medium-aged potatoes in lukewarm water; the reason, of course, why old potatoes are placed in cold water bemg that otherwise, the root being hard, the outside part of a large potato would be apt to get pulpy before the inside got soft. In cooking Jerusalem artichokes it seems to be :U3 open question whether they should be placed in hot water or cold; they should,liii PRINCIPLES—VEGETABLKS. however, be treated like potatoes—when young and small, boiUng water; when old, cold water. Spinach is, again, a vegetable about which there is much dispute; some cooks maintaining that the less water used the better the spinach; some going even so far as to° steam the spinach, and use no water at all; others boiling the spinach till it is tender in an ordinary quantity of water, and then draining it, and rinsing it in cold water before pounding it in a mortar. My own opinion is, that the latter method is the preferable one; it has also the advantage of being recom- mended by the late Mr. Francatelli. We next come to consider the principle of obtaining a good colour. Of course, if the vegetables, such as peas, are old and stale, and of a bad colour to start with, there is no way of making them green by cooking. However, it will often be found that quite young and fresh green peas—and we take peas merely as the type of a class—will turn yellow in boiling. The chief points to be con- sidered for the purpose of avoiding a bad colour are—first, see that the water is boiling before the vegetables are put in; secondly, do not shut in tlie steam. Consequently, whenever it is possible, let green vegetables boil in an open saucepan. Of course, when you liave a shut stove and a hot-plate this is very easy; when, however, it is an open fire, care must be taken that in placing the lid half open, so that the steam may escape, at the same time the smoke is not sucked into the saucepan. Smoky vegetables are extremely disagreeable. To obtain a good colour for carrots, they must be lightly scraped, and not peeled. Another important point in cooking the majority of vegetables is to have plenty of water. First, if the quantity of water is not large, the moment the vegetables are put in, the water instantly goes ofi" the boil, whereas it is important the water should boil the whole time. Again, it is well known how extremely disagreeable green-water is to smell; consequently, should say a cabbage be placed in a small quantity of water, this disagreeable green-water becomes more concentrated. Let me here, however, give you one most important word of warning with regard to "green-water," and that is, never on any account allow it to be poured down the sink, as the smell that will consequently arise will probably have the very uncomfortable result of rendering the whole house disagreeable for some time after. There are few houses now, even in London, that do not possess a small patch of gi'ound at the back. The best way of getting rid of green-water is to pour it on the ground outside. Of course in all culinary operations the first principle of cookery, viz., clean- liness, should be strictly attended to. But in cooking vegetables, if possible, even extra care should be taken on this point. For instance, in cooking potatoes the unsightly black spots should be scooped out with the greatest care. In boiling spinach, the enemy to be encountered is grit, consequently the spinach should be washed in several waters, the water being sufficiently deep to allow the dii-t to settle. In boiling greens, and especially cauliflowers and broccoli, those most disgusting enemies, catei-pillars and little slugs, must be met and defeated. Now, in a close cauliflower or broccoli this is not always so easy a task as some would imagine; but by letting the vegetables soak in cold salt and water for an hour or more, and occasionally shaking them, every one of these nasty creatures can be got rid of—for to find a boiled caterpillai- on one's plate at dinner is quite sufficient to destroy one's enjoyment of the meal. The fact really impliesoassell's cookery. liv that the cook is dirty; and when this is the case, it in difficult to really fancy any of the dishes that have necessarily passed through her hands. Before leaving the subject of vegetables, one word in regard to the somewhat modern invention of preserved vegetables in tins. Take, for instance, peas. Of course, like everytliing else, peas are best when fresh gathered and in season ; but it is really wonderful to what perfection the art of preserving vegetables has been brought. However, just as in the case of tinned soups we gave a few simple directions how the contents of the tin may be improved when opened, so, too, with vegetables much may be done to what we may call " increase the illusion." For instance, take the case of a tin of peas. Of course they are already cooked, and only want warming up. Now these tinned peas will be found, as a rule, to be not quite so sweet as fresh-gathered young ones; consequently, whenever you use a tin of peas as a vegetable, or to be piled up in the centre of an entr6e, such as chicken cutlets, act as follows:—First obtain, if possible, a few leaves of fresh mint, and boil these leaves in a little water till tender; then turn out the tin into a small ste\vpan, liquor and all, and put it on the fire to warm gently. Suppose the tin is a pint of peas, add about half a salt-spoonful of salt, and one third of a salt-spoonful of powdered sugar. The sugar will of course cause the peas to taste sweeter, and consequently more like the real fresh ones. Add the mint- leaves, which, in addition to really improving the flavour of peas, undoubtedly help the imagination to regard the peas as fresh-gathered ones. Really, if the tin is a good one, it requires a very good judge to distinguish between fresh peas and preserved ones. The same method must be pursued with French beans— the latter, however, are improved by having a little chopped boiled parsley added instead of mint, and a piece of butter mixed with them when they are sti'ained ofi". In heating all pi-eserved vegetables do not allow them to remain on the tii-e longer than is necessary to simply make them hot through. ENTREES. Though entrees are as a rule served before joints, we have gone briefly through the general piinciples to be observed in cooking joints before those to be con- sidered in reference to entries. It should be remembered, however, that cooks must learn simple things before they attempt difficult. Too often it will be found that cooks have what may be termed a few specialities, i.e., they have a few savoury dishes for which they are famed, but at the same time fail to invariably send up the joint and vegetables correctly. That cook is the most valuable who is the most regular. Amateur cooks almost invariably fall into the fault of wishing to begin at the higher branches of the science—for such it deserves to be called— of cooking. Young ladies in households often like to what they call " assist " on certain occasions; but if the truth were known, probably hinder rather than help the cook, who frequently has to leave ofi* her own duties to wait upon the amateurs, who generally choose jellies or a trifle as the dish with^ which they commence their experimental cooking. Cooking, as we have said, is a science; and persons who think they can begin at the wrong end will find, practically, that they will fail signally. To give any general principles. with regard to such an enormous variety of dishes as is comprehended in the word entree is somewhat difficult. Some few general explanations, however, can be given of certain classes of entries. As one very common specimen we would mention kromeskies, taking them as a specmaenIv PRINCIPLES ENTRIES. of that large and usually very nice class of entries which may generally be described as a hot enti-ee, in which the inside is soft and moist, enclosed in a hard, thin cover. The cover is composed either of egg and bread-crumbs or batter, the inside of which may be termed genendly as croquettes, which we have elsewhere described as a savoury mince moistened with sauce, if necessary bound together with yolk of egg, dipped in beaten egg, rolled in bread-crumbs, and fried crisp. Now it will be, I think, univei-sally admitted that these croquettes and kromes- kies are far nicer when the inside is pappy instead of hard. I may here add that the difference between kromeskies and croquettes is that the former is the latter suiTOunded with a very thin slice of parboiled fat bacon or calf's udder before it is egged and bread-crumbed. ■ We will now imagine an inexperienced cook with the following difficulty :—She is aware that the croquettes are far nicer when moist, but then how is she to ef'ff and bread-crumb that which is so moist as to be almost a liquid? We will suppose the case of some croquettes made from the remains of a cold fowl. The meat has been cut off the bone, and minced with the lean ham, mushrooms, &c. Now the bones should have been put on the fire, to assist in making the sauce that will moisten the mince. This sauce, with the bones in it, should be boiled away, i.e., reduced by allowing the steam to escape, till onli/ sufficient to 7noisten the mince is left. If this is done properly, when cold the sauce will be a hard jelly; consequently, the mince when hot will be quite moist, and almost liquid, but when cold will be quite hard. Now this moist mince should be allowed to get cold, and be then shaped iiito little pieces, either square for kromeskies, or into pieces like oval picnic biscuits, to look like cutlets. None of the trimmings in so shaping them need be lost, as they can easily be dissolved by heat and allowed to get cold again, which they will soon do on a small plate or dish. Now it is evident that these hard pieces when cold can be readily egged over and bread-crumbed. Great care should, however, be taken in so doing, as should there be a flaw in the covering of egg, when fried the inside will run out. I would therefore recommend as follows :—Suppose the inside mince is very savoury, perhaps flavo\ired with truffle, or composed of those expensive but deli- cious delicacies—oysters. Having egged and bread-crumbed the cold, hard— because a jelly—piece of mince, let it get dry, which it soon will do if left in a cool place for an hour. E,e-dip it just as it is into fresh beaten-up egg, and shake some more fine dry bread-crumbs over it. By this means you have a double coat, so to speak, round your mince. Next, to cook them. We will sup- pose a small, deep stewpan half full of boiling fat or lard. The croquettes are carefully but suddenly plunged in. What is the effect] The heat of course attacks the outside first, consequently, the egg covering coagulates directly, before the inside melts; when the inside melts it is surrounded with a thin film which keeps it together. Great care, of course, must be exercised in draining such moist croquettes and in serving them; but'when the little cutlet or ball reaches the plate without accident, and that delicious gush of inside pours on to the plate, owing to the fork of the eater being inserted into it, how far preferable are such croquettes to those that have almost to be cut! Indeed, any one can make the latter; but when a good judge gets one of the former, or moist ones, he knows that in proportion almost to the moisture is the skill of the cook. Should, indeed, the inside be very moist and almost liquid, he may smack his lips, and mentally ejaculate, " Ah, an artiste ! " Recollect, however, in makingcassell's cookery. croquettes in which the insides ai'e moist tliei-fi must be a limit to size. If very moist, they must be small; indeed, a middling-sized walnut should be the limit, for it is evident that the Ktien,i,'th of material of a thin film composed of coagulated egg would not be sulhciont to overcome the force of gravity alone of a moist mass, the tendency of which is of course to become level. The best form indeed to make these croquettes is cutlet-shape, or, as we have before described, the shape of an oval picnic biscuit. My own experience is that this shape is less liable to break than any other, besides which, when arranged round on a dish with plenty of fried parsley, by placing a tiny claw of a crab or lobstei-—one of the small ends of the lesser legs, not the pincei-s—a very ornar mental red handle can be made to the cutlet to represent the bone. While we are speaking generally on the subject of entries, we would wish to comprise under that heading savoury dishes in general; and just as in soups and gravies we called attention to the importance of having brown roux or brown thickening constantly at hand, so, too, in any establishment where savoury dishes are liked would we call attention to the importance of the cook's always having ready to hand a small bottle of what is usually called aromatic spices for season- ing. The advantage of having these spices ready is that an enormous amount of trouble is saved by having them at hand, and as they will keep for years, and a small bottle lasts almost for ever, a little exertion on the part of the cook on some day when she has little to do will have the veiy beneficial result of improving the cooking of the house for years afterwards. Before explaining how these herbs are made, I would mention a few of their, if not every-day, at any rate weekly, uses. Take the very common case of a rump-steak pie, or that exceedingly nice, and when larks are cheap by no means expensive, dish—lark pudding. Now the addition of a very small pinch of these flavouring herbs makes a difference in the flavour of the pie or pudding in ques- tion that is almost incredible; and yet when the herbs are made this improve- ment of flavour is made at a cost so small as to be scarcely appreciable. The flavour it gives to the lark pudding is particularly marked, bringing out, as it does, a gamey flavour, which, considering the exceedingly small quantity put in, will give the cook a very good notion of the power these spices possess. Again, they are of the greatest value in making various kinds of forcemeats for preser\dng game, such as hare or grouse. These herbs are best made as follows :—Take half an ounce of mace, half an ounce of nutmeg, one ounce of white peppercorns, and one ounce of cloves; half an ounce each of mai'joram, thyme, and basil, and a quarter of an ounce of bay-leaves. Have all these herbs and spices thoroughly dried, wrapping them up in several sheets of paper, one over the other, in order to avoid the goodness evaporating, and then have them thoroughly pounded as quickly as possible, and sifted through a fine sieve, and put in a glass-stoppered bottle for use. These herbs can be used for a variety of purposes, and are par- ticularly useful in flavouring all kinds of forcemeats—especially when such force- meat is made from calf's liver or calf's udder. I would here remind you that in all cases when calf's liver is used for forcemeat for dishes in which any kind of game is introduced, that the addition of the liver of the game itself makes a vast improvement to the flavour. When game is plentiful there is never any difficulty in obtaining livers from the poultei-ers, who are obliged to throw away a considerable quantity every day, as the iiver is apt to get high long before the rest of the bird. ,Ivii PRINCIPLES—ENTRIES. It is in the preparation of entr^s more than any other class of dishes that the really experienced cook wHl best exercise that primary principle of cookery- economy. . , I- 4.1, • Most educated persons in the present day have at one period or other of their Hves visited Paris-and I am speaking of the period before the war. One of the wonders of tliat beautiful city was the extraordinary little dinner to be obtained in the Palais Koyale and elsewhere for a sum of money that in England would have barely kept oflf starvation in a coffee-house. It may seem a somewhat strong statement, but I reaUy believe it to be true, that the materials out of which some of the most delicious Parisienne entrees are made are in English hotels and private houses either given to, and often refused by, an over- fed dog, or are allowed to get putrid and breed fevers by being thi-own into the dust-bki. There is an old picture—of which, probably, Englishmen are proud- contrasting the English hog and the French hog, the difference being striking as that between the fat and lean kine seen in the vision of the Eastern king of old. Alas that we should feel proud of this striking contrast!—it is but too often the case that our glory is in our shame. I fear that the contents of our English pig-tubs are a national disgrace. I have seen large pieces of bread, whole legs of fowls, &c., floating in what might be called greasy stock. The pig-tub is too often the one resource of idle and extravagant cooks, whose one idea of household management is to get rid of the odds and ends. Now a variety of nice entrtes can be made out of the cold remains of an almost infinite variety of joints. For instance, take the remains of a calf's head that has been sent to table with tongue, brains, &c., and a white sauce flavoured with marjoram. Suppose you cut up the remains into small pieces, and see that the sauce when cold is a jelly. Take a little of the tongue and the brains, and let them adhere to a piece of what is called the horn part of the calf's head; let these all get cold; see that they are nicely trimmed, slightly flour each piece and dip it into batter, and fry in some boiling fat till it is of a beautiful golden colour. Of course the batter, when it is properly made, will harden before part of the inside dissolves; this entree, therefore, has the advantage of coming to table a light-looking fritter, which when opened presents a moist inside. It is, however, essential that the fat be boiling, as otherwise the inside will melt, and break through the fritter skin. Care also should be taken in making batter for entries of this description that the batter be suf- ficiently thick. The best method of preparing batter is as follows:—Take half a pint of milk, and mix it up thoroughly with the yolk of an egg, adding a pinch of salt, then gradually add sufiicient flour till the whole has become of a consistency rather thicker than double cream. This batter should be mixed in a large basin, and worked perfectly smooth with a wooden spoon. We have before remarked on the importance of making entries the means of using up the materials that have been left from the previous day. One very useful torm is that of salmi of game. Too often the remains of game are sent up, almost as they are, cold for breakfast, the result being that a large portion is wasted, the bones being almost invariably left half picked on the plates, while the gravy that was on the dish with the hot game the day before, and into which what may be termed almost the essence of the bird has run, is very probably wasted altogether. Suppose, therefore, some remains of pheasants, partridges, or indeed any other kind of game, is sent down from dinner, a most delicious entree can be made as follows :—• Cut oft' all the best paiiis of the meat, such as the wings, legs, breast, &c., and trimIviii cassell's cookery. them neatly. Should it be found that there is not quite sufficient, very often the ad- dition of a single bird more, which can be roasted on purpose, will complete the dish. Next take all the romainH—tlio carcasses, ti-immings, &c.—and put them on to boil gently in the remains of the gravy that was served with the game the day before. After these bones have boiled so that they come out perfectly dry, send tlie gravy and the small pieces of game that have fallen from the bones in it through a wire sieve— this will have the effect of thickening the gravy, and also of imparting to it a decidedly " gamey " flavour. Add to this sauce—suppose say half a pint in quantity, or a little more—about a wine-glassful of sheiTy. It is astonishing how this glass of sherry helps to bring about a complete alteration of flavour. This salmi sauce is now complete, and the joints of game have simply to be warmed up in it, taking cai-e, if the game was sufliciently cooked on the first day, that it remains on the fire only sufficiently long to warm it through and no longer, as otherwise the game would get over-cooked, and become hard and flavourless. We have recommended sherry to be added to the sauce, but at the same time would acknowledge the superior qualities of madeira for the purpose. Unfortunately, madeira has of late years been rarely seen, though I believe there is every prospect of its becoming more plentiful in a few years' time. Madeira can now be bought from respectable wine merchants at from 36s. to 48s. a dozen, and is a far cheaper wine in quality than any sherry that can be bought at the same price. Whenever sherry is used for cooking purposes, golden sheny is better than a pale dry wine. One most important point in the serving of entrees is their appearance. The cook should endeavour to please the eye as an accessory to the palate. I will now run through a few of the most common faults that inexperienced cooks exhibit in serving various entrees. One very common one is putting too much in one dish. The quantity should always be in proportion to the dish. Indeed, I have seen dishes so piled up that, when first handed, persons have had considerable difficulty in avoiding a sort of shower of pieces on their plate. This is, of coui*se, rare; but it will be very often found that dishes are so filled that any attempt at ornament or garnish is simply impossible. Another equally common fault is, that when any entrees are served that I'equire gravy, the gravy is not only too thin but too abundant. With regard to gravy poured round entrees, few maxims can be better for the cook to bear in mind than—" Little and good." Perhaps few dishes would better test a cook than hashed venison, made, say, from the remains of a haunch, and as the same remarks would equally apply to hashed mutton, a short description will not be unpractical. We all know that generally inartistic dish called hashed mutton, once the scorn of Mrs. Gamp. Cei-tainly a large dish—large enough to hold a haunch—in which thin slices of mutton float in an ocean of thin pale gravy, surrounded by sodden sippets of toast, cut in the old-fashioned wedge pattern, does not look tempting. Suppose, however, we serve hashed venison or mutton, nicely oi-namented in a silver dish, as follows—premising that, should you not possess a silver dish, wa would recommend an ordinary vegetable dish instead :—Fii-st, make some good strong gravy with a good colour, using up the bone of the joint for the purpose; get the gravy to a good consistency, like that of double cream, dark in colour, and thickened with arrowroot in preference to brown thickening. Next, in cutting up the meat, take care to avoid pieces of skin and gristle, and also avoid having thick lumps of meat. Warm up the meat in this gi-avy, taking care, as befoi-e, not to let the meat remain in for a longer period than absolutely necessaiylix PRINCIPLES ENTRIES—GARNISHING. Should the hash be venison, a little port wine and red currant jelly can be added to the gravy; and should it be mutton, one or two onions fried soft and of a nice brown colour, and a dessert-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, will be found an improve- ment. Next, take the dish, and, having thoroughly warmed it, pile the meat up into a pyramid shape in the centre of the dish, leaving the border of it as bare as possible. Pour the remainder of the gravy gently over the piled-up meat, and place round the edge, instead of toast sippets, the following garnish :—Stamp out with some cutters a few pieces of stale bread into the shape of hearts, and fry these pieces a nice bright golden-brown colour in some lard. Place these pieces near each other round the base of the pyramid, and jjlace one—choosing the best looking— on the top of the pyramid, with a small silver arrow stuck in it. Of coui'se this method of preparing the hash will give rather more trouble than the ordinaiy inartistic method, but then the difference in the appearance of the two dishes more than repays the trouble ; the one, in fact, is an entree, and the other a dish only suitable for an early dinner for cliildren, and which, if served in the kitchen, would too often—alas for human nature!—be more than half wasted. Really, hashed m\itton, especially the remains of a haunch or saddle, nicely served the way we have described, makes an entree that no one need be ashamed of sending to table. Small crayfish make one of the very nicest-looking garnishes. If the entree, therefore, was hashed venison, a small crayfish coidd be placed at the four corners of the dish, and a small one on the top of the pyramid. To ornament hashed mutton Avith crayfish would, I think, be going a little too far. We will now take another form of ornamenting entrees, viz., fried parsley. Probably cooks are more indebted to parsley than to anything else for orna- menting their dishes. The great secret of fried parsley is, first, it must be fresh- cut double parsley, and rather dark in colour; secondly, it must be perfectly dry before it is fried. Again, the fat must be boiling, and the greatest care exercised in draining the parsley so as not to break it more than possible. The best method of frying parsley is in a little wire basket in a small deep stewpan. This basket can be easily made at home out of two-pennywoi-th of wire, by a very little exercise of ingenuity. The advantage of the basket is that it can be fitted to the stew- pan, and the parsley can be lifted out bodily, thereby rendeiing the risk of breaking very small. Fried parsley can be used to ornament or garnish various kinds of patties, the dark green contrasting well with the light-brown pastry. Fried parsley should also be served with kromeskies, croquettes, fried sweetbreads, fried oysters, lobster cutlets, and a variety of other light entries. To continue the idea of entries made from remains of joints, we will next consider the number of nice dishes made from boiled turkey, boiled fowl, etc. Suppose, for instance, the dinner has consisted of one of these, with that 'very usual accompaniment—a boiled tongue. An exceedingly pretty-looking entree can be made as follows :—Cut off the best pieces of the white meat that has been left, and make a strong white stock with the bones, which may be thickened with a little white roux, and, if possible, two or three-pennyworth of cream. Warm up the meat in some of tliis sauce, and pile it up as before in a pyramid shape on the dish, and pour the remainder of the thick white sauce over it, the sauce bein^ made sufficiently thick to what is called " mask " the surface. Sprinkle over this white pyramid, sparingly and lightly, a little rather coarsely chopped dark-green paraley, and ornament the base of the pyramid as follows :—In cutting up a<QIx oassell's cookery. turkey, stamp out some tlim pieces of white meat into the shape of cocks'-combs, or some such pattern, with a crimped edge. Also cut some thin slices of the red tongue, iuxd stamp these out in the same pattern. Wai-m uj) these slices of white meat and rod tongue in a little liot clear stock, and place these slices round the dish at the base of the pyi-amid of meat, alternately red and white, having, of coui se, the crimped edge outwards. A single small crayfish on the top of the pyramid, or a little sprig of parsley, will complete the dish. This entree, it should be borne in mind, is, in addition to being a really handsome dish, a most economical one, for, with the exception of the cream—which is not absolutely necessary—eveiything is used up, the bones forming sauce instead of being left on the plates and given to the dog in the ordiuaiy maimer. Of course tliis dish will be vastly improved by the addition of button-mushrooms and slices of truffle. When truffles are used, the alternate slices of black, red, and white look extremely nice ; or should the truffle be in small quantities, little pieces can be reserved to dot the stamped frill of the white meat— a small piece in the centre of each round. In all dishes that have vegetables served with them, much may be done to impi-ove their appearance by having some at least of the vegetables stamped of a nice pattern; even in large dishes that do not come under the heading of entrees, boiled turnips and boiled carrots always look better if roughly shaped like peai-s, and so cut that they will stand upright. When placed alternately round a boiled leg or neck of mutton, over which some caper sauce has been poui*ed, the genei'al appearance of the dish is far superior to what it would be if simply cut carrots and turnips are placed on hap-hazard. To teach even the elementary principles of making dishes look elegant is, we fear, a task beyond the power of mere words. Some persons have naturally taste, and others have not. The cook who will go out on Sunday afternoon in a pink bonnet with a blue parasol will never learn so to arrange colours in garnisliing a dish as to really attract the eye. We will, however, give a few hints to those— and we are glad to say they ai'e many—who seem to possess the power of using garnishes when they have them. First, much may be done with artificial flowers cut from tvuTiips or beetroots. For instance, a tongue glazed, with a paper frill round the root, and a nicely-cut flower made from a turnip, and just tinged with cochineal in imitation of a camelia, placed on the top, always looks an exceedingly handsome dish. The turnip flower should be stuck on to a small stick of wood, and a couple of bay-leaves tied on to the stick with it. Tliis method of ornamenting dishes, though old-fashioned, is very effective. For hot entrees and hot dishes of every description the following garnishes ^vill be found especially useful:—Fried croutons of bread cut into the shape of hearts or stars, and fried a golden-brown colour; button-mushrooms glazed, i.e., small button- mushrooms that have had some bright glaze brushed over them; pieces of white chicken or turkey placed alternately with pieces of red tongue, each piece being cut into some pattern with a cutter ; stamped pieces of vegetables, such as carrot, turnip, pai-snip, artichoke, or even the root of a French artichoke; fried pai-sley or fresh parsley; whole tniffles or tmffles cut in slices or patterns; cocks'-combs, plovers' eggs, small cray- fish, prawns, stoned olives ; occasionally, even, small slices of gherkins or the skin of a chilli. For instance, take the case of a filleted sole k la raaitre d'hotel. Place the slices of rolled grilled sole on end in a silver dish, pour a thick white sauce over them, made by boiling the bones of the sole in a little milk, thickening it with a little whitetlllNClPLES—GARNISHING. ^ rou ...K, aud se^xsoniiig with a Utile salt and pepper. Pass this sauce through a tamis to render it smooth, and take care that it is nice and thick Now place alternately on the top of each little roll of fish a smaU piece—say the size of the thumb-nail—of the br-ht-red skin of a chHli, and a slice of th6 bright outside of a green gherkin or the skin of a green chQli. What a wonderful alteration in the appearance of the dish! Yet recollect the extra cost is next to nothing, and the whole cost of the dish less than a plain fried sole in egg and bread-crumbs with melted butter. It is in garnishing cold dishes, however, that the greatest effect in appearance is generally produced. For instance, a ham plain boHed, and one glazed and orna- mented with a border of what looks like butter, what a contrast! Yet this border can be easily made with a little practice. We wHl describe how to make a ham look nice, and wiU first suppose the ham boHed sufficiently, and allowed to get cold in the water in which it was boiled, in order that the jelly, that gives a ham such a deUcious flavour, may get cold in the ham itself, instead of running out into the dish, as it would do had the ham been taken out of the liquor. Next we will suppose some nice bright glaze has been placed over the surface of the ham with a brush till it resembles in appearance a new mahogany dining-table. Next, how are we to make the bright trellis-work to go round the ham. First, take some plain white lard and melt it, and, if it be winter time, add to ".t a little plain salad oil, in order to make the mixture thinner when cold. Now take an ordinary sheet of common notepaper, and roll it into the shape of a cone j take the point of the cone between the thumb and finger of the right hand, and pour some of the melted lard, or mixed lard and oil, into the cone, and so hold the point that the lard will run out in a thin sti-eam at the end at will; i.e., so hold it that you can regulate the thickness of the stream or stop it altogether. It is now evident that you can write or even draw with this cone, as with a soft pen, making at wiU thick strokes or fine strokes. Of course to do it well a person must first be a good writer or drawer, and then have a considerable amount of practice. A very little practice, however, will be sufficient to put a plain ornamental border round a ham. My own experience is as follows. I practised on a clean, black, shiny tea-tray, as then the lard, Avhich of course hardens as it falls, could be scraped up with a knife (an ivory paper knife is best), -re-melted, and really used for the ham. On the occasion of a birthday or Christmas-time, a suitable device, such as Many happy returns of the day," or " A Merry Christmas," can be written in the centre of the ham, and a border placed round the edge. A paper frill tied on to the bone, and plenty of fresh parsley round the dish, will always ensure an inviting appearance. One of the prettiest and most useful garnishes for cold dishes is beetroot, especially for any white kind of dishes. Take, for instance, that exceedingly hand- some dish when properly prepared—a salad mayonnaise. First prepare the sauce, taking care to make it sufficiently thick, so that it can be used to mask or cover an uneven surface. It will be found best, in making mayonnaise sauce, to commence by adding the oil drop by drop on the yolk or yolks of eggs alone; do not put in the pepper and salt or vinegar till after it has got quite thick. Indeed, it will be generally found best in making an ornamental salad of any description to reserve the pepper and salt till the whole salad is mixed up together. Having, by beating the oil and egg well together, got the sauce as thick almost as butter in summer time, arrange the salad as follows :—First pile the lettuce-leaves into a pyramid shape, with the cut lobitdv inside, supposing the salad to be a lobster one: if you have a lettuce with, aIxii casskll's cookekv. good round heart to it, reserve the heart, cutting the stalk flat, so as to make it stand upright. This lieart, if you like, can be jilaced on the top as an ornament, as it is green, or can itself bo masked over with mayonnaise sauce. Next cover the pyramid completely over with the mayonnaise sauce, and place the heart of the lettuce, also covered, wo will suppose, on the top of the j)yramid. Next an-ange the small red legs of the lubster round the base of the pyramid as gaiiiish. Next take some coarsely-chopped parsley, and place little specks of green altci-Jiately with little specks of lobster coral over the white pyramid, the distance between these bright-green and red spots being about half an inch. Place also a few bright-green capers on the top and round the base of the pyramid Inside the bend of the legs should be placed hard-boiled eggs cut in quarters, stoned olives, lilleted and washed anchovies, and a few capers. Should you have a good-sized silver dish, place, if possible, a small red crayfish in each corner, with its small claws stretched out. There are few dishes that repay the trouble of ornamenting more than lobster salads, especially for occasions such as wedding bi'eakfasts or suppers. When you have a lobster salad, the red beetroot garnish is unnecessary. But suppose the salad mayonnaise is a salmon mayonnaise, or a chicken or turbot mayonnaise, beetroot will here take the place of the red lobster legs and the red coral. Red strips of beetroot can be placed in a sort of trellis-work round the base of the salad, and small specks of red beetroot can be placed on the white sauce alternately with the specks of green parsley. One very pretty garnish for cold dishes is asj)ic jelly. Make some good aspic jelly according to the recipe given on page 36, and pour it when Hquid into a large dish. Reserve a little of the jelly, and add to it a few drops of cochineal, which will make the jelly a bright red; pour this also into a similar-shaped dish, and allow the jelly to get cold. You can now cut this jelly iuto any shape you may wish—a diamond pattern is as good as any—as the jelly ^vill settle on the dish, which should have been filled about a quarter of an inch deep. You will conse- quently have alternate pieces of a bright pale yellow and bright red to place round any dish you may wish, such as cold chicken cutlets. Agaia, the trimmings of the jelly can be beaten up with two forks, and be piled up as a sort of glittering heap in the middle of any dish. Of course the simplest and most useful of all garnishes is plain green parsley, and you can generally tell by simply watching how a cook Avill send to table a common dish, like a cold roast fowl, whether she is possessed of any taste or not A cold roast turkey glazed and sent to table tastefully decorated with parsley is always a handsome dish. One very common fonn of handsome dishes is cold turkey or chicken, boned, &c., dressed with forcemeat, but modelled the shape, say, of a boar's head or a swan. These dishes are made by means of copper moulds, tinned inside, and which are rather expensive to buy. The meat is placed in the mould wann, and mixed ^vlth a strong stock, which being a jelly when cold causes all the meat to adhere together; some liquid strong stock can also be poured in after the mould has been shut together. On turning out, of course, the shape is perfect, so far as the mould itself is; it may occasionally, however, require a little trimming. This moulded dish now rcqxm-es glazing. Suppose, for instance, it is a boar's head. Get some very strong dark but bright glaze; keep the glai?e in a little basm, dissolved, placed m a larger basin into which some boiling water has been poured. In fact, heat^ the glaze just like what it so much resembles-glue. By means of two ai-tificia. eyes, aaaPrinciples—sweets—omelets. Ixlii the kernels of two brazil nuts stuck in for tusks, the resemblance becomes very perfect. Should the model be a swan, a real swan's head is generally placed on the top, and joined to the mould by means of a wire. If the mould be a pheasant, the head of the pheasant can be affixed, and wings with the feathers on placed each side, while the long tail-feathers are stuck in to represent the tail. SWEETS. We now come to consider the general principles of cooking to be observed in the preparation of that large class of dishes that come generally under the name of sweets, and will commence with that division of which eggs may be considered as the basis, such as rich light puddings, omelets, and souffles. Now, as the latter of these best illustrate the principles of cookery, we will commence with a short account of souffles in general. The chief point in regard to souffles is of course the lightness, and the lighter the souffle the better the cook. The whole secret of the lightness of a souffle is the amount of pains taken in beating the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth. By this means, when the beaten whites are added to the batter, the whole mass contains an almost infinite number of air bubbles, that expand with the heat, and cause the whole to rise. Consequently, the greatest expedition should be used in sending the souffle to table, for of course as it cools these bubbles contract, and the souffle, which probably on leaving the oven was an inch or more above the souffle-pan, sinks to an inch below it on reaching the dining-room door. Souffles can be flavoured with cheese or even game. Small souffles made from the remains of woodcock or grouse are exceedingly nice, but grea;t care shoidd be taken in rubbing the flesh through the wire sieve so as to ensure the meat being, so to speak, pulverised. Another great secret of having successful omelets is to have perfectly fresh eggs. A great deal of what may be called second-class cakes are made from stale eggs, the bakers often buying stale eggs—or, as they more delicately call them, " spot eggs "—for the purpose. These eggs, when held up to the light, will be seen to have a black spot in them, showing that they are bad. However, by breaking the egg very carefully, and pouring off the best part and reserving'the black spot, the egg can be used for making cakes. Tbis black spot and a little of the egg adhering to it is of course thrown away, the smell of the black spot being exceedingly offensive, as it emits sulphuretted hydrogen gas. In breaking eggs for any purpose, it should always be borne in mind that even with the greatest care bad eggs will occasionally make their appearance; even when eggs are taken fresh from the nest, sometimes an old egg, that may have been overlooked for months, will by accident get mixed with the new. Conse- quently, always break each egg separately, or you wHl run the risk of havincr one bad egg spoil the whole lot. ° In making an ordinary omelet, of course the eggs are all beaten up together yolks and whites, still, if you want a light omelet, the eggs should be beaten up till tHey troth In breaking the eggs, avoid what cooks call " watery eggs what I mean IS the white of an egg, to make a good omelet, should be of the consistency ot a jelly-fish, and not look thin and ran away from the yolk. The butter in the omeleH^an on the fire should also be frothed before the eggs added, and the cook should stir quickly and scrape as fast as she caoi the whole of the bottom of the omelet-pan till the eggs and butter begin to set. .lie omelet-pa. shodd then be withdrawn a little from the fii., the omLt shapeacassbll's cookery. with the Hpoon; and m the case of a savouxy omelet, the omelet-pan should be tilted in tront of an open fire, or have a good hot salamander held over iW-this wUl have the eflect of making the omelet me, and com^equently of being lighter, ^ well as shglitly browning the surface. If gravy is served with a savoury omelet, pour It rou>ul the omelet, and not over it. For a sweet omelet, always have some white powdered sugar to shake over the top. It is a somewhat open question as to whether it is advisable to mix milk with the eggs in making omelets. As a rule, the French do not add milk, and it will^generdly be noticed that omelets abroad are more yellow and streaky than in England, where it is a very common custom to add about a couple of table spoonfuls of milk to every three or fom- eggs used. When milk is used, the omelet takes a rather longer time to set than when the eggs are used by themselves. The gi-eatest difficulty cooks experience in making omelets is to avoid burning them. The fii-e should be fierce, but the omelet-pan should be withdrawn directly the omelet sets. The stirring process should also be kept up very briskly. While on the subject of the management of eggs, we may next take that very common English dish—custard. Now, just as the princiijle of making good omelets was to get the eggs set without having them burnt, so may the secret of successful custard-making be said to consist in getting the eggs to thicken without getting set. The chief point in making custard, or any form of liquid whose consistency depends upon heated eggs, is to know when to stop short of the boiling point. In" making custai'd, it will always be found most economical to use the yolks only. The whites of the eggs add nothing to the flavour or excellence of the custard, and yet are invaluable to the cook for a variety of purposes, from clearing soups to gai'nishing sweets—the latter being a point on which we shall touch on some future occasion. The best method of making custard is to first flavour the milk, if bay-leaves are used, by boiling the bay-leaves in the milk previous to adding the yolks of eggs. When, however, the yolks of eggs are added, let the mixture, i.e., the milk, sugar, and yolks, be placed in a jug, and the jug placed in a saucepan of boiling water. The cold jug will, of course, take the water immediately ofi" the boiL Keep stirring the jug till the custard begins to thicken; when nearly sufficiently thick, take the jug out of the boiling water and plunge it into some cold water, but still continue the stiiTing for some time. By this means all fear of curdling vv^ill be done away with. Should the custard be flavoured with that most delicious of essences—essence of vanilla—the vanilla should be added when the custard is getting nearly cold, by which means more of the flavour is retained. Should the custard be flavoured by vanilla in stick, it -svill be found best to tie up the vanilla in a small muslin bag, and boil this bag in the milk till the milk is sufficiently flavoured. This small bag of vanilla will do over and over again, though of coui-se the bag must be left in for a longer period each time it is used, as it naturally will lose some of its virtue every time, and will consequently require to be left in the milk for a longer period to impart whatever of flavour is left in it The flavour of the stick vanilla will be found to be far superior to the essence of vanilla sold in bottles ; indeed, the latter varies so much in quality that it is impossible to say how much should be added to any given quantity of custard. A little nutmeg should always be giuted over the surface of the custard before it is sent to table. ^Ixv PRINCIPLES—COLOURING SWEETS. In all departments of cooking probably that one comprised under the general name of " sweets " gives the greatest range wherein the real artist can exercise his skill. We will not now enter into the unpractical subject of describing how to build those magnificent but useless temples of barley sugar, &c., that figure at wedding breakfasts and gi'eat suppei-s, but will enter into the far more practical details of the frenei-al principles of making sweets look nice. As a rule, sweets are so ornamental in themselves that they do not require what may be generally called garnish. For instance, a jelly or a mould of blancmange is so pretty in itself that, provided it be bright, and put into either an equally bright cut glass dish or a silver one, it requires nothing beyond. Occasionally, indeed, little pieces of cut lemon may be placed round the edge of the dish; but this is not necessary, unless the dish be rather too larf^e for the mould, in which case the cut lemon will cause it to look less bare. The great secret of making jellies bright is taking pains in the clearing. Patience and cleanliness are indispensable; also bear in mind that jelly-bags should never be washed in soap and water. They shoiild, after being used, be simply rinsed and re-rinsed in boiling water and wrung out. One important point in making sweets look nice is to exercise some little taste in colouring. We will suppose, for instance, that there are two moulds in the house: the top of one is in the very common shape of a bunch of grapes, and the other the almost equally common shaj>e of a cucumber. Now it is at once obvious that the cucumber should be coloured green and the grapes red. Suppose, therefore, two moulds are being made of, say, blancmange. The green cucumber and the red grapes on the white base will form two very pi-etty dishes. Unless, however,, the tops are done cai-efully, the dish will present a very poor appearance—indeed, in all ornamenting, unless the decoration be done neatly, it had far better not be doner at all. Slovenly ornament in dishes corresponds to dirty finery in ordinary dress. We will suppose, therefore, the blancmange ready made and in a liquid state ready to be poured into the moulds. First pour just sufficient water into each mould to fill up the shape of the bunch of grapes and the cucumber. Pour this back figain into two glasses—claret glasses are best—and notice the exact quantity required for eacTi. Then fill the glass with the warm blancmange to exactly the same spot. Pour in the colouring matter, which will of course be cochineal for the grapes and/' spinach-juice for the cucumber. As only a few di^ops of cochineal are required, it will not matter adding such a small quantity, but whenever colouring matter is used' in which more than a few drops are required allowance should be made, or too much will be poured into the shape. When the exact quantity is coloured, pour it into tho shape, and let it set quite firm before any more is poured into the mould, If possible, set. the mould in some chopped ice, which will cause such a small quantity to set almosfc immediately. When the shape is quite set, add the remainder of the blancmange only be careful how you fill the mould. If, for instance, you simply pour the blanc- mange in, especially if it is lukewarm, the fresh quantity will partially re-dissolve what ha-s been set in the shape, and the white and red or white and green, as the case may be, will run into one another, and the effect will be quite spoilt. The best method of filling up the moulds is firet to wait till the blancmange is nearly cold—of course avoiding waiting too long, as it would then set in the basin. Then take a spoon, and pour the first part into the mould a spoonful at a time ; this will settle gently down over the coloured part, but will not mix. After the mould has been filled ^.y this means, say an inch deep, the whole may be gently poured in, taking care to pour very slowly, and to keep the vessel from which the blancmange is poured a« Iktro.—3oassell's oookehv Ixvi close as possible to the mould, for if it be poured in a manner cori-espouding to frotliing beer up in a glass it will probably break tiie coloured shaiie. There is a great art in turning out jellies from moulds. Of course, a veiy stifi jelly is easily turned out, but then stiff jelly is never good. The best moulds for jollies ai-e copper ones tinned inside. The mould, after being taken out of the ice, should be placed for a few seco7ids in lukewarm water; the disJi into which tlie jelly is going to be turned should be placed upside down, so that the bottom of the mould comes exactly in the centre of the dish; the two should be quickly turned over together, and very often the jelly will at once slip of its own accord. When the mould is first raised it should be only lifted an eighth of an inch; should tlie jelly have slipped all round, the mould can be slowly raised ; should, however, the jelly have slipped only on one side, instantly put the mould close on to the dish again. One veiy good way of causing the jelly to slip is to take the dish and mould in both hands, keeping the mould firmly touching the dish, and raise the hands high in the air, the mould being upright. Then suddenly bring the dish downwards with a jerk, and stop dead short when the hands are lowered. The jelly itself, liaving of course acquired a momentum downwards, will have a tendency to go lower, and will often by this means slip from the mould into the plate. Indeed, turning out jellies requires a certain amount of pluck : a nervous cook is far more apt to fail tlian a strong-minded one. Some persons think that shaking and patting the mould assists ; very oft^n, however, this patting results in breaking. When earthenware moulds are u'ied it is no use plunging them into warm water. Earthenwai'e conveys heat so slowly that the result would be either to convey so little heat that no effect at all is produced, or so much that all the outside of the mould vrill run. In tuming \nything out cf an earthenware mould the only way is to jerk it out as we have ♦.escribed. If the substance inside the mould is firmly set, it will be advisable to see how far it can be eased round the edge by pulling gently with the tips of the fingers. The substance is elastic, and will adhere together, and can be pulled from the edge of the mould all round, after which it will of course turn out easily. When copper moiilds are used for jellies the greatest care should be taken in dipping them into lukewarm water, first, that the water be not too warm, secondly, that the mould does not remain in too long. Of course the effect is to very slightly dissolve the outside rim—only the rim—so that the jelly will have a less tendency to adhere to the mould. One very useful form of ornamenting sweets is whipped cream or whipped white of egg. Of course whipped cream-is in itself a very nice sweet; whipped white of egg can, however, be used as a cheap substitute. Take, for instance, that most delicious supper dish—a trifle. Good trifle is made by soaking -atafias and macaroons in various kinds of liqueurs, though for ordinary purposes sherry and brandy are used instead. The whip for the trifle is generally best made some time before it is wanted, as by keeping a few hours it gets firmer instead of softer. The firmest whip is made by mixing the whites of eggs beaten up into a stiff froth with say a pint of fresh cream to two whites, three ounces of powdered and sifted white sugar, and about a wine-glassful of some rich sherry—the sweeter the better. The whole should be beaten up into a stiff froth, the froth of course being skimmed off the top when fiuflicient rises, and should be placed gently into a sieve placed on a dish. A little cream, &c., will be found to drop from the froth, and this can be poured back into the basin, the beating or whisking process being continued till all is frothed up. This froth can be made the day before it is wanted, and will be found an exceedinglyPRINCIPLES—ICING SWEETS. ixvii useful gai-nish for all soi-ts of dishes besides the trifle, as it is always easy to make more than is quite necessary for this elegant centre dish. For instance, take that nice but somewhat inelegant dish—stewed Normandy l)ippins. Let the pippins be placed in a glass dish surrounded by their juice, which can be coloured red by a little cochineal. Then take about a tea-spoonful of the wliip we have mentioned, and pile it up on the top of each pippin, and take a very few of those tiny little sweetmeats called hundreds and thousands, and sprinkle them over the whip lightly so that they stick to it, and observe what a wonderful change will take place in the appearance of the dish. The hundreds and thousands should not be added till the last moment, as they get dissolved in the whip. One very useful method of ornamenting dishes and particular cakes is what is known as icing. We all know how very handsome, and at the same time how exceedingly rich, indigestible, and expensive, a wedding cake is. We will, however, take the simple case of a child's birthday, and, naturally, a cake at tea is one of the features of the day's festivities. What parents should endeavour to do is as much as possible to please their children, but never at the expense of their health. Now a simple, plain cake can be bought, or made at home; but what a diflFerence if this simple, wholesome cake is iced over! and, after all, what is icing 1 Nothing but sugar and white of eggs; and sugar being rather good for children in moderation than otherwise, when the icing for the cake is home-made, and consequently unadulterated, there can be no harm in the children eating it. Icing for cakes can also be made into ornamental buttons, white and pink, by baking the icing on a sheet of paper, the pink buttons of course being coloured with cochineal. Icing is easily made as follows :—^Take, say for a good large quantity, six whites of eggs, and place them in a large basin, and have ready about a pound and a half of very finely powdered and sifted white sugar. Mix these well together with a large wooden spoon, adding the sugar gradually, occasionally squeezing in a little of the juice of a fresh and rather gi-een or acid lemon. This must be worked together with the spoon, and sufficient sugar added till the whole mass becomes a thick, but at the same time liquid, and somewhat shiny substance. Of course the purity of the white is of great importance, and, consequently, care should be taken in the selection of the sugar, which should be the whitest that can be obtained. This icing can be now spread over any cake, and one of the best spreaders will be found to be an ordinary broad ivory paper knife. Place a large sheet of white paper over the cake to keep oflT the dust, and place it in a warm place to dry ; then ornament the top with any wholesome sweets you may think fit, such as candied finiits of various kinds, or dried cherries. Really, icing a cake is so simple and so cheap, and gives children so much delight, that it is to be regretted it is not more generally resorted to on festive occasions. One great advantage of the icing is .that you can pass off a plain and consequently a wiiolesome cake for a very grand one ; by this means the children can have a good thick slice, and come two or three times, without being made bilious the following day. Oranges filled with jelly (see page 482) can be cut up to ornament the top of a plain cake for children. Fruit pies and puddings require but little comment. One word of warning, ]:owever, against that too common fault of mixing fruits indiscriminately. Of course r,ome fruits are improved by mixing; for instance, I consider currant and raspberry ta'-t to be the very king of tarts, but some persons are disposed to niix apples ano plums, apples and black currants. &c. As a rule, fruit pies are best, when they only contain one fruit.'^^^ ^ cassell's cookehy. The best sauce for puddmga is German custard, which is made by puttrng say four yo ks of eggs anto a small stewpan, and adding to them a couple of ounces of pounded sugar, some of which before being pounded haa been rubbed on a little emon-peel. Add a glass of golden sherry, and beat this up over a very slow fire tUl It gets wai-m and frothy, but do not let it get too hot, as should it boU it would be utterly spoilt. In rnaking sweet sauce for puddings some sherry and sugar should be added to melted butter ma^e with milk, but instead of adding brandy, as is usually recom- mended, tiy an equal quantity of inim instead. Indeed, a couple of table-spoonfuls ot rum with a little sugar and melted butter makes an admirable sauce of itself. CHEESE. With regard to cheese, little need be said: to enter into the general principles of vMhng cheeses would be far from our province. With regard to choosing cheeses, some of the best to be obtained now at reasonable prices are those that come from Canada. Some are, indeed, so similar to our own Cheddar and Cheshire that few can teU the difference. In choosing a Stilton, always select one that combines moLsture with blue mould. This is by far the best cheese of the country. What is the secret of its composition that makes it so far superior to other cheeses I cannot say. How- ever, be on your guard against a worthless imitation which resembles it in shape only. Pei-sons attempt to sell this cheese as a sort of Stilton. Its outside is smoother than genuine Stilton, and its inside inferior in flavour to Dutch and common American. The best of foreign cheeses are Brie and Camenbert; they are, however, not very easily bought, except in that most luxurious of neighbourhoods in London Soho. Parmesan cheese is thought by many an improvement to soups, and in Italy is almost invariably handed round with every soup served. BREAKFAST AND LUNCHEON. We will now run lightly through the ordinary daily duties of a cook, finishing up with that greatest of events in the every-day life of each Englishman—his dinner. Of course the cook must consider herself responsible for the larder and its contents, and should consequently be careful not to allow bloaters, haddocks, lobsters, crabs,. &c., or any strong-smelling thing of a similar description, to remain among the cold meat, butter, &c. Again, care should be taken to keep the larder scrupulously clean, and the shelves, especially if of wood, should from time to time be scrubbed. Let me here also warn servants generally against that too common practice of putting meat on the wooden shelf instead of on a dish or slab. For instance, the butcher sends perhaps a couple of pounds of gravy beef, and a careless cook, in hot weather, places this piece of raw meat on a wooden shelf, the result being that the blood adheres to the shelf, and becomes a fruitful cause of contaminating the whole larder. The fii-st meal of the day is of course breakfast. I believe a substantial breakfast to be most conducive to good health, yet too often we find this meal the most neglected of the day. A good breakfast and a light lunch are far better than a light breakfast and a heavy lunch. The cook should always send up to breakfast any cold joint of meat that is in the house; the cold joint being placed on a good-sized clean dish, all -.vafere of fat that have settled from the gravy being first removed, and the whole joint nicely ornamented with fresh parsley. The parsley that has decorated a cold joint will always do to use for cooking purposes, so there is no need to ornament the joint with a stingy hand. One of the most common of breakfast dishes is friec.PRINCIPLES—BREAKFAST lilSHES. UcoxL Here, a-ain, let the cook be careful to have the dish thoroughly hot, or else the fat from the°bacon will settle and get cold in the dish, and make it look far from teraptin<- Fried bacon is a very good test of a cook for one reason, viz., it tests tlaat elementary principle of cooking—cleanliness. Next time you have a dish of hot fried bacon, observe the fat, and see if it is streaked with black, if so, it shows the cook does not properly clean her frying-pans, and no good cooking can ever proceed from du-ty cooking utensils. Bloaters should always be split open like a haddock, and cooked on a gridiron kept for the purpose. The gridiron should be rubbed with a piece of mutton fat to prevent the bloater from sticking. After the bloater is cooked, rub a little piece of butter over the inside, which makes it look rich and moist, and improves the flavoui-. One great advantage of cooking bloaters this way is, you avoid that dreadful gush of oflFensive steam that issues forth on opening them when they are cooked whole without first being opened. Indeed, the great drawback to bloaters is the unpleasant odour. In poaching eggs, it will be found that they assume a white api^earance when a little drop of vinegar is mixed with the boiling water in which they are poached. •Great care should be taken, however, to drain off the water from the flat strainei -used for taking out the eggs, as they will otherwise taste acid. In frying eggs, be sure to trim them so as to have tlie yolk in the centre, sun-ounded by a neat rim of white. Too much fat in the frying-pan is conducive to increasing the large bubbles, and to sometimes even breaking the yolks of the 'CSffs. Take care also that the fire is not too fierce, as then the under surface of the «gg will get burnt and taste disagreeable. Sausages are always best home-made, for the best of reasons, viz., that you then, ■and only then, know what is in them. Every house should have a small sausage machine, which, in addition to making simply sausages, will make rissoles, force- meats of all kinds, as well as croquettes. Indeed, a small hand sausage machine repays itself quicker than almost any other kind of kitchen utensil. Sausages are best served up on toast, then the fat that rims from them can be poured over them and soaked up and eaten, and not emptied to help to swell that household disgi-ace— "the cook's grease-box. Kidneys should be cooked so as that they retain the red gravy : they are nicest done on the gridiron. After they are taken ofi", a little piece of butter should be placed in the inside of each, and a tiny pinch of chopped parsley dropped on the butter. In many houses it will be found that the staple breakfast dish is cold bacon and boiled eggs. Now, although new-laid eggs are very nice boiled, yet they are often difficult to get, and when bought are, especially in the neighbourhoods of large towns, very expensive. Shop eggs are only eaten boiled by persons whose palates are, to say the least, not very keen. Why not, however, make the eggs you boil and the butter you spread on your bread into a savoury omelet ? Take say three eggs, two ounces of butter, a little jjepper and salt, a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, and a piece of onion or shallot the size of the top of the first finger, and chop that finely with the parsley, and you have a far mox'e palatable method of serving the eggs. The omelet, being eaten with plain bread, becomes quite as economical, and far nicer. Luncheon is generally a make-up meal, at which it is lawful to serve up half fowls and cut tarts, and is so comprised in the details of that greater meal, dinner, that in fjimpiy observing that what is left from dinner can generally be utilised at luncli, wecassell's cookery. Ixx will at once pi-.-xseed to discuss that great event of the day, and will run Ijiieflv through the general jirinciples to be observed in serving a dinner for say ten or more persons. DINNER. We -will first have a few words to say on that somewhat neglected Englisn accomi)animent, appetisei-s." First appearances go a great way, and the cook shouid exercise all her art and taste in presenting that delicate organ, the stomach, with a hon houche to induce it tc> throw out its gastric juice with no sparing hand, in order to dissolve and digest all the glories that are to follow. Perhaps the very best com- mencement to a good dinner is half a dozen native oysters—small, round, white, plump, and fat, and resting on a little shell black almost on the outside, but like mother-of-pearl when the delicious little fish has been swallowed. Brown bread and buttsr Is often sex'ved with oysters; but when eaten as an appetiser at the commence- ment of dinner they should be eaten quite alone-—no pep]>er, no vinegar, &c. Little natives are excellent appetisers : the large coarse oysters, though admirably adai)ted for stewing and for a variety of cooking purposes, have rather a contrary effect. In France it is customary to have little dishes of what we term appetisers placed in front of each person. I will mention a few of the best:—Olives, sardines, pieces of Dutch herrings, filleted anchovies, capers, and small radishes. There is one little appetiser, so pretty and yet so effective, and so admii-abl}' adapted to commence a dinner, that I will describe it. First cut out some small round pieces of stale bread the size of small draughtsmen, and fry them of a nice golden-brown colour in some lard, and allow them to get cold. Next stone some olives neatly, and fillet and carefully wash some anchovies. Roll up the filleted anchovies into a little ball, and fill the stoned olives with them. Next place a little drop of mayonnaise sauce about the size of the top of the little finger in the centre of each round of fried bread, and place the stoned olive filled with the filleted anchovy on it on end; the mayonnaise sauce, if made properly, viz., as thick a.s butter, assisting to keep the olive upright. Then place on the top of the olive another little piece {very small) of mayonnaise sauce. Tlie whole should be eaten at one mouthful. The mingled flavour of the anchovy and olive, moistened as it is with the mayonnaise sauce, is exceedingly delicious, the crisp fried bread assisting to bring out the flavour. These pretty little appetisers may be handed round, and a little highly-flavoured aspic jelly may be placed by way of garnish on the dish with them. We next come to the soup, which we presume the cook to have prepared the day before it is ?/anted. As a rule, it will always be found best to have clear soup, ie., if only one soup is supplied. A thick soup at the commencement of dinner is too heavy, and is apt to spoH the appetite for what is to follow. For instance, thick mock-turtle or thick ox-tail soup are admirable for lunch, but at dinner are far better clear than thick. Should there be two soups, of coui-se one should be clear and the other thick, but, as a rule, even then the thick soup should be in the form of a white soup or a bisque, rather than a thick soup that owes its thickness to brown roux. Clear turtle is far superior to thick, both in flavour and in tlie faci that it does not take away the appetite so readily. Next follows the fish. If only one is served at dinner, regard should be had to what goes before and what follows after. For instance, a rich soup had better be followed by a plain fish. Indeed, the gi-eat jn-inciple to be constantly borne inPRINCIPLES—SERVING DINNER. Ixxl mind in ordering a dinner is to avoid a succession of rich things, and also to avoic: a repetition of "the same flavour. For instance, it is obvious to any one hov' exceedhicrly disagreeable three dishes running would be as follows :—Bisque of lobster for soup "turbot and lobster sauce for fish, and lobster patties for an entree. Still, it will often be found that cod-fish and oyster sauce are immediately followed by oyster patties. Some repetition of flavour during a dinner, is, however, unavoidable. Suppose, then, in a dinner where there are four entrees, you have lobster sauce with the fish,'the same lobster that made the sauce, wOl in addition make a very nice disb of lobster cutlets. Warn, however, the servants in handing the entrees to hand round the lobster cutlets last of all, so that there is a choice of three dififerent dishes between the lobster sauce and the lobster cutlets. Too often in small houses, where the extent of kitchen range and kitchen utensils are necessarily limited, when delay or confusion ai-ises in a dinner, it is owing to a want of forethought in those who order the dinner. The dimier should so be ordered that at any rate a certain number of the dishes can be prepared and finished beforehand. Again—and such cases are very numerous—where, perhaps, there is orAj one servant to wait, regard should be had to the dishes ordered. For instance, contrast the trouble to both cook and waiter given by the two fishes—boiled salmon =ind stewed eels. The stewed eels can be prepared and finished early in the day, ,aid simply requh-e putting into a hot dish. In serving the stewed eels, the waiter has merely to go once to each person. With regard to salmon, it must be of course boiled at the last moment; it also requu-es some fish sauce, as well as cucumber. In addition, therefore, to takmg the fish to each person, there is the sauce to be handed, as well as the cucumber, and, probably, in n.ddition to the last sauce, many will ask for some anchovy sauce, or cayenne pepper, &c. : the one waiter will get muddled, and forget to take round the wine. I do not mean that this is necessarily the case; but when persons give little dinners, and know that their servants are not altogether first-class, a little fore- thought in ordering will often save an infinity of trouble. It is, indeed, quite possible to order a dinner, and a small one too, that implies so many saucepans in use at once that the establishment is not equal to the task, nor the fireplace large enough to hold the saucepans, even were they in sufficient quantity. Avoid, also, in ordering dinner, to have too many entries or other dishes that can only be done the last moment. For instance, fried oysters, kromeskies, mutton-cutlets, and a savoury omelet, would be a sore trial to a cook were they ordered as four entrees together. The probable result would be that the kromeskies and fried oysters would be cooked before and warmed up in the oven, the result being that the outsides of the kromeskies would be heavy and the oysters tough. The cutlets would also be cooked and kept warm for a time. Now of all dishes there is probably none so dependent on immediate serving as cutlets. Warmed-up cutlets are never fit to eat. Indeed, the cook should never begin to cook cutlets till three or four minutes before they are wanted. They should be red and juicy inside, or they are not worth eating. A nice mutton cutlet, i.e., as I have said, red inside, and not blue and black out, is a certain sign that the cook is good. No dinner can be properly served unless there is a perfectly good under- standing between the cook and those waiting at table. It be found very desirable for the cook to arrange beforehand some signal with those up-stairs, in order that she may know when to commence getting ready any particular diqkIxxii CAS.SKLL'm OUOKKllY. It IS SO easy for those waiting to touch the dining-room bell in order to warn the cook. Too often the cook, from over-anxiety, will become fidgety, and get everything ready too soon, the result being a series of over-cooked dishes, either half cold or having that warmed-up taste which so often spoils them. It Ls far better at dinner to have occasional pauses, than to liave a series of si>oilt dishes. Indeed, a little management on the part of the host or hostess will very often smooth over these awful pauses in the middle of dinner. A little intentional delay over eating what was last handed and a brisk conversation are great helps. The wine can also always be taken round while waiting for the cook to send^ up the next dish. In fact, after persons have had some soup or fish and an entree, a pause is rather agreeable than otherwise, unless it is accompanied by a dead silence, which makes everybody uncomfortable. Probably the most constant failure at dinner-parties—I use the expression in distinction to every-day dinners—is the ;nVce de resistance. Cooks will hurry with the joint. How often will it be seen that the joint is placed on the table imme- diately the fish is removed, and there kept till all the entries are handed round and eaten and the plates remox^ed. In addition to this, probably the cook took the joint off the spit or out of the oven long before it was even sent to table. Indeed, I have known cooks take down the joint because they say they want to get at the fire. The consequence is that when the cover is removed no steam rises, the meat is warm, but not hot, and alas! alas! the graxy in the well of the dish is caked over with an icy sheet of fat. In fact, the joint is not worth eating. What should happen is, that after the last entree has been eaten, and a hot plate put round to each person, the joint should arrive. Never mind waiting even two or thi-ee minutes, but when the cover is lifted, the rush of steam—for we presume a hot and a really hot cover—will more than make amends for the slight delay. A nice hot haunch or leg of mutton with the gravy in it red and that outside steaming is one of the nicest dishes sent to table. On the other hand, lukewarm, flabby mutton and cold gravy are absolutely disagreeable. Nothing spoils a dinner more than feeling the roof of the mouth has got, so to speak, encrusted in mutton fat. Now, sending a joint np to table as we have said, hot and at the right moment, requires management and forethought, and very often the cook does not possess either of these requii-ements, and the mistress of the house, when she finds the cook wanting in these respects, should take the responsibility on hereelf Indeed, sometimes it is necessary to give positive orders with regard to the ioint being taken down. The cook may be fussing down-stairs in the firm belief that she will be all behindhand, and that the people above will be kept waiting. But let her fuss, but obey her orders, and not take the joint off the spit till she hears the bell ring. After one or two successful results, the cook will herself see how feasible it is to wait, and she may be rewarded afterwards, perhaps, by hearint from the neighbours' servants that their master or mistress lias said they like dining, at Mr. 's—the dinner always comes up so nice and hot. We have before called attention to the fact that in nearly all private houses at dinner-parties the game is invariably over-cooked. What cooks should do, is to endeavour to learn by experience. For instance, let every cook, when she sends un the soup, look at the kitchen clock—suppose the dinner is for ten persons, and that it consists of soup, fish, four entries, two joints, and game. Let her then again look at the kitchen clock when the game is asked for, and act accordingly anotherIxxiii PRINCIPLES—SERVIXG DINXER. time. It is quite impossible to lay down any exact i-ule for the length of a dinner, which indeed varies, some houses being always—I don't know why—quicker than othei-s. Perhaps the difference is dependent on the host's conversational powers. The success of dinner very much depends upon the forethought of those who wait. Fii-st, let the cloth be laid a good hour before dinner, and let the waiter remember this one gi'eat principle of success—Let everything be in the room that is possible beforehand. No dinner can be successful when the waiter or waitress has iii-st to run down-stairs to get some more bread, then to disappear again for the i-ed-curi-ant jelly to hand with the mutton, or the mustard with the beef, and so on through dinner. It is so easy to look ahead. Again, it is shocking bad management to have to open fresh sherry in the middle of dinner. If champagne he served, either have enough or don't give any. I consider one bottle of champagne sent round for eight or ten persons far worse than giving none at all. Have also the wires of the champagne bottles taken off beforehand : it saves time. It also saves time to put a good-sized piece of bread to each person at starting. It is quite i-idiculous to see what small pieces of bread, or what tiny little rolls, &re put round at some houses. Some persons' dinners are quite spoilt for want of bread, and bread is one of those things that even good waiters ai'e very ajjt to forget to hand of their own accord. It is not pleasant at dinner, unless you are very intimate with the people, to have to ask for things. Let each person remember in Jiow many instances tlieii* dinner has been sj)oilt by the want of bread, and at any rate I'esolve that in their own houses they will take precautions not to spoU the dinnera of their guests. It is a good plan to tell the waiter to hand round some bread early in the dinner, and have it cut up, some large pieces, and some small Some persons are what may be termed greedy bread-eaters, and by this means you give them a chance to help themselves. It is exceedingly annoying to have a nice piece of partridge or woodcock getting cold on one's plate, and to see it and smell it while waiting for bread. It will always, too, be advisable to have the bread so kept that it is what may be called a happy medium between being too new and too dry. New bread should never be eaten with meat, as it is exceedingly indigestible. The meat in sandwiches which is cut from new bread is apt to turn bad very quickly, and it will be found that new bread eaten at duiner has the unamiiible tendency of causing the dinner to disagree. One very important point essential to the good order c: a dinner is that the cook or head-waiter should calculate beforehand the probable number of plates, knives, and forks that will be required, and to be prepared, so that the supply of either does not fail. We will take the ordinary and simple case of a dinner-party of twelve pei-sons, the dinner consisting of soup and fish, four entrees, two joints—say roast beef and boiled fowl—game, and sweets—the latter being pie and pudding—and four side dishes. Now there are probably very few establishments that would be capable of going through a dinner of this description without washing up some things during the time dinner is proceeding. First, there will be required twelve soup plates^ and twelve dessert-spoons. Now, unless the plate chest is of an unusual magnitude, these same dessert-spoons will probably be again required for the sweets, as should these latter be at all of good quality a relay of spoons may very possibly be required tor them. But it is the large forks that will be found to require the gi-eatest care. For mstance, supposing m the dinner we have mentioned that each person ISTRO.—3*^^^^^ CAS8ELL8 COOKERY, takes lish, two entries, a slice off one of the joints, and some game—a fail- average, we beUeve, of what ordinary healthy people would eat. Thia means sixty lai-ge silver forks, and probably the establishment only boasts twenty-four. What is universally done, even at large public dinners, is for the forks to be quickly washed immediately they are taken out of the room. For this purpose there should be two good-sized jugs just outside the dining-room door, one containing hot soda and water, and the other plain cold water; also there should be handy a couple of cloths. As the forks ai-e cleared away, let them be fii'st wiped on a dishcloth, then jjlunged into the hot soda and water, and shaken biickwards and forwards for a few seconds, and then plmiged into the cold water and again rinsed, and then dried on a clean cloth. A dozen forks can by this means be washed under a minute. Now exactly the same principle applies to the plates as to the forks, only these latter of course must be washed up down-staii's. In the dinner in question, sixty lai'ge plates would be as requisite as the sixty large forks. Should there be therefore two persons waiting at table, another person acting as a messenger between the dining-room and kitchen and the cook down-stairs; if each and every one of these persons understands his and her duty, there should be no delay, no confusion, and Above all no talking or whispering on the part of those waiting. The cook down- stairs should have ready at the commencement of dinner two large tubs, one full of hot water with plenty of soda in it, the other full of plain hot water. The jjlates should be treated just like the forks, first scraped or wiped—the former is the best, and there are indiarubber combs sold for the purjDose—next plunged into the hot soda and water, and again wiped with a dishcloth; then rinsed for a few seconds in the hot water without soda, and then allowed to di-ain on the rack, or they may be quickly wiped. In washing up in the ordinar-y method, it is customary to wash the plates in hot soda and water first, and then rinse them in cold water. In washing up, however, during dinner, recollect it is necessaiy that the plates should be hot. Consequently, by rinsing the plates in hot water to get rid of the soda and water the temperature of the plate is maintained, though, of course, if there was sufficient time it would be advisable to place the plates on the plate-warmer. WASHING UP. I would, however, here give a few words of advice to cooks about this very subject of washing tip, which is highly important. Now you all know how very quickly a dozen plates are washed up, supposing they ai-e wanted immediately for the dinner that is going on. Probably the dozen dirty fish plates and the two dozen plates used for the entries are quickly washed. Yet how is it that you will not persevere and wash up -all the things as they come down-stairs, down to the cheese plates, instead of as a rule only going on washing as long as you know the things are wanted inunediately ? Half an hour's more perseverance at the time would probably save you two hours' work later on. Yet it is your custom to give up washing as soon as you know they have got enough to finish with up-staii's; and consequently, after dinner is over, the wash-house or back kitchen, as the case may be, presents the appearance of stacks of dirty plates getting cold, the grease hardening and settling on them, while heaps of dii'ty forks and spoons are lying by the side. The amount of trouble that would be saved by washing all these up at once is somethuig wonderful. Recollect that the time taken to wa,sh up two dozen plates is not double the time taken to wash one dozen. What occupies the time principally is gettmg the things ready—the hot water, the- tubs, &c.Ixxv PRINCIPLES—WASHING UP. Another point for the cook to bear in mind is that joints on being removed from the table should never be allowed to get cold or to be put away in the dish on which they were sent to table containing the gi-avy. Let the joint be placed on a- cold clean dish, and let the gravy be poured off through a small strainer, in order to get rid of the fat on it, into a small basin, and be put by: this gravy being useful for a variety of purposes, either to act as gravy again, or it can be added to the:stock; or should there be very young children in the famHy it can be made into a dish'of bread and gravy for the early dinner. Another point of warning to cooks in reference to their usual method of pouring away the dii-ty water in which things have been washed. They empty the lai'ge tubs into the sink, causing the sink to be some inches deep in water, and which requires time to run do^vn. However, impatience is natui-al to all of us, and too often, to save time, as they imagine, cooks will pull up the strainer in the sink bodily, upon which the water goes down fast enough, finishing with a gi'unt of satisfaction. But, alas ! in addition to running a considerable risk of blocking up the pipes, this is the fruitful cause of losses of all'descriptions in the shape of forks, spoons, &c., that get overlooked in the sink, and that get sucked down with the water. A case once came under my immediate notice, in which the pipe leading from the sink to the drain was blocked up, the cause being that no less than five steel knives were found wedged in the pipe near the bend, all of which had necessarily got down, owing to the foolish habit of lifting the strainer. Again, these strainei-s are used as traps, in order to prevent unpleasant odours rising in the house. A strainer once lifted is very apt to be forgotten, and the sink is thus often put into open communication with the drain ; the sewer gas rises in the house, spreading the deadly seeds of fever. The same remarks that applied to the washing of plates and spoons and forks apply equally to the washing of glass. Glass should always be washed in plain cold water. Now it is evident that a tumbler, say that has contained stout, or a wine- glass that has contained port wine, be easily washed when moist, but that if the stout or port be allowed to get dry in the glass that some time will have to be exjiended in cleaning it. Directly glasses are brought down-stairs they should be rinsed in cold water and turned upside down to get dry by themselves. Wet glasses take a long time 'to diy, and when dried generally present a fluffy appearance,' that necessitates their being re-wiped. Let, therefore, the glasses dry themselves, and when dry let them be polished with a good large soft leather ; and, whatever 3'^ou do, do not use the glass leather for any other purpose save that of polishing the glass. Again, glasses when dried with a cloth are very apt to break, especially those that have very thin stems, as the cloth sticks to the glass, and in twisting it is apt to crack. V/hen, therefore, a leather is used care should be taken that it is perfectly dry, as a damp leather is as liable to break glass as a damp cloth is. When dimier is brought to a close, those waiting should bear in mind that their first thought should be the table. It will sometimes be found that in clearing away this is overlooked, and that the waiters begin what may be termed clearing the room before they finish clearing the table. The one thought should be, not to keep people waiting one instant longer than is absolutely necessary. Consequently, it is more important to put the wine glasses, wine, (kc, on the table than it is to get rid of some of the things that may have been left from the diimer in the room. W^here there are two persons waiting it will be found a great saving of time if one carries a large tray in both hands whilst the other removes the things quickly and quietly from the table and places them on it.Ixxvi cassell's cookery. There is one point in connection with dinner that should never be forgotten, and that is the importance of having a 7,imu. When the dishes are not placed on the table a nienn is absolutely essential ; and evan when the dishes are placed on the table it is always desirable to know—tirat, what the dishes are; secondly, what is going to follow. In many private houses a menu is omitted Ijecause the Lost and hostess think that having one has the appearance of ostenti\tion. This is, however, a very mistaken notion. How often do pei-sons pass by i)erhaps theii- favourite dish simply because they have taken something before, not knowing it was coming. Again, how often would some small eaters decide on say a second piece of mutton or not according to whether game would follow ! There is a story told of some great gourmand, who was taken in by a friend in the following manner :—A leg of mutton waa placed on the table, and the gourmand was informed that he saw his dinner before him, and, as was his wont, he accordingly ate freely, while his so-called friend scarcely touched a mouthful. What the gour- mand's feelings were when a tine splendid haunch of venison followed the mutton can better be imagined than described. He is reported, however, to have said, " It was a cruel thing not to have told me." Whether such a piece of exquisitely bad taste was ever perpetrated or not we don't know, but the story serves to illus- trate our point aljout the menu, as without one recollect, to a lesser extent, the guests are treated like the unfortunate gourmand. Little decorated sheets of paper are now sold for the purpose, and form an additional ornament to the dinner-table. When all the plates and glasses are cleared off the table, it is customary for all the cnimbs likewise to be removed; for this, however, avoid usuig those useless things called crumb-brushes, which are the means too often of sending nearly as many crumbs on to the floor as on to the tray—as when the brush is used quickly the bristles bend and cause the crumbs to fly over the edge. There is a small silver shovel now used for the purpose, which is far better, and when one of these is not at hand, an ordinary table-napkin will answer very well. COFFEE. Before coming to that most important subject, wine, let us have a few words to say about coffee. Coffee, we all know, grows in tropical climates, ^nd not in France, yet how is it that in that country we almost invariably get a good cheap cup of coffee, and yet in this country we rarely do 1 On the other hand, it seems equally strange that the French have not the power to make an ordinary cup of tea. Such at least is my experience of the greater pai-t of France. I believe the two cliief causes of the usual superiority of French coftee over English is that the former always have their coffee fresh roasted as well as fresh ground ; secondly, that they use a good deal more coftee than we do. The too common custom in England is to buy the coffee x-eady ground from a grocer's. This when kept in a tin will make very fair good coffee, but after a time it loses its aroma. To get coffee absolutely fresh roasted is not so easy a matter in this country, but it will always be found an improvement to put the berries for a short time into the oven before grinding them. There is such an infinite variety of machines for making coffee that we cannot possibly enumerate them all. The best method I know of is the ordinary percolator. The coffee-pot must of course be first made thoroughly hot, and the sti-ainer carefully cleansed from what has been in before. The coffee is then placed in the top receptaclePRINCIPLES—COFFEE—WINE. IxXVU -nd pressed down, Mnd the boiling water poured on the top. It should then be allowed to trickle slowly through-of course the longer the water is in contact with the coffee the better it will be. , „ , x ^ j When coffee is not quite bright it will often settle bright when allowed to stand for some time. Indeed, the old-lashioned plan of putting the coffee into a coffee-pot and boilin^ it over the fire is by no means a bad method, only the coffee must be allowed i a long-time to settle. At any rate, this method has the advantage of getting all the goodness out of the coffee. The Mocha coffee is the best, the aroma being superior to any other kind. Coffee, too, should be coarsely gi'ound. Indeed, some persons maintain that it is best pounded in a mortar very coarsely, and not ground at all. Much less wine is drunk after dinner now than formerly, and good strong black coffee should be served up very soon after dinner is finished. Boiling milk should always accompany coffee. WINE. We now come to another subject in reference to dinner, and that is the wine. It is not, however, on the manufacture of wines that I shall treat, but on the selection, of wine. It is, of course, of the utmost importance that during dinner the fluid food should be adapted to and kept in harmony with the solid food. There can be no doubt that all persons, not merely wine merchants but the public generally, approach the subject of wine with an immense amount of prejudice, which it is absolutely impossible tb get rid of entirely. The late Mr. Francatelli, who was formerly chef to Her Majesty the Queen, and recently the manager of the " Freemasons' Tavern," and with whom I have had many conversations on the subject of the principles of cookery, has justly observed in his famous work, " The Modern Cook," that " the palate is as capable, and nearly as worthy, of education as the eye and the ear." Now w6 should recollect that our palate, especially on the subject of wine, has undergone an imconscious education, and we have certain fixed standards of excellence that are after all really only arbitrary standards. It will be found in this country that the universal feeling among the people is in favour of a good heavy port or sherry. In all the large London hospitals it is found that the poor absolutely despise any other kind of wine. On the other hand, the best-educated palates invariably prefer, at any rate with food, a light wine, such as hock or clai'et. We unconsciously in judging of all kinds of new wines compare them with cei-tain good wines to which we are accustomed—such as Clos-Vougeot—the king of Bur- gundies—or Chateau Margaux, Chateau Lafitte, or Chateau Latour—the best of the clarets—or to some fine hock, sherry, port, or Madeira. Again, all sparkling wines are unconsciously compared with champagne, such as Pommery and Greno, or to sparkling hock or Moselle. Now, although these wines are admirable in themselves, it does not follow that they and they only are standards of perfection. To say which is the finest-flavoured wine would be as impossible as to say which is the most beautiful colour, or which is the most beautiful piece of music. The world is changing very rapidly, and probably in no previous part of our his- tory have we as a nation undergone so rapid and complete a change as diu-ing the past few years. Let any one contrast the general mode of living now with what it was only twenty-five years ago. The change has undoubtedly been in favour of increase of luxury. Our fathers used to be content with a glass or so of sherry at dinner, and acassell's cookery. Ixxviii few glasses of port after, and generally took beer with diiuier an well. Claret was considered a somewhat expensive luxury, and when introduced was generally brought on only at dessert for the purpose of finishing up with, ]>eLng often drunk after port. Now, however, it is a most common custom to drink claret witli dinner instead of beer. Of course the reason is that claret, and good claret too, can be now obtained in this country at a very cheap rate. Indeed, a most excellent sound claret can be bought for IGs. a dozen—only go to a respectable wine merchant, and always taste the wine before you buy it. We will now endeavour to examine into the general principles to lie observed in the service of wme. For instance, we know that it is customary to take a gkss of Ohablis with oysters, a ghiss of Madeira after turtle soup, a glass of dry shen-y with tish, &c., but why we do so is by no means so evident. Nature seems to tell us that port wine would be unsuitable with fish, nor do we think any one would care to si[. hock, however good, with walnuts. However, we learn by experience that there are certain flavours that combine together, and apparently suit, and others that do not. For instance, Chablis after oystei-s. Oysters have a strong flavour, and a light thin wine like Chablis cleauBes the palate after eating them, and somehow the oyster seems to make the wine taste better. On the other hand, tiya glassful of champagne after eating oy.stei-s, and you will find that you cannot detect the flavour of the champagne at all. Again, turtle is a rich, glutinous soup, and after a very rich dish some wine is required to cleanse the palate of a more generous nature than Chablis or hock: consequently, Madeii-a, or good East India sherry, or rum punch, is taken. After a light entree, such as a Vol-au-vent a la Financifere, or boUed fish of any kind, or whitebait, hock or pale sherry would be most appropriate. After a rich and glutinous fish like stewed eels, or after any entree with strong rich brown gi'avy, the palate requires something rather more stimulating, and, in my opinion, no wine in the world is equal to Burgundy to drink with dinner, either with water or with- oujl;. Still, claret, though not so stimulating, is an admirable wine to di'ink after rich dishes. I think it will be found that the general principle, that the richer the dish the more stimulating must be the wine, holds true for nearly all kinds of food. For instance, roast pork is a rich dish, and it is one of the few kuids of food that persons d^ink port wine after. Roast goose is another rich dish, and it is customary after eating roast goose to have a small liquor glass of brandy. I have a little further on quoted Fi-ancatelli's opinion with regard to the ser^-ice of wine, and it will be seen that he particularly calls attention to the absurd custom of serving sweet champagne early in dinner. As a rule, however, champagne is generally dry in this country. The Duke de Montebello's sec, Pommery and Greno's extra sec, and Heidseck's Monopole, are all admirable dry ^vines, and we think the former, though not equal in repute to the two latter, is quite their equal, both in quality and flavour. . ■ I would, however, caution persona against introducing champagne early m the dinner at all, whether it be dry or not. Indeed, it will be found best if the cham- pagne be diy not to serve it till the pi6ce de resistance has made its appearance. If the champagne be at all sweet, it had better not be served till the sweets. The French taste is far sweeter than the English: for instance, you will often see a body of grown-up Frenchmen enjoying sweets and dessert, including ev sugar plums, in a way that in England is only seen with young children. Cham enIxxix PRINCIPLES WINE. pa^e ill France is almost universally dmnk after dinner in the same way m which Soukl li.uBh up with a bottle of claret. But then it shou d be remembered tha I majority of tie champagne in France is very sweet; the f-l'^XZh adantini nirly the whole of the wine that is sent to England to suit the English Ce ^Kl it will generally be found that champagne in England ho^ tlie word taste, — „ Enc^land " branded on the side of the cork, How far the French are right and we wrong, or vice versd, in thus preferring sweet champagne to dry is a matter of taste. However, there can be no dpubt that the taste for dry wines can be carried too far, and that there should be some limit beyond which the dryness of a wine should not be caiTied. For instance, take the case of the Duke of Montebello's first brand: there is the sec and the maximum sec Now, in our opinion, the latter is inferior to the former. Again, there : is some champagne in which the dryness of the wine has been carried to such a pitch as to cause it to resemble soda-water rather than wine. In fact, there has been of late vears a rage for dry wines of every description, especially port. This rage for dry "wine, like most other fashions, was carried to an extreme, and was consequently followed by a reaction. The rage for dry port has already ceased, and probably before long there will be a slight reaction in the present rage for dry champagne. We have, of course, omitted all mention of home-made wines, though recipes for making them will be found under theii' various headings in the present work. Wine, properly speaking, is the fermented juice of the gi'ape, and as this country possesses a climate too cold to allow of the cultivation of the gi-ape in any quantity, it is evident that we must look elsewhere for our supply of piu^e and genuiae wine. At present our supply is almost entirely confined to France, Germany, Spain, and Portugal, and we must necessarily at present make the various vintages from these countries our models, as, indeed, is but just, as much of the excellence of these wines is due to the care taken in the cultivation of the vines. Nothing but the experience of a number of years of trial could have brought this cultivation to its present pitch of perfection. There are, however, other countries in the world that produce the grape in great abundance, and it is to some of these countries that make wine—not so well known as our familiar port, sherry, madeii'a, claret, burgundy, and hock—that we shall have to call attention by-and-by. We shall, in particular, after running through the various well-known wines and vintages, call attention to the much-neglected wines of Australia, made from vines that are grown on our own dominions, and which, there can be no doubt, are destined to enter before long into this country in tenfold greater quantities than they do at present when their excellence is better known and better appreciated. Let those who doubt this ask their "wine mei'chant to procure them a single sample bottle of Australian dry muscat of Alexandria. Let any connoisseur of wine ask himself the simple question, Can any country that is capable of producing such magnificent wine as this fail to make a' show in the wine-producing coimtries of the world 1 But before entering into the details of the various wines, I will quote what Mr. Francatelli's opinions on the subject were, and, as I have always entertained such a profound respect for his opinions on the subject of cookery, I trust that I may be pardoned for giving the quotation at some length :— " The judicious service of wines at the dinner-table is essential to the complete success of a weU-ordered and recherche dinner; for on the manner and order in whichIxxx cassell's cookkky. this service is conducted will chiefly depend the more or less favourable judgment awarded (independently of their real claims to superiority) to the wines put before the guests. " First, let it be remembered that all possible care sliould be taken in removing the bottles from their bins, and afterwards, also, in handling them for the purpose of drawing the corks and decanting the wines, not to disturb any deposit that may exist in the bottles, for that deposit, if shaken, destroys not only the brilliancy of the wine," but impairs its flavour and bouquet. " The different kinds of sherries, ports, madeira, and all Spanish and Portuguese vanes in general, are the better for having l)eeii decanted several houi-s before being rlrank. During winter their aroma is improved by the temperature of the dining- room acting upon their volatile properties for an hour or so before dinner-time. By j^aying due attention to this part of the process, all the mellowness which good wines acquire by age predominates to the delight of the epicure's grateful palate. Tlie lighter wines, such as Bordeaux, Burgundy, and most of the wines of Italy, should b© most carefully handled, and decanted an hour only before dinner-time. In winter the decantei-s should be either dipped in warm water or else placed near the fire to- warm them for about ten minutes previously to their being used. In summer, use the decanters without warming them, as the genial warmth of the atmosphere will be all-sufficient, not only to prevent chilling the wines, but to develop their fragrant bouquet. Moreover, let these, and all delicate wines, be brought into the dining- room as late as may be consistent with convenience. " And now as regards the order in which wines should be served during dinner. I would recommend all bon vivants desirous of testing and thoroughly enjoying a variety of wines to bear in mind that they should be drank in the following order, vii. :—When it happens that oysters preface the dinner, a glass of Chablis or Sau- teme is their most proper accompaniment; genuine old Madeira, or East India sherry, or Amontillado, proves a welcome stomachic after soup of any kind, not excepting turtle, after eating which, as you value your health, avoid all kinds of punch, especially Roman punch. During the service of fish, cause any of the fol- lowing to be handed round to your guests; Amontillado, Hock, Tisane, Champagne, Pouilly, Meursault, Sauterne, Arbois, Vin de Grave, Montrachet, Chateau-Grille, Barsac, and generally all kinds of dry white wines." Having enumerated a variety of different kinds of Bordeaux, Burgundy, Champagne, and other vnnes, Mr. Franca- telli proceeds to say, " A question of the highest importance, but into which I may but briefly enter, is to determine to which of all these wines a decided preference should be given, both with regard to taste and also in respect co their influence on the health of different temperaments. It is easier to settle the latter part of th& question than the former, inasmuch as it is difficult, nut to say impossible, to lay down rules for the giiidance of the palate. Thus there are some who delight in the pei-fumed yet austere bouquet of Bordeaux, whHe others prefer the delicate fragi-ance of Champagne ; some give the palm to the generous and mirth-inspiring powera of Burgundy; while the million deem that Madeii'a (when genuine), port, and sherry, from what are termed their generous natures, ignoring the plentiful admixture of alcohol, are the only wines worthy of notice. All these tastes are no doubt well enough founded on good and sufficient reasons, and may prove safe mdicators for the^ preservation of health ; for instance, a person of sanguine temperament feels a neces- sity for a light sapid wine, such as genuine Champagne and Ehenish ^v^nes, whue the Dhlegmatic seek those of a more spirituous, generous natui-e—Burgundy, port.rRIN'CIPLES—WINE. Madeira, or sheiTy. Those who are a prey to spleen, lowness of spirits, and melancholy, are jn-one to select, as a sure and pleasant remedy for their frightful ailments, the wines of Italy, Spain, Portugal, Roussillon, and Burgundy. The bilious, who gene- rally are blessed with a good appetite, provided always that they do not smoke, require a generous wine which, wdaile capable of acting both as an astringent and a dissolvent of the bile, is of facile digestion; such are the properties of all first-class Bordeaux wines. Bordeaux is said to be a cold wine; this false notion arises out of mere prejudice—nothing can be more contrary to truth. This health-restoring wine^ as I have already stated, is easy of digestion, and possesses moreover the advantage of being very considerably less inebriating than any other first-class wine. In shorty Burgundy is exciting, Champagne is captious, Roussillon restorative, and Bordeaux stomachic. It now remains to show the order in which the several sorts of wines enumerated above should be served at table. Custom and fashion have ever had more to do with this practice than any real consideration for health or taste. It is generally admitted by real gourmets that red wines should precede the introduction of white wines— those recommended as proper accompaniments to oysters and fish excepted. The custom most in vogue at the best tables in London and Paris is to commence by introducing, simultaneously with the entrees, any of the followring Burgundy wines : —A-\allon, Coulanges, Tonnen-e, Vermanton, Irancy, Mercurey, Chassagne, and, generally, all those wines known under the specific names of Ma9on and Auxen-e. These may be varied or replaced by other -wines, denominated Saint Denis, Saint Ay, and Beaugency. Tliese again lead to the fux'ther libations of Beaune, Pommard, Volnay, Richebourg, Chambertin, Saint Georges, Romanee. "With the second course—roasts, dressed vegetables, and savoury entreimts—honour your guests by graciously ushering to their notice sparkling Champagne and Moselle, the deliciously perfumed Cumieres, the brilliant Sillery, the glorious Hennitage, Cote-rotie, and Chateau-Grille. With the service of the entremets de douceur—or, as we have it, the sweets—let iced-creaming, sparkling Champagne, or Moselle, be handed round; but^ far superior to them, I would recommend a trial of Ai petillant Arbois, Condrieux, Rivesaltes, Malaga, Frontignan, Grenache, Malmsey, Madeira, and East India Sherry." Mr. Francatelli then proceeds to state, " So little wine is drunk at dessert in this country that it would be superfluous to enter into particulars about the service further than to refer the reader to the list of wines appropriated to this part of a dinner, the list being as follows : Muscat - Fronti gnan Muscat-Lunel Muscat-Eivesalte Grenacho Vin de PaiUe Malaga Rota Alicante Dessert Wines. Madeira ]\Ialmaey, Madeira Syracuse Tokay Constance Carcavallos PicoH Schiras I have before observed that we all of us of necessity approach the subject of wine with a certain amount of prejudice, and I have consequently given at some length Mr. Francatelh's opinion on this subject, written in the year 1862 It should be remembered, too, that Mr. Francatelli occupied during his life the high positionscassell's cookeuy. Ixxxii of chef at the Kefonu Club, chef to Her Majesty the Queeu, and manager of the rreeniiisou's Tavern. It would be affectation in any one, consequently, to despise the oi)iniun of one who had had so much opi)ortunity for studying the tastes of the most wealthy members of what is probably the most luxurious country in the world. Still we must confess that in reading so goodly a list of dessert wines that, not- withstanding the great authority that penned it, we feel that it cannot be considered complete without the addition of what may be called our grand national wine—good genuine poi-t. In fact Francatelli wrote for, comparatively si)eaking, a small class who lead to a great extent aititicial lives. In treating generally the subject of the ser\'ice of wine, exactly the same general principles have to be considered as in treating the subject of food. The two chief points are : first, the habits of life of those served; secondly, the time of year, or, rather, we should say the climate. To lay down general recommendations with regard to dinner, we must first consider the mode of life of the eater. For instance, take two cases. The one of a City man, say a jobber on the Stock Exchange, who passes his day in a hot scene of intense excitement, the wear and teax' upon the nervous system being terrific. He retiu-ns home exhausted, but not hungry: the reaction of comparative rest in too many cases being spoilt by another reaction felt after taking occasional stimulants during the day, such stimulants being felt necessary at the time. Contrast such a one—and the case is tyjiical of a very large class whose brains are over-taxed, such as hard-worked banisters, lawyers, hospital jDhysicians, (tc.—contrast such a one Avith the stout jolly farmer, who rises at five, and after a heavy and substantial breakfast, passes his day on horseback, i-etm-ns home with a wolfish appetite, his sole care and anxiety being that Farmer Styles' wheat is about half an inch higher than his own. We can well understand his feelings expressed in the gi'aphic words—"None of your kickshaws !" Half a dozen oystei-s and a glass of chablis would be as unsuitable a commencement of dinner for the latter as thick pea soup and underdone roast beef cut thick, with a draught of strong home- brewed ale, would be for the former. Probably were we to take the whole of those who in this country are in the habit of drinking wine habitually, we should find that by far the gi-eater nimxber are in the habit of taking a little sheny with dinner in addition to beer, and a glass or two of port wine afterwards. A sip of sherry after soup, and a glass after both fish and sweets, seems almost necessary. Indeed, I think that where there is absolutely no wine, I would prefer to dine off the joint, or, at any rate, butchers' meat alone; but prefacing that a little good beer is far preferable to bad sherry, we will first take this most popular of English dinner-wines, and have a few words to say with regard to its selection and keeping. Sheny may be divided into two classes—dinner sherry and after-dinner sherry. I am here speakuig of comparatively cheap sherry, as of course good old Ettst India sheny worth 7s. or 8s. a bottle is exceedingly good with dmner as well as after, but then in the generality of houses we expect to get sherry that has cost from 24s. to 36s. a dozen. I know sheny can be bought as low as 15s. a dozen, even in single bottles, at least a compound called sheiTy—I have, indeed, tasted it. I should imagine that it is bought by that class of persons, who not knowing what really good sherry is, yet occasionally like to have some on theii' tables for show. Indeed, the gi^eater part of the really bad and unwholesome wine that is drunk is consumed by this class—vulgJir pei-sons who attempt to live in the same style as their better-educated, and wealthierPRINCIPLES—SHERRY. lyXTnil neighbours These persons would consume almost anything, as indeed a story that went the round of the papei-s a short time back shows. Some colliers in the North, durinc- the time when men were earning far more money than they knew how to siK>ud* walked into a hotel, and asked for some port, on the ground, as they said amon^^ themselves, of that being the wine " the quality drank." The hotel-keeper, on his reUirn after a short absence, found his daughter in the bar in the act of send- incr up a third bottle off the top shelf, where port was generally kept, two previous bottles having been drank and paid for. The bottles, however, were port bottles, but contained mushroom ketchup; and we can only say with regard to the 15s. sherry, that it would have made an admiiuble "whitewash," as Sheridan's glass is still sometimes called, on the occasion in question. When sherry is consumed in any quantity, it will generally be found best to keep it in the wood. A quarter cask contains close \ipon fourteen dozen of wine, or twenty-eight gallons. Any respectable wine merchant will supply a good pale dry dimier-wine at £15 for a quarter cask. I do not think you can depend upon a really good wine cheaper, and though a quarter cask of sherry can be bought for £10, I am confident that the wine at £15 is really the cheapest in the truest acceptation of the word. Ordinary wine of this description will be found best in the wood, nor indeed does it materially improve by being kept in bottles for years. I would here disabuse, some of your minds from a too-common fallacy. Many persons imagine that because some fine old wine is good, that therefore all old wine is good. Old bottled wine, to be worth anything, must possess a certain quality before it is bottled, or it will not merely not improve, but absolutely deteriorate, and ultimately become bad. I would illustrate this point by beer. We all know that fine strong Burton ale—^ti-ade mark A 1, as it is called—will keep for years, and improve in bottle. If, however, we bottle thin table-beer, the result is that even in one year's time it turns sour. So it is with wine—thin cheap port and sherry will not keep beyond a certain time. Good rich sherry, well selected, will keep for almost any length of time, and is always best kept in the wood. There is sherry to be got now in the wood over fifty year's of age—of course the price is very high. When this sort of wine is bottled, about six or eight years is necessary to give it a peculiar twang only obtained by bottling, much admired by connoisseurs. Good sheny of this description should be decanted some little time before it is wanted. One great advantage of di-awing off ordinary sherry from the wood is that it is always bright. Sometimes in bottled sherry, especially of a rather superior class, it will be found that the last glass or half-glass is a little thick ; in decanting sherry, therefore, bear in mind to reserve this little drop and not make the whole decanter cloudy for its sake. When sherry is known to be like this it will be found best to put a bottle upright two or three days before it is wanted ; then, if decanted carefully, and so that the light can be seen through the bottle, very little indeed need be wasted. Never throw away the dregs of any kind of wine, but have what is called a cooking bottle : the dregs of sherry when mixed together will settle down, and do for flavouring gravies, such as salmi sauce or mock-turtle soup. The dregs, too, of port -vvine do for jugged hare, venison, &c. Some sherry, especially of a very light, delicate colour, will occasionally have a slight taste of sulphur. I believe this is owing to the wine originally being carried on mules' backs in Spain in skins, which skins have been rubbed with sulphur.cassill's cookery. lais peculiar flavour, though slightly im|,airi„g tlie delicacy of the wine i, not however unwholesome. In selecting sherry, of couree every^,i„g dei^Zurl the Hotr ' " " " 8«t a line wine forX The chief point to be avoided in sherries is spirit. Some of the very chea,, ^erry contains a gi-eat deal of an exceedingly unwholesome spirit-wood pirit iact, wluch IS very mjurious. These fiery sherries are almolt the worn form of Stimulant m winch persons can indulge. Remember, therefore, in buying s'herry that there is no such thing as a bargain save at sales by auction. When any person ofiers you three sixi,ences for a shillii../ yon may depend upon it that at least two out of the three must be bad ones It U quite impossible to get a pure, wholesome wine at Is. 3d. a bottle; and it is to be regretted that such large quantities of injurious wine are allowed to be sold in this country, as well as bcul spirits. Indeed, many of the unfortunate poor who are charged with drunkenness are in reality more poisoned than drunk, and many ot those shocking outbursts of wild ferocity that too often appear in the police reports are the results of the brain being maddened temporarily by poisonous liquors. We will next proceed to discuss port—probably still the most really popular wine in this country. Much that has been said of cheap sheny applies equally to cheap port, the only difference being that port is a somewhat dearer wine than sherry. When the consumption of wine in a house is large, it will be found advisable to draw the port for every-day drinking from the wood, le., if you feel sure you will finish the cask within twelve months. When port is kept in the wood too long it is apt to lose colour and deteriorate in flavour. The minimum price at which I should say a faii-ly sound palatable port can be bought would be about £18 for a quarter cask, i.e., twenty-eight gallons, or between thii-teen and fourteen dozen of wine. Port varies very much with the year and also with the time of bottling. The most famous vintages are 1820, 1834, 1840, 1847, 1863, and 1870. The 1840 port is a splendid dry wine that still retains its colour in perfect integrity, and when authenticated will fetch a guinea a bottle. The 1847 port varies immensely, some being rather sweet. It is still a very rich wine, and when bottled early is nearly equal to the 1840, though not so dry. Very few vintages promise better than the 1870, the wine already fetching 48s, a dozen. Port wine throws a crust on the bottle, which crust should be transparent. Great care should be taken in decanting the wine not to break this cmst. Consequently the bottle, which of course is lyuig on its side in the cellar, should be moved very gently, the cork drawn without shaking the bottle if possible, the wine then poured into the decanter through a wine strainer in which a piece of fine muslin has been placed, and the wine must be watched as it is gently poured out, taking care to keep the same side of the bottle uppermost as in the bin. The moment the wine has the least appearance of being cloudy, cease pouring the wine. As long as only little pieces of the crust come out which look transparent, and which ai'e retained in the strainer, and the rest of the wine poui's clear, there is no fear of continuing to pour. When, however, the wine itself is cloudy, stop instantly, or the whole bottle will be spoiled. Recollect that port wine when not bright loses not only in apijearance but in flavour. Port wine requires great care in keeping, as it is utterly ruined if exposed to great cold. Port that has been exposed to severe frost gets cloudy, and neverPRINCIPLES PORT. properly recovera its character. The best cellars for keeping wines are those that remain at about the same temperature all the year round. A temperature of between 50 and 60 is veiy good for wine. In fact, a good cellar strikes cold in summer and hot in winter. One very common cause of wine being spoiled is bad corks, and I have often wondered at it. The difference between good and indifferent corks is so slight, that spoiling wine from corkage reminds one of the old saying, of " spoiling a ship for the sake of a ha-porth of tar." In choosing corks for bottling wine, the best plan is to take a quantity up in both hands, and smell them: should there be a peculiar musty smell, the corks are bad, and will utterly spoil a delicate wine. Port for ordinary every-day consumption is, as we have said, best from the wood. Sometimes, however, a cask of port is ordered in, and after some has been drawn off the rest is bottled. Now very much depends upon the way in which yviae is bottled. In the first place, the wine must be perfectly bright in the cask; secondly, the bottles must be not only clean, but quite dry inside ; thirdly, the %vine must be well corked, the corks must fit perfectly tight, and should properly be moistened in a little of the wine that is being bottled, and then the cork hammered down with a wooden mallet. It is by some supposed that the crust on port-wine bottles is the sediment of the wine, which has been put into the bottle rather cloudy. The wine is always bottled bright, but after bottling the wine will turn cloudy, especially in spring and autumn, of its own accord; a crust then settles and adheres to the bottle, and the wine gradually matures and improves, if it is kept at an equal temperature all the year round. Port -svine, however, that has to undergo the variations of temperature that occur in this climate will never mature at all. It is quite possible that the fact of the barbarous custom of building most modern small houses without any ^vine cellars worthy of the name will do much to decrease the consumptioi^ of port wine throughout the countiy. In selecting port wine of course as tastes differ the purchaser must judge to a certain extent for himself. In selecting from samples, I would, however, warn you against being prejudiced by price, and would therefore recommend you invariably to act as follows :—Should your wine merchant send you samples, let these same samples be marked by letters or numbers, and let the price of them be sealed up in a separate lettei\ Then taste and discuss the samples aloud with a friend, and open the letter and see how far your palate agrees with those of others afterwards. This is the only way to appx-oach wine really unprejudiced, and in speaking by-and-by of Australian wine I shall again revert to this pointy—for bear in mind that it is equally foolish to imagine wine must be good because it costs 10s. a bottle—alas! what stiiff some hotel keepers have the conscience to ask this price for !—as it would be to condemn a wine as rubbish simply because it is only 30s. a dozen. Good port is one of the most wholesome and nourishing wines that can be taken —of course being a strong wine it must be taken in moderation. We next come to claret—that light, nourishing, and wholesome wine that is now so largely consumed in this country, and which can now be obtained really good at so small a price. Keally good sound claret can be obtained at 16s. a dozen, and if the wine is imported in wood and bottled on the premises, at a far smaller cost. One great advantage claret possesses over most other wines is that it is easy of digestion, not fattening; containing as it does but little sugar, and consequentlycassell's cookery. Ixxxvi admirably aduptecl to persons who lead sedentary lives. In France, claret corre- sponds to our k;or, poor men being able to obtain a tumblerful for a penny. Notwithstanding, however, its cheapness, the French generally mix water with It. Indeed, the French are the most thrifty nation in the whole world, an<l thia economy on their part, coupled with industry, is the secret of their enormous wealth probably far greater than oui- own. Claret, like all other light wines, is best kept m bottles. Of course claret is originally kept in wood, but not for long. Claret, like port, varies very much with the vintage or year, some years being remarkably good, while others are comparative failures. One of the finest vintages ever known in Fi-ance Avas that of 1848. Well-!, ottled and well-autlienticated clarets, either Chateau Margaux, or Chateau Lafitte of 1848, will now fetch fancy prices—indeed, not very long ago there was a sale of the Lafitte at the chateau in which some of the 1848 wine fetched 100 francs a bottle, or £4 English money. There is perhaps no wine in the world that varies so much as claret; and the comparison between a bottle of good Lafitte and a bottle of vin ordinaire only shows what care and cultivation of the grape will effect. The three first-class clarets are undoubtedly Chateau Margaux, Chateau Lafitte, and Chateau Latour. These wines are generally very expensive—any good years fetching about 84s. a dozen when almost new wines. Indeed, the Chateau Margaux and Lafitte of 1870 is nearly £5 a dozen. Now and then, when the yeai- has been bad, these wines, even genuine, can be obtained very cheap. For instance. Chateau Lafitte for 1872 can be got for about 54s. to 60s. a dozen, but then it is quite a different class of wine to say 1874 or 1870, both of which are famous years. Chateau La Rose and Chateau Leoville are also good wines, though not equal to those we have mentioned. Good Chateau La Hose, however, will vie -with any wine in respect to hoitquet, possessing as it does that delicate scent corresponding to fresh-blown roses, which indeed gives it its name. In selecting claret great attention should be paid to the hoiiqxiet of the "wine —indeed many judges of wine would be able to select by the smell alone, Anthout tasting. In choosing claret, however, especially the cheaper kinds, purchasers should be on their guard against being deceived by the bouquet. Very often claret is, we will not say adulterated, but mixed with a small quantity of Burgundy, the latter being added to give it a bouquet. Thus a very inferior and poor claret is passed off as something sujierior. Experience alone will enable the taster to decide what is Burgundied claret and what is pure. The Burgundy generally used to mix with claret is Beaune, which is a splendid wine possessing a very marked bouquet. Those familiar with the flavour of Beaune will be better able to distinguish claret that has had Beaune added to it. In choosing claret very much depends, not merely on the particular name or bi-and, but on the year, and also on the time, and by whom it was bottled. Of coui-se, out of the thousands of hogsheads of claret that are imported it would be folly to expect that all would be perfectly pure vintage wines. Some persons prefer a full-boilied claret, and some a thin light wine—this is, of course, a matter of taste, but in selecting thin clarets it is essential that they should be perfectly free from acidity. An acid claret is never good. It has been stated lately that an injurious colouring matter has been used to improve the appearance of clarets : I am, hoAvever, disposed to think that these statements are exaggerations. At any rate, there is never any diflScidty in obtaining a pure Avholesome claret from any Avine merchant. Some few years ago, at the time when the ugav commercial treaty Avith FrancePRINCIPLES CLARET. Ixxxvii enabled claret to be sold at its present price in this country, it was fondly imagined by some that claret would gi-adually supersede the use of beer in this countr}\ Indeed, a great statesman publicly remarked that he looked forward to the timo when " the British workman would call for his glass of claret instead of his pint of beer." That time, however, has not yet arrived, and never will so long as the claret sold at ordinary public-houses remains what it is at present. Why this is the case, I cannot say, but the fact remains, and may be tested any day. Let any one go to an ordinary public-house—not a good hotel—and ask for a glass of claret, and the probability is that they vdW be served with some quite undrinkable compound. That claret will ever supersede beer with English workmen is of course a visionary idea, but many men would undoubtedly drink claret in preference to beer, especially in hot summer weather, were it to be got on draught cheap, and it is to be regretted that it cannot be more easilv obtained. In hot weather, too often the common beer sold quenches the thirst only momentarily, but soon gives rise to a craving for more. Claret, especially when mixed with water, is pi'actically unintoxicating, and is the best drink of any to allay thirst. B\irgimdy is a stronger and richer wine than claret, and has the reputation of being the most blood-making wine there is. As a rule, ordinary Burgundy is a trifle dearer than claret. However, an excellent and pure wine may be obtained for 18s. a dozen. It is not, however, so easy of digestion as claret. Those who can take Burgundy, and require nourishment, will find Burgundy a far cheaper wine than claret: Burgundy, like claret, varies immensely in quality and price. The best Burgundies are Clos Yougeot and Chambertin, and these wines generally fetch from 72s. to 84s. a dozen. Burgundy, like claret, is best in bottle, and should never be kept long in the wood. Good Beaune can be obtained considerably cheaper than Clos Yougeot or Cham- bertin, and is one of the best kinds of Burgundy that can be chosen for every-day drinking. Burgundy will occasionally throw a crust like port. Indeed, in bottling and keeping Burgundy almost as much care is requisite as if it were port, as Bur- gundy suifers from change of temperature far more than claret, and some kinds, like port, are apt to cloud even after being bottled in the spring and autumn of the year in sympathy with the vine—the best, and in fact only, means of prevention for what may be termed this second fermentation being equal temperature. On the subject of hock and Moselle Uttle need be said. Good hock is always bottled in tlie district in which the wine is made. A fairly sound hock can be obtained now at 24s. a dozen. Hocks, like Burgundy and claret, vary immensely in price, good Cabinet Johanisburg fetching at times as fabulous a price as famous vintages of Lafitte claret. Moselle resembles hock somewhat, only it has a slight Muscatel flavour: as a rule, Moselle is slightly dearer than hock—that is, in the cheaper sorts. In selecting both hock and Moselle the three chief points to be borne m mind are—freedom from acidity, brightness, and bouquet. Cheap hock and cheap Moselle are both apt to be somewhat cloudy, and as an almost universal rule with regard to wine it may be laid down that cloudy wine is always of infeiior flavour. We next come to what many regard as the highest of all mnes, i.e., Champagna Certainly m this country at any rate Champagne is regarded by many as the very height of luxury. There are many who look upon Champagne as a wine only to be used on great occasions, such as wedding breakfasts or the birthday of the heir, &c. Of late years, however. Champagne has been drank far more generally than it'wasIxxxviii cassell's cookery. a few years ago; indeed, in everything we see advances nowadays in the direction of hixury and extra\'agance. At what exact price good Champagne can Ije bouglit it is very difficult to say. The cheaper kinds vary iumiensely, some years being far Ijetter tlian otliera. Of the cheaper kinds, however, we shall have more to say when we come to consider the substitutes for first-class wines. I would, however, roughly state the mixumuni price at which any Champagne that is the pure juice of the grai)e can lie bought to be from 42s. to 48s. a dozen. A large quantity of wiixe Is sold in this country under the name of Champagne, much of which indeed comes from the Champagne district that really is Cluim])ague only in name. Whether this is made by using up the refuse of the grapes from which good Champagne is made, or using unripe grapes, rhubarb, gooseberries, or apples, I cannot say positively, but that the majority of cheap Champagne is unfit to drink at all there can be no shadow of a doubt. Considering the price any one has to pay for a bottle of Champagne at Epernay itself, it seems on the face of it absurd for persons to adver- tise Champagne in this country at 26,'3. a dozen. Were you, say in Paris or Berlin, to be ofiered a quart bottle of Bass's bitter ale for 4d., you would naturally feel that there was something wrong somewhere. As a rule, of course, the general principle holds good, that it is far better to give either good wine or none at all. This general principle, however, holds especially true with regard to Champagne, and I would specially appeal to those who are going to give Champagne -with a little dinner-party about to come off. Ask your conscience as to what is your real motive. Do you wish to please your guests ? or do you wish to show off]—i.e., is your motive in giving Champagne simply that of vying Avith or perhaps surpassing your neighbours ] If the former is your motive, and you can afford it, lay in some Champagne of a really good brand, 66s. to 72s. a dozen; have it cool, i.e., nearly freezing, a degree or two above freezing-point; and whatever you do, don't put ice in the wine if the Champagne is really good—and it ought to be at the price I have named—it is a barbarous custom. Next, let your guests have enough, I should say a fair allowance is a bottle between two pei-sons. Do not, however; open one "bottle, and then ask if anybody will have any more. If you do, every one will say, No, thank you." On the other hand, if you open a bottle first and take it round, every single one will have a second glass, and a good many a thii'd. Indeed, we feai', some woidd continue till they pronounced truly rm-al as "tural lural." If you cannot afford to give good Champagne and still wish to give your guests a treat, lay in a stock of Bass's strong Burton ale, A 1. I think it fetches nearly Is, 6d. a bottle. Let this be in good condition, and let the bottle stand upright in a moderate temperature for a week before it is opened. The ale is rather lugh coloured, Tjut when perfectly bright and sparkling, with a rich creamy froth on the top, a glass of it is worth all the cheap Champagne in the world put together. Indeed, there is as much difference between this ale and ordinary draught beer as there is between Chateau Lafitte and vin ordinaii^e. There are so many different brands of Champagne that it would be almost impossible to enumerate and criticise them all. I have before mentioned the Duke of Montebello's Champagne, which is a somewhat neglected wine, seeing that the i:arte blanche both of the maximum sec and ordinary sec is quite equal to any of the highest-class brands, and can be obtained at a cheaper price at present. If called upon to say which Champagne is entitled to take first prize, I should say Heidsieck s IMonopole. Pommeiy and Greno, or, rather, Pommery et fils, as I think the firm isPIUNCIPLES—SPARKLING WINES. Ixxxij; now called, Mo(jt and Chandon—especially for their Brut Imperial, which is a very fine wine—and Roederer all rank very high. I would also mention Jules Mumms, Iluinart pfere et fils, Giesler, Perrier Jouet, Wachter, Piper, Veuve Clicquot, <fec. The last of these is a fine wine of excellent bouquet, but not altogether adapted to the English palate, as it is a somewhat sweet wine. However, during the last few years a new kind of wine has been imported called Veuve Clicquot (sec), which is well worth a trial. Of all Champagnes, perhaps Moet's is the best known, and this wine seems to be universally chosen by publicans as the one wine they keep. Champagne is best kept in a cooler cellar than that which is requisite for Ports, Clarets, or Burgundies. Great cai'e should also be taken in seeing that the bottles are placed on their sides, as if Champagne is kept for any length of time upright it will become flat. Champagne is generally imported in wooden cases, and it is usual to keep the wine in these boxes, which are, as a rule, marked " Keep this side up," iis a guide how they should be placed before they are opened. We have now run through the genei-al wines drunk in this country, viz.. Sherry, Port, Claret, Burgundy, Hock, Moselle, and Champagne. There is one wine, however, once most popular, but that of late years seems to have gone out of fashion, and that is Madeira. There seems, however, a strong probability of this wine coming in again. The vines in Madeira, which so completely failed some few years ago, have very much recovered. Good old East India Madeira, such as ls now rarely to be obtained, save at a public dinner of some City companj'-, will bear comparison with almost any wine in the world. The new Madeira now imported is, for its price, really a far cheaper wine than sherry, the principal drawback to it being it is somewhat sweet. However, in a few years' time there seems every probability of Madeira recovering its lost position, and those who possess good cellars might certainly make worse speculations than that of laying down some of the new Madeira, which they can get at about 48s. a dozen. There is good sound Madeira to be got at a far cheaper rate. The objection of sweetness is fatal to a large class of wines, and as the public taste just now runs upon dry wines, it is a bad time to attempt to introduce any wine save those that possess this quality. The consumption, for instance, of Sparkling Hock, Sparkling Moselle, and Sparkling Burgundy is less in proportion than that of former years, owing to the difficulty of obtaining these wines dry. Sparkling Hock has too often a tendency to acidity. Sparkling Moselle is a deliciously-scented wine, but is often sweet. It is what used to be called a ladies' wine, and I should imagine children would prefer Sparkling Moselle to ordinary Champagne. At least I am judging of my own feelings and tastes a.s a child—for in the present day it seems to me that so-called children acquire tastes for dry wines and lobster salads before they leave ofif knickerbockera. Sparkling Burgundy, when not too sweet, is a magnificent wine, and as its price is below that of the first brands of Champagne, it is somewhat strange that it is not more gen(!rally drunk. With regard to the order in which wine should be drunk at dinner we have already alluded. If dinner is preceded by those expensive luxuries, oysters, nothing cm compare with a glass of Chablis. After soup, a glass of sherry; if the soup be turtle, a glass of Madeira. After fish, either a dry sherry. Of should the fish be rich, such as stewed eels, a glass of old East India sherry. Hock, after light entr^s; an(l claret or Burgundy after richer entries. Champagne not too early in the dinner 1^ diy, and not tUl late if at all sweet. This seems the fashion in the present day.oassell's cookery. and in long and elaborate dinners is perhaps best. Of couree when wine i« drunk freely dunng ,huner, it cannot l)e drunk freely after dinner. Agaiii. port wine after dinner when (Jhainpagne is drunk with dinner is a mixture which but few T>ei-sons can stand. Port is a heavy wine, and after Champagne is very apt to disa-ree On the other hand, the old-fashioned plan, especially at baclielors' dinner-pailies, will be found best. A good substantial dinner, say a little thin soup, a cut off the joint, and a grouse. With dinner a glass or two of dry sherry, a glass of bitter ale, and a good bottle of port wine, and a chat afterwards. Finish up, if you like, with a bottle of Chateau Margaux and a single glass of sheny. To my mind, the latter dinner is preferable to the former, where a series of elaborate entrees are served with a variety of wines not always of the best quality. One very agreeable form of drinking cheap hock, claret, &c., in summer time is m the shape of *' cup." There are various ways of making claret cup, but I will give- one of the simplest:—Take a few lumps of sugar, about six or eight, accor-ding to the size, and let a few di-ops of boiling water be poured on them to assist in dissolving them. Take a bottle of claret, and add in addition to the sugar two slices of a hard lemon, a glass of sherry, a table-spoonful of brandy, a small piece of cucumber-peel, and a table-spoonful of noyeau or maraschino. A little balm and borage is an improvement to claret cup, but then tkere is generally considerable difficulty in obtaining them. Another capital claret cup is made by substituting an orange cut in slices for the two slices of lemon. Again, if no noyeau is at hand—and noyeau is an expensive liqueur—add a couple of drops of essence of almonds to the brandy. To every cuj), of coui'se, must be added one or two bottles of soda-water, and a large lump of pure ice. If good pure ice cannot be obtained, but only what is called rough ice, do not put any ice in the cup, but suiTound the cup with chopped ice mixed with salt, and you will very soon reduce its temperature quite as low, and, indeed, lower, than if a large piece of ice had been put in the cup itself I would advise persons who use rough ice indiscriminately to melt a tumblerful, and then hold the glass up to the light. The lesson is very practical. Champagne cup is very simply made by adding either a slice or two of lemon or an orange cut in slices to a bottle of champagne as well as a bottle of soda- water, a small liqueur glass of brandy, and a large lump of ice. Of course, just as it would be a terrible waste to use a bottle of Chateau Lafitte or Chateau Margaux claret to make a claret cup, so would it be equally wrong to use a bottle of first- class champagne, such as Pommery et fils, or Montebello Carte Blanche for cliampagne cup. Again, a rather sweet champagne makes a very good " cup," as the ice and soda-water take off from the sweetness very considerably. It will be found, how- ever, for general purposes that some wines that are not strictly speaking champagne nevertheless make excellent " champagne cup." We would call particular attention to a wine named Sparkling Saumur, which is now being sold at a retail price of 24s. a dozen. A bottle of this, and an orange sliced, avoiding the outside slices Avith too much peel on, as well as the pips, with a bottle or even two bottles of so<ia- water, and a large lump of ice, make a most refreshing summer drink, xndeed, I know of no kind of cheap champagne, at even 36s. a dozen, that will make so excellent a cup. Another very excellent champagne that does not come from the Champagne district is Cortaillod. This is made in Switzerland; and a bottle has refreshed man^PRINCIPLES—AUSTRALIAN WINES. a weary tmveller after a long walk in the exquisite scenery of the district where it is made There are, in my opinion, few wines that approach nearer to the purejuice of the grape than Swiss champagne. I think the retail price in this country is about 36s. a dozen. We now come to consider a class of wines that is I fear but little generally knoAvn in this country, and that is Australian wine. Prejudice is a very difficult thin- to overcome, and I fear it will be many years before the wines of that rapidly- i-isi/- counti-v meet with the reception here thait they so thoroughly deserve. The subject, too, of Australian wines should be regarded from a broader view than merely a question of palate. We as a nation each year spend millions and millions of suiiDlus capital—for wine is not really one of the necessaries of life—on encouraging the manufactures and agriculture of France, Spain, Germany, and Fortucral, while, comparatively speaking, but a few thousands only go to increase the wealth of a country inhabited by our own flesh and blood, Uving under the same laws, and obeying and honouiing the same Queen. Strange, too, to say, the Govern- ment of the mother country at present fails to recognise the claims Australian wines have—they being absolutely shut out even from a chance of holding their own in open competition, owing to their containing slightly more alcohol than the fixed standard allows—consequently the extra duty that must necessarily be paid takes away all chance of competition with the lighter French claret. There are an astonishing number of persons of real wealth who in the present day buy nothing but the poor thin claret that can be bought at 12s. a dozen. I have no hesitation in saying that the majority of Australian Avines are infinitely superior to the cheap claret that we are unfortunately sometimes out of politeness compelled to drink. Again, it must be remembered that the cultivation of the vine in Australia is not matured like it is in France. If we contrast light claret with Chateau Margaux we at once see how much depends upon care in cultivation and also in selection of the grape. The time will probably come wheri the wine trade of Australia will be one of the greatest means of increasing the wealth of that country. We will now run hastily through a few of the principal kinds of wines that that country produces. There are samples that correspond to Hock, Sherry, Burgundy, Claret, and Madeira. We will fii'st take the kind that resembles hock. This is called Riesling; it is a thin light wine, sold in hock bottles, and is an exceedingly pleasant drink in summer, and is particularly suitable with boiled fish, or after light entrees, such as vol-au-vents. Highercombe is another wine resembling hock, or rather Haut Barsac or Sauterne. Highercombe is a strong-scented wine, and would probably not be liked by those who are partial to an exceedingly dry sheny. On the other hand, when the taste for this wine has been acquired, it is generally very strongly fancied. Some of this wine mixed with a bottle of soda-water will be found a most refreshing drink. Another Australian wine very much resembling hock is Gouais; this wine is something between hock and Sauterne, and, as it can be bought for 24s. a dozen, is well worth a trial. The next class of wines to whicli we would refer is the white Australian wines that resemble sherry. First we will take Fairfield (amber). This wine very much resembles Cape Sherry, and is certainly inferior to ordinary good sherry; it also has a slight resemblance ta the home-made wine one occasionally tastes at farmhouses that is made from rhubarb. This wine is, however, very wholesome, and probably after a time would be very palatable when the taste for it is once acquired. A very superior wine, however, is met with in Verdeilho; this is made from vines resembling those in Madeira, andcassell's cookery. xcii ra lUg the wiiie, which can be bought for about 26s. a dozen, liiw a decid^jdly Madei Ihivour, and is the best specimen of Australian wliite wine of the class correspondiL to sherry and Madeira that we have met with. Shiraz is another wine resembling sherry, and costs about 24s. a dozen. Perhaps the most marked of the Australian wines, and the one that proves best liow likely these wines are eventually to become better ai)preciated, is dry Muscat of Alexandria. This wine has the most beautiful bouquet that can be imagined, and its flavour resembles the fii-st crush in the mouth of three or four fine ripe muscatei 5;rai)es—those large white oval ones covered with a light bloom, and attaciied to a <Jean thick stalk—yet, notwithstanding this exquisite bouquet and flavour, the wine is dry. Unfortunately, samples difier; the lighter the colour, liowever, the better the wine. This dry Muscat of Alexandria can be bought for about 30s. a dozen, or even cheaper, and, when the specimens are good, is well worth double the money. We would strongly advise connoisseurs and epicures to make a trial A very delicious cup, superior to Moselle cup, can be made from this wine, l)y mixing it with soda-water, sugar, a few slices of lemon, and a lump of ice. Thiji makes a cheap and very refreshing drink in summer. We next come to the Australian red wines, which, as a rule, will be found very superior to the wliite. The finest Australian red wine that I have ever tasted Ls called Carbenet. This fine wine has a most beautiful bouquet, resembling good Chateau Margaux claret. It resembles Burgundy in flavour, with perhaps a very slight port flavour added. Or it may be compared to a very dry Rousillon. This wine is very soft, and this, coupled with its rich-scented bouquet, entitles it to rank high among the Australian wines. Indeed, it is far superior to the general fun of Burgundies and clarets that can be bought at the same price, which is about 36 s. a dozen. Fairfield (ruby) is another red wine, somewhat resembling dry port. The bouquet of this wine is very inferior to Carbenet, and it has a rather dead taste, in which can be detected a slight flavour of raisins. Perhaps the next best wine to Carbenet is Mataro; this is also similar to a dry port or Burgundy; it has a good bouquet, and is well worth the price at which it is generally sold. Chaselas is a red wine, but is somewhat poor and acid. A better wine is Hermitage, which •somewhat resembles the Hermitage made on the banks of the Rhone, and is pro- bably named after it. A very pecuUar Australian wine is made called Conatto; this is a rich liqueur, vdth a slightly medicinal flavour in it; its taste reminds one of rum shrub and curagoa. Again, it is sometimes like Constantia, and is probably made from the same kind of grapes that are used for Constantia. Red Albury is a scented wine resembling somewhat English home-made raisin wine, only it is better. It is a capital "vvine for children, and would suit those who like a sweet port These ure the chief wines of Australia, which, in our opinion, are destined in a few years' time to become far better known than they are at present; and Englishmen on patriotic grounds should at any rate give Australian wines a trial, if their order does not extend beyond a single bottle. We have now run through the principal wines drunk in this country, and have taken exceptional notice of Australian wine, which is but little known, owing to the fact of its being the only wine worthy of the name that is produced in the British dominions. Hungarian wine, Italian wine, Swiss wine, are all worth a trial, especially the former. We ought not, however, to forget to mention our national beverage—Beer! First, I do not wish to touch upon the point of making home-brewed beer—laVRl NCI PLES—BKER. XCIJI tact, good beer can now be obtained so cheap in almost all parts of the country, that ale is now very rarely brewed at home. Fii-st, I would call attention to the importance of always having beer in cask; by so doing purity is generally ensured, and the bad custom of sending servants, especially women servants, to the public- house is avoided. Good, sound, excellent ale can always be got at threepence a quart; an eighteen-gallon cask costing 18s., and, indeed, very good beer can be bought in cask still cheaper. Now, the beer sold in, I fear, too many public-houses, at the rate of threepence a quart, is adulterated, and often has the effect of increasing rather than allaying thirst. Were the general public to know the secret of the cheap public-house beer that has been doctored with not always such harmless ingi-edients as treacle and sugar, they would probably make gi'eater efforts to obtain their beer direct from the brewery itself. The working poor are necessarily obliged to drink beer, and it is very much to be regretted that they so rarely have their beer in cask. The fact is, they have not sufficiently acquired habits of self-control, and too often a cask in the house proves a temptation too strong to be resisted. On this subject, I recollect an occurrence some time ago that illustrates the <lifficulty to which I have alluded. A poor woman was exclaiming what a monstrous; shame it would be to close all the public-houses on Sunday for the whole day, saying that the poor would have to go without any beer with their Sunday's dinner, which, as a rule, was the only really comfortable meal they got. I asked what difficulty there would be in getting in a gallon jar of ale on Saturday night, which^ if well-corked down, would keep well till the following day? her reply being— " Keep, sir ! Lor' bless you, my old man would never go to bed on Saturday night till he had finished it!" The argument was perfectly sound; and some men must necessarily be treated like children. Indeed, it is as cruel to leave an opened bottle of gin in some persons' way, who are as a inile perfectly honest, as it would be to- leave a child three years old alone in a room with a pot of jam. One of the most important points to be remembered in the management of beer is to ensure its being bright. Beer should always be kept in a cool place, though in winter care should be taken that it is not exposed to too severe a frost. A cask of beer should always be ordered in at least a week before it is wanted, in order to give the beer time to settle. Beer is often allowed to get flat and dead through the carelessness of servants, who forget to put in the vent-peg; consequently a tap requiring no vent-peg is to be preferred. When a cask requires tilting, a very little common sense will often prevent the whole of the beer left in the cask from becoming cloudy. First, it will be found advisable to have a beer-stand that will tilt by simply turning a handle. However, when bricks or lumps of wood are used for the purpose, bear in mind to first choose your time: say you have drawn enough beer for supper, tilt the cask then, so that you have the benefit of the night's settling. Too often, from carelessness and procrastination, servants will draw off" the beer till the last drop runs level, and will then tilt the cask while they draw a jug full, letting the cask drop again, thereby clouding the whole of the remainder. Whenever you have room for two casks in your cellar, side by side, always act as follows. Have two casks in together, and directly one runs out tap the other, and on the same day order in a fresh cask. By making a fixed rule of this description you will always ensure your ale being bright. With regard to bottled ale this same quality of brightness is even more important than ale on draught. The difference not merely in appearjtnce but in taste between a bottle of Bass's ale that sparkles like cham--^^^^ cassell's cookekv. ■" ■ — — — 4 piigne wLeu held u\^ against the light, and one that is thick and cloudy, hi patent to ereiy. one. When kept for any length of time, beer should be laid on its side, but to ensure the beer being bright it only requires being kept upi-ight for i\ short time before it is opened, in a moderate temi)erature. If bottled ale is keiit too warm it is too frothy, and by no means invariably bright. On the other hand, »>eer exi>osed to frost is sure to be thick. Bottled beer consequently in summer-time should not be i)laced in an ice-chest, except for ten minutes or a quai-ter of an hour before it is oi)ened to cool it, but not freeze it. When, therefore, you have lx)ttled beer in quantities, always stand six or eight bottles upright, and as these are used replace them by others. Good beer will generally get bright in bottle if stood upi-ight for !i week, though a longer period should be allowed if the beer is only just brought in. In pouring out beer always have three glasses ready together, so that you can continue to pour without tilting back the bottle, as when this latter is done too often it will be found that the first glass is the only one that is bright. With regard to spirits, but little care is required in keeping them, as they are quite unaffected by variations of temperature, the greatest amount of cold failing to influence them. The only advice I would give you is—regard them as medicines rather than for every- day consumption, and recollect the remark of Adam, in " As You Like It," who iiccounted for his vigour as follows :— " Though I look old, yet I am strong and lusty, For in my youth I never did apply Hot and rebellious liquors in my blood.'" COOKERY AS A BRANCH OF EDUCATION. Before bringuig these pages to a close, there is one subject remaining that demands our greatest attention, and that is this :—How far is it possible to impart even an elementary knowledge of the pi'inciples of cookery to the poor and iinedu- cated classes 1 There is probably no country in the world that has any pretensions to civilisation in which there is so profound an ignorance of even the rudiments of cookery as in our own. Indeed, the difference in the mode of life between a French family and an English one, in which say the goodwife in the former is allowed thii-ty francs and the latter thirty shillings a-week for housekeeping purposes is something astounding. In the former there is comfort and even luxury, and, in addition, money is regularly saved; whereas, in the latter, the week which commences with a hot dinner on Sunday usually terminates in the plainest kind of food, such as bread and dripping, and that too often obtained on credit. Again, amongst the English poor it will be observed that there is scarcely any variety of food whatever. The hot dijmer on Sunday is almost invariably the same. A bladebone of beef and a heap of baked potatoes cooked at that real ix)or man's friend—the baker's oven : the usual charge for baking being twopence on Sundays and three-halfpence on week days. Week after week the fare is the same—baked meat and baked potatoes : the one change coming with Christmas, and, like it, but once a year, when the goose " takes the place of the meat, the huge heaj) qf sage and onions being placed in a saucer underneath the goose to catch the fat. Again, in sending a rice pudding to the baker's, the baker's man is frequently obliged to take out some of the rice, as otherwise the pudding would be so close as to be barely eatabje, the rice having no room to swell. Sometimes a batter pudding is sent with the dish so full of batter that it would be certain to overflov^r w lien baked unless some were removed.XCV PRINCIPLES—CX)OKERY AS A BRANCH OF EDUCATION. Perhaps the greatest difficulty to be contended with is the rooted and unreasoi^^ able prejudice to"be met with in some of the poor. They despise soup and fish, unless the latter be a bloater with their tea. Great changes have, however, taken place lately in regard to education, which is now compulsory, and the young girl wlio a few years back was the mother's chief help in household duties, is now, at any rate for a certain number of days, compelled to attend a school. In all these schools needlework forms part of the regular routine of school duty, but not cooking. It .should, however, be borne in mind that it is quite as important for the future wives of the'poorer classes to be able to cook their husbands' and children's food as to make or mend their clothes. Now, hitherto in almost eveiy poor famUy in the kingdom, the eldest girl has been kept at home to assist her mother, and what little knowledge she possesses of cooking is thus handed down by tradition. Now, how- ever, these home lessons are necessarily limited to Saturday and Suhday. What a wonderful eflfect, however, it would have on the future generation were each child— j.e., each girl properly instructed by some competent teacher in the elements of tlomestic economy ! Unfortunately, at present it will be found that girls who have .shown ability at school, and who are often made pupil teachers—girls who can write a hand nearly like a lady, and play a little on the piano, and who are fond of reading serial tales in theii' leisure, too often rather despise household work; and often it will be found in a family where there is more than one gii'l that one sister will cook and scrub, while the other—who prides herself somewhat on her " gentility," jis those sort of people call it—looks out for a business that is light and fanciful, such ;is millinery. Suppose, howevei', the girls get married in their own station of life, which would make the best wife of these two sisters 1 We trust the School Board will in time realise the fact that it is at any rate as important for a girl to know how to make an Irish stew as to be capable of playing an Irish jig. It is only first-class cooks who realise the first principles of cookery, viz., cleanliness and economy, and i* is oil these points that the poor chiefly break down; indeed, we have already called attention to the want of cleanliness on the part of cooks, that takes place not so much from indolence as ignorance. How often do we have an omelet perfectly white, or rather yellowish-white, like we have them abroad % Do you know the reason of failure 1 if not, go downstairs and learn. Take the frying-pan in your left hand, and a clean cloth in your right; hold the frying-pan over the fire for a few seconds till it IS hot, and then wipe it with your cloth, and look at the cloth. Among the poor, however, the fat is allowed to get cold in the frying-pan, and the frying-pan is hung up, or rather piit by, with the fat in it ready for next time; and, indeed, the same thing is often done in houses where the mistress does not exercise ijx-oper and necessary supervision over her servants. Unfortunately our English kitchen utensUs are, as a rule, so shaped that perfect cleanliness, such as is met mth in France, is barely possible. The English enamelled ste\vi)an is, however, quite equal to the tinned copper utensils of France for ordiimry purposes, and in these vessels perfect cleanliness is, comparatively speaking, easy. But we shall refer to the shape of vessels at more length when we come to consider kitchen utensils, but would here say one word to housekeepers on jugs. Is it reason- able on your part to contiiiue buying milk-jugs shaped bulb-like, with narrow necks, into which the hand cannot be inserted, and yet to express surprise that your milk is sometimes sour ? I am perfectly aware that jug-brushes exist, but it is almost impossi1)lc to get servants to use them. Witli regard to economy, we have already explained we do not mean livingcassell's cookbky. plainly, or evon cheaply, but using up all the material we have. There is no want of economy in the strictest sense of the word in giving broken victiuils to the poor, provided we know they eat them. Want of economy is exemplified in giving a haJL picked sirloin of beef-bone to the dog, in throwing the end in the pig-tub, or in leaving the ends of mutton chops juid the bones half picked on tlie plate. Again, a fruitful source of waste, which is in reality a synonymous term for want of economy, is allowing, through carelessness, ignorance, or want of fore- thought, food of any description to get bad. For instance, forgetting in liot weather to waiun up soup when it has been left, but is not required for the next day's consumption : or in leaving in sultry weather a joint of meat all night in a hot place, instead of preserving it by placing it in a cool larder or ice-chest. Again, milk can often be preserved from turning sour for one night by the simple plan of boiling it, and pouring it into a clean jug. These and a hundred other riimple methods by which food can be preserved, and thereby added to the wealth of the country, are principles of education that ought to form part of all elementary lessons now taught in schools. There is perhaps nothing that would so effect the future prosperity and greatness of our country than universally inculcating in the minds of the yoxing throughout the length and breadth of the land the importance of economy of the necessaries of life. Our present teachers of the young have high responsibilities. It is not so much that a great multitude follow them as that a great multitude are driven unto them. Whatever differences may arise as to creed or no creed, surely all will unite in agreeing with the great Teacher that it is our duty to gather up the fragments that remain, that nothing be lost.CASSELL'S Dictionary of Cookery. Aberdeen Sandwiches. —Take two ■ounces of cold chicken and one ounce of cold ham or tongue. Cut them into small pieces and put them into a stewpan with two table-spoon- fuls of good sauce and a table-spoonful of curry- paste. Simmer gently for a few minutes, stir- ring all the time, then turn the mixture into a basin to cool. Cut some slices of stale bread about the eighth of an inch in thickness, stamp them in rounds about the size of a penny, and fry them in boiling oil till they are lightly "browned. Place them on some blotting-paper to drain off the oil, and spread the mixture "thickly on one of the rounds, placing another on the top, until all are used. Put them into a -quick oven for a few minutes; arrange them prettily on a dish, and serve hot. The remains •of fish and game may be used in a similar manner. Time to bake, five minutes. Pro- bable cost, exclusive of the cold meat. Is. rive or six should be allowed for each person. Aberfrau Cakes.—Beat half a pound of fresh butter to a cream, with half a pound of pounded loaf sugar, adding slowly half a pound of fine flour. Roll out thin, and cut in ■circles about the size of a teacup; impress with a shell or other ornament, and bake •quickly for fifteen minutes. Probable cost. Is. 2d. Abernethy Biscuits.—Rub one ounce of butter into one pound of the best flour, adding a dessert-spoonful of sugar and half an ounce of caraway seeds. Mix all together with two eggs, and, if necessary, a little milk. Roll the batter out, knead it into small round cakes, making holes with a fork to allow the steam to escape, and bake in a moderate oven. Time to bake, fifteen minutes. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for eight biscuits. Acba.—Take four capsicums and half a large Spanish onion, with as much salt and lemon-juice as may be required to suit the palate, and pound all together thoroughly*in a mortar. _ Acha for Fish.—Thoroughly boil a small piece of salt fish, cut an onion and a few cap- sicums into very small pieces, and add a little Tinegar: pound all weU together, and make into a puree. Acid Ice for Puddings, Tarts, &c. —Strain the juice of a largo lemon, add to it three ounces of sifted sugar, and the whites of B four eggs beaten to a firm froth. Pile this over the pudding after it is cooked, and return it to the oven for a few minutes to stiffen. Time to bake, ten minutes. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for a pudding for four or five persons. Acidulated Alkali.—Blend thoroughly two ounces of carbonate of soda, two ounces of tartaric acid, and a quarter of a pound of pow- dered loaf sugar. Flavour with essence of lemon. Keep the mixture in a bottle, well corked, and, when required, stir a tea-spoonful briskly into a tumbler three parts full of water, and drink during effervescence. Probable cost, a halfpenny per glass. Acidulated Alkali (another way).— Grate the rind of two lemons upon four ounces of loaf sugar, pound it, and mix it thoroughly with two oimces of bicarbonate of soda and two ounces of tartaric acid. Bottle it, cork it closely, and keep in a dry place. A small tea-spoonful stirred briskly into half a tumblerful of water vdH make a pleasant draught, and it should be drunk during effer- vescence. Time to prepare, haK an hour. Probable cost for this quantity, 6d. Acidulated Drops.—Clarify some sugar as follows : to every two pounds of sugar allow one pint of water and the white of one egg; put the sugar and water into a saucepan, and stir them over the fire until the former is thoroughly dissolved; add the white of the egg, and boil, skimming constantly until the sjTup looks quite clear. Remove it from the fire, strain it, and return it to the saucepan. Mix with it tartaric acid or lemon-juice, according to taste, and let all boil together until the syrup crackles when put into cold water. Have ready a well- oiled ddsh, and drop the sugar as regularly and quickly as possible into it. If there is any appearance of the syrup boiling over, two or three drops of oil, or a little cold water, may be put in. Time to prepare, about half an hour, Probable cost, Is. Acidulated Drops (another way).—Boil a pound and a half of sugar with a pint of water and three tea-spoonfuls of tartaric acid imtil it is brittle; then drop it from the point of a knife upon an oiled slab or dish. In order to ascertain when the sugar is sufficiently boiled, dip a stirring stick into the syrup, and drop some of it into cold water; wheu it stiffens and snapj^ACI ( ALB immediately it is suflioiontly done; but great caro must bo taken tliat the iiro is not too strong, and tliat the sugar docs not boil over or burn. If there is any danger of this, a small piece of butter may bo thrown in. Time nbout twenty minutes, rrobablo cost for this quantity, lOd. Acidulated Lemonade. — To three pints of boiling water add four ounces of fresh lemon-juice, half an ounce of thin lemon-pccl freshly cut, and four oimces of iinely-powdercd loaf sugar. 'When cold, strain through a jolly- bag. If not wanted immediately, it must bo bottled and carefully corked. Acidulated Pudding.—Take the thin rind of three lemons and two Seville oranges, with a quarter of a pound of sugar: place them in a bowl with a pint of boiling water, and let them remain about an hour and a half; then remove the rinds, and add the juice of the lemons. Put three or four slices of sponge- cake into a glass dish, and strain the liquid over them; let them soak till they have ab- sorbed the syrup, then pour over them a good custard, and strew a little pink sugar over the top. Sufficient for four or live persons. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Acorn Coffee. —In Germany "acorn coffee" is used; and greatly hked, as a sub- stitute for oi-dinary coffee, and is considered to be very strengthening for consumptive people and delicate children. The acoms are gathered in autumn when they are ripe, shelled, and, after being cut into pieces of the size of coffee- berries, they are thoroughly dried in front of the fire, or in a cool oven. They are then roasted like ordinary cofiiee, until they become a cinnamon-brown coloiir. Immediately after roasting, the acoms are ground or pounded in a moi-tar, to prevent their becoming tough. Whilst the coffee is being ground or pounded, a very little butter is added, and the coffee is then placed in air-tight bottles. For children: prepare in the same way as ordinary coffee, using a quarter of an oimce to a pint of water, adding milk and sugar to taste. Young chil- dren should take it with two or three parts of milk. For adults: half an ovmco of the coffee may be used to a pint of water. Acorn coffee and ordinary coffee are frequently mixed, and the decoction is found very palatable. In their raw state, acoms are Imown to bo powerfully astringent, but they lose this quality in the process of roasting. In some respects acom coffee is preferable to coffee proper, having none of the drying properties attributed to the latter. Adelaide Pudding. — Put a pint of water and the thinly-peeled rind and juice of a lemon into a saucepan. Bring it slowly to a boil; then take it off the fire and stir into it, while hot, six ounces of butter and a cupful of sugar; mix -vyith it, very gradually and smoothly, half a pound of flour; let it cool; add six well-beaten eggs and a tea-spoonful of baking-powder. Half fill some buttered cups, and bake in a quick oven. Time to bake, about lialf an hour. Sufficient for one dozen cups. Probable cost, Is. 4d. Adelaide Sandwiches.—Cut up cold chicken and hum in small wjuaros, in tlie pro- portion (jf two-thirds of chicken to one-third of hum. Next jjlaco two largo table-spoonfuls of sauce and one of curry pusttj in a stewpan, and when they boil add tlie cliicken and ham mixing all well together. Prepare thin tilicos of stale br(!ad, cut in small circles, by frying them in clarified butter. Spread the prepared chicken and ham slightly between two slices of the bread. Upon the top of esich sandwich ])laco a ball, about the size of a walnut, and composed of grated Parmewin cheese and l^utter in equal ])arts, kneaded into a paste. I'lace the sandwiches on a baking-cloth, ])ake for five minutes in a brisk oven, dish up on a napkin, and serve as a second-course savoury dish. Admiral's Sauce.—Make half a pint of melted butter, and put into it one tea-spoonful of chopped capers, three or four shallots chopped, two pounded anchovies, and a little thin lomon-rind. Let all simmer gently; add pepper, salt, and the juice of a lemon, and serve in a tureen. Time to simmer, till the anchovies are dissolved. Probable cost. Is. Sufficient for a pint of sauce. Agnew Pudding.—Pare and core eight russets, and boil them to a pulp with the rind of half a lemon. Beat up the yolks of three eggs, and add to them tlii-ee ounces of melted butter ; sweeten to taste, and beat all together. Line a pudding-dish with puff paste, pour in the mixture, and bake until it becomes a light brown colour. Time to bake, thirty minutes. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for four persons. Albany Cakes.—Lightly beat six eggs, and stir them into a quart of milk; add a tea- spoonful each of bicarbonate of soda and salt, dissolved in a little hot water. Stir in sufficient fine flour to make a thick batter. Butter smaU tins the size of a tea-saucer, and half fill them ■with the mixture. Bake them in a quick oven. This makes very nice cakes, which are much used for breakfast in America. Time to bake, twenty minutes. Probable cost. Is. 2d. Albemarle Pudding.—Take a quarter of a pound of sweet and three or four bitter almonds; blanch and pound them, being careful not to let them oil. Beat four eggs and add to them their weight in sifted sugar; whisk them over the fire till the sugar is molted, then pour them out at once; let them get cold, and then stir in the almond paste. Beat altogether to a froth, and while in this state put the mixture into a well-oiled tin, and bake immediately. Time to bake, half an hour. Sufficient for four or five persons. Probable cost. Is. Albert Cake or Biscuits. — Take the yolks of twelve eggs and the whites of two, and beat them up with ten ounces of pounded sugar and eight ounces of finely - cJiopped almonds, for twenty minutrs. WTiisk the remaining whites of the eggs, and mi.x with them six ounces of flour, two ounces of finely- shred candied orango-pocl, a tea-spoonful of cinnamon powder, half a tea-spoonful^ of ground cloves, and a little grated Icmon-rijid. Mix all thoroughly together, and pouf out(3) ALK ALB "batter into a convenient sized mould, and bake in an oven with a moderate heat for about an hour. When cioue, and sufficiently cold, cut CAKE UOULD. into thin slices ready for serving. Albert biscuits may be also baked in small tins or moulds, which should be buttered and floured. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for a quart mould. Albert Pudding.—Beat six ounces of butter quite thin, then gxaduaUy mix with it five well-beaten eggs, half a pound of flour, and six ounces of loaf sugar on which the rind of a lemon has been grated; add half a pound of stoned raisins, and place the entire mixture in a mould which has been well buttered and lined ALBERT PUDDING. with slices and stars made of citron, peel, and figs. Tie it up closely, and steam or boU it for at least throe hours. Serve it with good melted butter, flavoured with lemon and brandy. Sufficient for six persons. Probable cost, 2s., exclusive of brandy. Albert Pudding (another way).—"Well beat two ounces of butter to a cream, and stir into it tho yolks of three eggs. Add gradually three ounces of sugar, two ounces of flour, two ounces of bread-crumbs, quarter of a pound of sultana raisins, and the whites of the eggs well whisked. Pour into a buttered mould, cover with an oiled paper and a cloth, and steam it. Ser^-e with wine sauce. Time to steam, three hours. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for four persons. Albert's (Prince) Pudding.—Lay the thm rind of a lemon over half a pound of crumbled Savoy cake, and pour over tliem half a pint of boiling milk ; add a good pinch of salt, the yolks of four eggs and the whites of two, together with a table-spoonful of powdered sugar. Pour the whole, when weU mixed, into a buttered mould, and steam it for nearly an hour. A little jam served with this pudding is an improvement. Sufficient for four persons. Probable cost. Is. 3d. Alderman's Pudding. — Pour three pints of boiling milk over six table-spoonfuls of finely-grated bread-crumbs, and soak for half an hour. Shred finely six ounces of firm beef suet; mix with it a heaped table-spoonful of stoned raisins and another of currants; add a little sugar and grated nutmeg, and the rind of half a lemon chopped finely. Mix these ingre- dients together with five eggs well beaten. Lino the edges of a shallow pie-dish with good crust, place the pudding in it, and bake. It is also very nice steamed. Time to bake, forty minutes; to steam, two hours. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Probable cost, 2s. Ale-Berry.—Soak two large spoonfuls of oatmeal gToats in a little water for an hour, strain the liquor, and add to it half a pint of boiling beer or porter; pour the mixture into a saucepan, and boil it; grate a little whole ginger into it, and any seasoning which may be pre- feired; sweeten it to taste. Time, ten minutes to boil. Sufficient for one person. Probable cost, 6d. Ale Cup.—Squeeze the juice of a lemon into a round of hot toast; lay on it a thin piece of the rind, a table-spoonful of powdered sugar, a little grated nutmeg or powdered all- spice, and a sprig of balm. Pour ovfer these one glass of brandy, two of sherry, and three pints of mild ale. Do not allow the balm to remain many minutes. Sufficient for five or six persons. Probable cost, 2s. Ale, Draught (to keep in good condi- tion) .—Keep the ale in a cool, dry, well-venti- latea cellar, with a temperature of from fifty to sixty degrees. If allowed to fall below fifty degrees the appearance of the beer may be spoilt; if it rises above sixty or sixty-five degrees it may turn sour. Place tho cask firmly and securely on its stand, and leave it undistui-bed for the first twenty-four hours, as if drawn too soon the beer may never brighten at all. Leave the vent-peg loose for twelve hours after the ale is placed on its stand, and then if it has ceased to effervesce, but not unless, diive it in tightly. If the ale is not to be used immediately loosen the vent for three or four minutes each day. With this exception the vent may be left imtouched, as if too much air is let into the barrel the ale will become flat. When it is necessary to tilt the barrel, raise it steadily at the back end and fasten it securely, so that it need not aftei-wards be disturbed. It may then be drawn off, and remain good until the very last. As soon as a cask is empty cork it up at once, or it wiU become foul. Alo Flip.—Put into a saucepan three pints of aley a table-spoonful of sugar, a blade of mace, a clove, and a small piece of butter, and bring the liquid to a boU. Beat the white of one egg and the yolks,of two thoroughly, mixing with them a table-spoonful of cold ale. Mix all together, and then pour the whole rapidly from one large jug to another from a good' height, for some minutes, to froth, it thoroughly, but doALM AIiE not allow it to got cool. Probable coat, la. 4(1. Sufliciout for live or six persona. Ale or Porter Jelly.—Prepare calf's- feet jolly in the ordinary way, but instead of using wine take the samo proportion of porter or ale. Thougli thin ia sometimes recom- mended in illuoss, for ordinaiy j)urp()se.s wine is much to bo proforrod in the making of calf'a-feet jelly. Ale Posset.—Boil a pint of now milk and pour it over a slice of toasted broad. Stir in the beaten yolk of an egg, and a piece of butter tho size of a nutmeg, and sugar to taste. Mix these with a pint of hot ale, and boil for a few minutes. When the scum rises it is sufficiently ready. Time, five minutes to boil. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for four persons. Ale, To Mull.—Put half a pint of ale, a <5love, a little wliole ginger, a piece of butter ihe sizG of a small marble, and a tea-spoonful of sugar, into a saucepan, and bring it to boiling point. Beat two eggs with a table-spoonful of cold ale, and pour the boiling ale into them, and then into a large jug. Pass the whole from one jug into another for some minutes, and at a good height. Ketum it to the saucepan and heat it again, but do not allow it to boil. Time, a quarter of an hom\ Probable coat, 6d. Suffi- cient for one person. Ale, with. Cheese.—Crumble about a quarter of a pound of Cheshire or Gloucester cheese, and put it into a saucepan with a small tea-spoonful of sugar, another of mustard, and enough ale to cover it. Let it remain on the fire until thoroughly melted, stirring all the -time, and then add the yolk of an egg. Serve it on a very hot dish, and stick all over it little sippets of toasted bread, or pieces of pulled bread. Time to prepare, fifteen minutes. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for three or four persons. AUemand Sauce.—Put into a saucepan one pint of white stock, with a little salt, six mushrooms, a thin strip of lemon-peel, and a little parsley. Let it boil, then draw it to the side of the fire, and allow it to simmer slowly for half an hoiu" or more. Thicken it with a little flour, let it boil for a few minutes, and strain. Add the beaten yolks of three eggs, and replace it on the fire. Stir it constantly, and make it thoroughly hot; but it must not boil up again, or the sauce will be spoiled. When oft the fire, stir a little butter into it, i'.nd the juice of half a lemon. Probable cost, Is. fcjufficient for a pint of sauce. Allemand Sauce (another way). —Put into a saucepan two ounces of butter. When melted, stir in briskly a dessert-spoonful of flour and half a pint of white stock, or failing that, water. Add a little lemon-peel, salt and pepper to taste, a small lump of sugar, an onion, and a little nutmeg. Let all simmer by tho side of tho fire for a little while, then strain. Mix witli tho sauce half a cupful of milk or cream, and the yolk of one egg; put it on tho fire once more, and stir it briskly till it thickens. It must not boil. Add a little lemon- juice. Time, foiiy minutes. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for three-quarters of a pint of aauce. Allspice, Essence of.—Pour two draclima of oil of pimento very gradually into three ounces of spirits of wine, and let it stand for a few minutes. Put it into a bottle and cork it closely. Prolmblo cost, la. 8d. Five or six drops will flavour a pint. Allspice, Tincture of.—Put two ounces f of powdered allspice into a bottle with one pint of brandy. Let it aoak for a fortnight, shaking it up every three days. Pour it into another bottle, leaving the sediment, and cork it closely. Half a tea-spoonful will flavour a pint. Pro- bable cost, exclusive of the brandy, 4d. Almack's Preserve.—Take two dozen plums, one dozen apples, and one dozen pears: spUt the plums and take the atones out, pare and core the apples and pears, and place all the fruit in alternate layers in a deep jar. Place the jar in the oven, in a shallow dish containing boiling water. When the fruit is well mixed, put a pound of sugar to every pound of fruit, and pour the whole into a preserving-pan. Stir constantly, and boil for forty minutes or more, or until the mixture thickens. Pour it out, and cut into slices ready for use. Time, four to six hours. Probable cost, 3s. Seasonable from August to October. Almond Cake, Plain.— Blanch and pound in a mortar three ounces of sweet almonds and seven or eight bitter almonds. Rub the rind of a lemon upon four ounces of loaf sugar, and pound this with the almonds. Add the yolks of four eggs well beaten, and a piece of butter the size of a walnut. Work in a quarter of a pound of fine flour, and, lastly, the whites of the eggs beaten to a sohd froth. Put into a well-buttered mould, and bake in a good oven. Time, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, Is. Almond Cake, Rich. — Blanch and pound in a mortar very thoroughly eight ounces of sweet and one ounce of bitter almonds. Add six table-spoonfuls of sifted sugar and eight eggs well beaten. Dry before the fire six table- spoonfuls of fine flour, and work this in with the rest. The rind of a lemon finely-grated wiU be an improvement. Beat a quarter of a pound of sweet butter to a cream, and add the mixture gradually. Great care should be taken to keep on beating lightly during the whole process of making the cake, or it will be heavy. Put the mixture into a well-buttered mould, allowing room for the cake to rise, and bake it in a quick oven, but do not allow it to bum. Time to bake, about an hour. Piobable cost, 2s. Almond Cakes (or Macaroons).— Blanch and pound six ounces of swc(^t ahnonds with one pound of sifted sugar. Add the whites of six eggs thoroughly whisked, two ounces of ground rice, and a table-spoonful of brandy. Beat all well together, and drop the mixture in smaU quantities on wafer-paper, lea^-ing a little distance between each. Bake in a mo- derate oven. It is best to bake one little cake first, and if it is at aU heavy to add a little moreALM ALM white of egg. Place a strip of blanched al- mond in the middle of each cake, and do not let them bake too bro-vsTi. Time, about twenty minutes. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Almond Candy (or Hardbake).— Boil one pound of sugar and half a pint of water until it becomes brittle when dropped in cold water; then add a quarter of a pound of almonds blanched and split, the juice of half a lemon, and one ounce of butter. Boil until the candy hardens at once in the water. Pour it out on a well-oiled dish. When cold, it may be taken off the plate and kept for use in a tin box. Time, half an hour. Probable cost, 7d. Almond Cheesecakes.—Blanch and pound four ounces of sweet and five or six bitter almonds with a few drops of water ; add a quarter of a pound of sugar rubbed with lemon-rind, a spoonful of cream, a small piece of butter, and the whites of two eggs thoroughly TABTLET-TINS. whisked. Mix, and fill small tartlet-tins, lined with puff paste, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. Probable cost, 8d. Almond Chocolate Drops. — Put a metal mortar in a hot oven till it is well heated, throw into it a quarter of a potmd of cake chocolate, broken into small pieces; pound it to a paste, then mix with it a quarter of a pound of finely-sifted sugsir. Blanch, slice, and dry in a cool oven, two ounces of sweet almonds; roll each slice smoothly in a little of the choco- late paste, and put them upon sheets of writing- paper till they are cold. Time to prepare, about one hour. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for half a pound of drops. Almond Creams. — Blanch and pound five ounces of sweet and one ounce of bitter almonds to a paste; put to this loaf sugar to taste, rubbed with lemon-rind, and pounded. Rub smoothly a dessert spoonful of corn-flour into a quart of milk, or if it is to bo had use a pint and a half of cream; add the yolks of three eggs well beaten. Put the whole, when well mixed, into a saucepan, set it on the fire, and stir constantly until it thickens; but on no account allow it to boil. The whites of the eggs may be whisked, and a little placed on the top of each glass. Time, about ten minutes to boil the cream. Probable cost, with milk, Is. 3d. Sufficient for a dozen custard-glasses. Almond Cream Ice. — Blanch and pound two oimces of sweet ahmonds with a tea-spoonful of rose-water and a little loaf sugar; add gradually a quart of cream, and boil gently for a few minutes. Let it cool slowly, and place it in the ice-pail. Servo with spongo- ^kes. Time to freeze, about half an hour. Probable cost, 38, 6d., with cream at Is. 6d. per pint. Almond Croquantes. — Blanch and pound half a pound of sweet almonds, with half a pound of sugar rubbed on the rind of half a lemon, and a glass of white wine. Add a quarter of a pound of butter and the yolks of four eggs. Mix all into a stiff paste, roll out, cut it into diamonds, stars, &c., and bake these in a quick oven. Dip them for a minute into boiling sugar, and let them drain until cool. Keep them in a dry place, and they will be useful to garnish any kind of sweet dish. Time, about half an hour. Probable cost. Is. lOd. Almond Custard.—Place in a saucepan over the fire a pint of new milk or cream, with a few lumps of sugar rubbed on the rind of a lemon, a piece of cinnamon, and four bitter almonds. Let it simmer gently for ten minutes. Blanch and pound two oujices of sweet almonds, with a little rose-water to prevent oiling. Mix the ingredients well together, and add the yolks of four eggs, well beaten. Stir the custard gently over a moderate fire until it thickens, but on no account allow it to boil; and pour into glasses. Probable cost, made with milk, 9d. Sufficient for six or seven glasses. Almond Custard (anotherway).—Blanch and pound half a pound of sweet and five or six bitter almonds, and add a table-spoonful of rose or orange-water to prevent oiling. Mix gra- dually with this a pint of cream, half a pint of milk, the yolks of six eggs, well beaten, and a little sugar. Stir the custard over the fire gently till it thickens, or it may be baked in cups, if pre- ferred. Time, ten minutes to boil. Probable cost, 38. Sufficient for nine or ten glasses. Almond Darioles.—Beat two ounces of fresh butter to a cream. Mix with it the same weight of flour, a heaped table-spoonful of sugar, half a pint of milk and half a pint of cream, four well-whisked eggs, and a little chopped lemon-peel. Mix all well together, and then add, a drop at a time, a little essence of almond, to suit the taste; too much of the essence will make the dish disagreeable. Stir over the fire for ten minutes. Line dariole moulds with tartlet paste, fill them three parts with the batter, and bake in a quick oven until the pastry is sufficiently ready. Turn the darioles out of the moulds, strew sifted sugar over them, and serve. Time to bake, about twenty minutes. Sufficient to fill about half a dozen dariole moulds. Probable cost, Is. 8d. Almond Diamonds.—Blanch and pound six ounces of sweet almonds ; add six ounces of finely-sifted sugar, and mix them to a stiff paste with some white of egg. Strew a little sugar on the board, and roll out the paste to the thickness of a penny-piece, then stamp it into diamonds with a pastry-cutter. Bake in a cool oven, and when cold, brush them over with a little syrup, strew sugar over them, and dry them in the oven. Time to bake, twenty minutes. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for about two dozen diamonds. Almond-Dust, Burnt.—This is made by pounding any quantity of blanched sweet almonds, which have been thoroughly brownedALM in a modcmto ovon. This dust \n chiofly usod ioT giiniLshiiig nikes and swoot dishos. Almond Flummory.—Cover ono ounce of golatiiio witli wutor; lot It stand half an hour, thon pour upon it a pint and a half of boiling milk or croain that has boon flavoui-dd with one ounce of swoot and ono ounce of bitter almonds which havo boon proviously blanched and pouiulod, and eight or nine lumps of sugar—in tlio lump, for fear of dust—on which a little lemon has boon rubbed. Stir the nu>cture occasionally till cool, to pre- vent a scum forming. Strain it carcfullJ^ Pour it into a mould which has been wottod with cold water, and let it stand until quite firm. If likod, isinglass may be used instead of gelatine. Probable cost, if .made with milk, Is. Suf- ficient for a quart nu)uld, which will bo enough lor six or eight poi sons. Almond Fritters.—Blanch and pound two ounces of sweet almonds with a little water: niix them gradually in one pint of new milk or cix^ani with two table-spociifuls of ground rice and the well-beaten yolks of four eggs, and the whites of two. Sweeten according to taste. Melt two ounces of butter in tlie frying-pan, and, when hot, fry the mixture a spoonful at a time. Stir it well till it is a golden- brown. Cover it with sifted sugar. Time to_ fry, five minut(3s. Probable cost, if made with milk, Is. Sufficient for three or four persons. ^ ■ Almond Gauffres.—JMix a table-spoonful of fine fioiu- -with a little sugar, the rind of a lemon chopped spiall, and two eggs. When thoroughly mixed, ,add to them four ounces of blanched and finely - sHced sweet almonds. Make a baking-tin .quite hot, and oil it well. Spread the mixture on it very thin, and bake it in a moderate oven untU. slightly coloured. Take it out and stamp it in rounds, and fold each over a reed ih the shape of a small horn. This must be done \vhile they are hot, and great care must 'b6 taken not to break them. Fill them with a little bright-coloured jam, and put them in a hot place to drj'. Probable cost. Is. ' ' '■ Almond G-ingertiread.—Melt half a pound of treacle with' two table-spoonfuls of butter, and add to them two table-spoonfuls of flour and two of ground rice, a small cupful of sugar, a little chopped lemon and candied peel. AVTien th0SQ ingredients are thoroughly mixed, put to them' a quarter of a j)ound of nlmonds blanched and pounded. Beat well together for a : few minutes, then bake in small cakes on a well-oiled tin. The oven must not be. hot. , Time to bake, forty minutes. Probable cost, :l8. ..6d. per pound Almond Icing for Cakes. — Blanch one pound of sweet almonds and eight bitter almonds. Pound them in a mortar to a smooth paste, and drop in once or twice during the process a very little orange-flower water. Add to them one pound of sifted sugar, and as much white of egg as will make a soft stiflF paste. When all are well mixed together, lay the icing on the top of the cake, already baked, a little more than half an inch thick, as smoothly and evenly as possible. Put it in a cool place to dry. The sugar icing goes over this. Tiuio to dry, about one day. I'roljable cost of almonds, Is. to 2s. Gd. por jjouud. Almond Jelly.—Put one oujuc ;iiia a half of best isinglass, a quart of water, a bttlo sugar, and a quarter of a pound of blanched and ])oun(led almonds into a saucepan. Let tlicm lioil half un hour. Strain tlie liquid care- fully tlu-ough a jelly-bag, flavour it with a little briindy, and pour it into a v/ot mould. If calf's- fopt stock is uH(;d, the almouds should be boiled with a little sugar and water seijamtoly for some time, to extract the flavour, tlien the liquid mixed with tho stock, and all boiled uj) together again, with a tea-spoonful of isinglass to a quart of stock. Time, an hour and a lialf. Probable cost, 2s., without tho brandy. Sufficient for a moderate-sized mould. Almond Jumbles.—Work two ounces of butter into half a pound of flour, then add two table-spoonfuls of sifted sugar, a little lemon-juice, and two ounces of sweet and four or five bitter almonds, blanched and beaten to a paste with tho white of an egg. ^lix thoroughly, roU it out rather thin, cut into small round cakes, place them on well-oiled tins, and bake in a quick oven. Time to bake, ten minutes. Probable cost, Is. 4d. per x)oimd. Almond Meringues.—AVbisk the whites of four eggs to the firmest possible froth, and mix slightly ^vith them a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar. Plave ready some pieces of writing-paper fastened upon a board, to pre- vent the meringues being too much coloured at the bottom, and drop them upon it in the form of a half egg. Sprinkle some finely-shred almonds over them, and upon this a little coarsely-sifted sugar. Place them in a cool oven, and, when they are firm, take them out, scoop out a little of the inside, place them on clean paper, upside down, and return them to the oven, and when they are crisp through they are done. "When ready to serve, place almond cream inside, and join them together with the white of an egg. Time to bake, half an hour. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for a small dish. Almond Milk.—Blanch and pound four ounces of sweet and six bitter almonds to a paste, adding a few drops of orange- flower-water every now and then, to prevent oiling. Add a quart of cold water, and let it stand two or three hours, then strain and bottle for use. A table-spoonful of brandy may be added if liked. "When wanted, a little water must bo mixed vdth. the milk, and sweetened, and it will be found to be a very refreshing beverage for feverish patients. Time, four hours. Probable cost, -Id. Sufficient for a quart of milk. Almond Nougat. —Blanch and chop rouglily six ounces of sweOt and five bitter almonds, and put them in a cool oven till they are slightly browned. Put three ounces of sifted sugar into a saucepan, and wlien it is dissolved throw in the almonds, and mix all together for a few minutes. The almonds must be hot . when they are put into tho saucepan. SpreadALM the paste about a quarter of an inch thiclc, quickly and evenly on a well-oiled slab, cut it into lingers, strew some small white comfits over those, and arrange them in a pile. Or, the nougat may be spread on a well-oiled pie- dish, and when it has taken the fonn, tui'nod upon a dish. The nougat should be made and moulded as quickly as possible, or it will hai-deu. Probable cost, 9d., for this quantity. Sufficient for a small dish. Almond Omelet.—Beat four eggs with a httle milk for a minute or more. Have ready as many sweet ahnonds as may be Avished, blanched and pounded. Put into an omelet- pan a piece of butter the size of a large egg; let it be quite hot, but not browned; pour in the mixture, stirring it gently imtU it begins to set. Then arrange it nicely, lay the pounded ahnonds on the top, and double the omelet over, to cover the almonds completely. Keep-shaking the pan, and add a little butter if it seems likely to stick. When it is a nice golden-brown, place it on a hot dish, and cover with a little sifted sugar. Time, five minutes to fry. Probable cost, 7d. Sufficient for two persons. Almond Paste (To Make Quickly). —Poimd as many almonds as are required, moistening with white of egg to prevent oiling, and then roll them with a rolling-pin until they are smooth. They will be nicer if they have been kept in a waim place. This quickly-made aJmond paste is very useful for garnishing pastry. Almond Pastry.—Blanch and pound to a paste three oimces of almonds and a little rose-water. Add to them gradually four oimces of loaf sugar and an equal weight of fine flour. Stii- in the well-whisked whites of two eggs, and roU out on a pastry-board. Stamp out any pretty shapes that may be fancied; bake in a moderate oven, and keep in a dry place in a tin box to ornament sweet dishes of any descrip- tion. Time to bake, eight or nine minutes. Probable cost, 8d. Almond Pudding, Boiled.—Blanch and pound with a httle water three ounces of sweet and four or five bitter almonds; add a pint of new milk, sugar to taste, a httle nutmeg, a table-spoonful of floiur mixed smoothly, a table-spoonful of grated bread-cnunbs, two €ggs well beaten, and lastly, the whites of two eggs whisked to a froth. Pour the mixtui-e into a well-buttered mould, and steam gently till the pudding is set. When done, let it stand for a few minutes before turning out. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for four persons. Almond Pudding, Jewish.—Put four ounces of sweet almonds, and three bitter ones, into a saucepan of cold water. Heat it gradu- ally, and when too hot to bear the fingers put the almonds into a basin, sKp ofE the skins, and throw them at once into cold water. Dry them well, and pound them in a mortar imtil they form a smooth paste; drop a tea-spoonful of -cold water over them two or three times to prevent them oiling. Mix with them.four ounces of powdered loaf sugar, and add two table-spoonfuls of rose water, together with the yolks of four, and the whites of three, eggs well beaten. Stir briskly for t2n minutes, pour into a well-oiled mould, and bake in a (luick oven. Turn the pudding out of the dish before serving, and pour round it a thick syrup, flavoured with the rind and juice of a Icnion, and coloui-ed with cochineal. Time, half an hour to Ixvke. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for thi'eo or four persons. Almond Pudding, Plain.—Soak three table-spoonfuls of finely-grated bread-crumbs m milk. Add four ounces of blanched_ and pounded ahnonds, a piece of butter the size of an egg melted in a pint of new nulk, sugar to taste, a tea-spoonful of grated, lemon-rind, a scrape of nutmeg, and three eggs well beaten. A glass of sherry or raisin wine may be added. Place in a pie-dish lined with paste, and bake in a moderate oven. Time, half an hour. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Enough for three or four persons. Almond Pudding, Kich.—Blanch and beat to a paste a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds and five or six bitter ones, with a little water to prevent oiling; add a httle sugar rubbed on lemon-rind, a piece of butter the size of an egg, melted with a glass of warm cream, five eggs well beaten, a little nutmeg, and a glass of sherry. Put the mixture into a pie-dish and bake in a moderate oven, or put it into buttered cups, and turn out. Serve mth sweet sauce. Time to bake, half an hour. Probable cost, 2s. 4d. Sufficient for four persons. Almond Pudding (another way).— Line a pie-dish with p\iif paste. Blanch and poimd half a pound of sweet almonds with a little orange-water. Add a quarter of a pound of melted butter, three table-spoonfuls of cream, the riud and juice of a lemon, four eggs well beaten, and a little brandy. Mix all together, put it in the dish, and bake in a moderate oven. Serve with brandy sauce. Time to bake, half an hoiir. Probable cost, 2s. 4d. Sufficient for four persons. Almond Puffs.—Blanch and pound two oimces of sweet almonds with a Httle water. Add two table-spoonfuls of finely-sifted sugar, two ounces of clarified butter, two table-spoon- fuls of flour. When these are thoroughly mixed, add the beaten yolks of two eggs, and a cupful of cream. Well oU about a dozen PATTT-PANS. patty-pans, and half fill them with the mix- ture. Bake in a moderate oven for half an hour. Probable cost, Is. Serve one for each person. Almond Sauce for Puddings.—Boil gently a quarter of a pint of water and half that quantity of new nulk. Pour this slowly, when boiling—stirring all the time—^upon a(8) ALM ALM dessort-spoonful of arrowroot, mixed with a littlo wator. Add sugar to taatu, tho hoaton yolk of an egg, and enough ossonco of almondH to flavour nicelj'. Sorvo in a turoon. Do not pour tho sauce over tho pudding, as every one may not like tho flavour. A littlo brandy may be added. Time, about ton minutea to boil. Probable cost, 4d. Sulliciont for a medium-sized pudding. Almond Sauco (another -way).—Blanch and pound two ounces of sweet almonds with a few drops of water. Pour over them, boiling, half a pint of new milk. Slix a tea-spoonful of flour smoothly with a littlo water and the yolk of one egg. Stir all together briskly, over a moderate tire, until it froths. Serve with any sweet pudding. Time, ten minutes to boil. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for a medium- eized pudding. Almond Soup.—Take one quart of white stock {see Stock) made cither from bones which have been soaked for a few minutes in salt and water to whiten them, or, if preferred, from fresh meat. Boil the liquor with a small piece of mace, five or si.x cloves, and a piece of stale bread. Take out the spice, and rub the soup through a sieve. Blanch and pound six ounces of sweet almonds with tho hard-boiled yolk of an egg. Add the paste smoothly and slowly to the stock when it is cool. Boil it again, and just before serving the soup add a tea-cupful of milk or cream. Probable cost, if made from bones and with milk, Is. Suf- ficient for five or six persons. Almond Spice Biscuits. — Put two pounds of loaf sugar into a saucepan with sufficient water to dissolve it. Have ready two pounds of flour, mixed ■with two pounds of sweet almonds blanched and pounded, a whole nutmeg grated, the rind of a lemon finely chopped, and a tea-spoonful of finely-ground ginger. Pour the hot syrup into this mix- ture, and make it into a stiff paste. Eoll it into a long, thick piece, and bake in a quick oven. When sufficiently cooked, cut it into convenient pieces, which should be placed before the fire for a little while to dry. These biscuits should not be exposed to the air. Time to bake, about an hour. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. Almond Sponge-Cake. —Take half a pound of loaf sugar, rub the rind of a lemon on two or three of the lumps, and crush the whole to powder. Then take five eggs, separate the ■whites from the yolks, and beat the latter for some minutes; then shake in the sugar gra- dually, and beat together. Stir in six ounces of flour, -with about twenty drops of the essence of almonds. Beat the whites to a solid froth, and add them to the rest. Fill a well-oiled tin about half full, and bake in a quick oven. Time to bake, about an hour. Pro- bable cost, Is. Sufficient for a moderate-sized mould. Almond Syrup (or Orgeat).—Blanch and pound three ounces of sweet and four or five bitter almonds thoroughly, adding a little rose-water to prevent oiling. Add gradually one quart of milk and water, and sugar to taste. Boil and strain it, when it will be ready for use. It is a nice flavouring for sauces, pud- dings, creams, ice, and also makes a boiieficial drink for persons att'ected with chest-com- plaints. Time, quai-U r of an hour. Sufficient for one quart. Probable cost, 9d. Almond Tofify.—Boil a pound of sugar, with half a pint of water, until it is brittle. 1'hrow in one ounce and a half of sweet almonds, blanched and cut into halves, with two ounces of butter. It is done when it hardens on a little being put into cold water. Pour out on a well-oiled dish. Time, quarter of an hour. Sufficient for a small disli full. Probable cost, 8d. Almonds, Candied.—Blanch some al- monds, and fry tlicin in butter or oil until they are nicely browned. Drain and dry them. Boil half a pint of water with half a i>ound of sugar, and Ining it to the candying point—that is, boil until the sugar adheres to the finger and thumb, when a little is taken between thenv and opened. The finger and thumb must first be dipped in cold water. Pour this upon the almonds boiling hot, and keep on stirring till they are cold. Time, half an hour. Probable cost, Is. 6d. per pound. Almonds, Coloured. — Blanch and chop, not too finely, as many sweet almonds as may be required, dry them thoroughly, pour- a little prepared cochineal into the hands and rub them, and keep them in a warm place. Saffron soaked in water ■will make thenv yellow, spinach-juice green. Pound the leaves- of the spinach, squeeze the juice, and put it into a little jar, which must be placed in boiling water, and then simmered gently for a few minutes. Almonds, Croquettes of. — Blanch and poimd a quarter of a pound of sweet and seven or eight bitter almonds ■with three- table-spoonfuls of sifted sugar, the white of an egg, and a glass of sherry or raisin ■wine.. Crumble a quarter of a pound of sponge-cake and add it to the mixture, -with the frothed whites of three more eggs. Beat it into a sohd paste, and mould it into small balls, about the size of a small orange. Dip them first into egg, then bread-crumbs, then sugar; frj- them, a few minutes in boiling butter or oil; drain and serve. Time to fry, six minutes. Probabla cost. Is. Almonds, Sugared. — Boil together a syrup made of one pound of sugar and one pint of water. Blanch one pound of sweet almonds, and put them in; let them boil for some minutes. Take them out and drain them; let the syrup boil until thick, ther. return the almonds, and take them out when coated with sugar, which will be in a miniite* or two. They should be thoroughly dried,, and kept in a warm place. Time to boil, ten. minutes. Almonds, To Blanch.—Put some al- monds with a little cold water n]->cn the fire, and let thorn remain until tho water is hot, but not boiling. Drain them and draw the skins off, placing them immediately into cold water, to preserve the colour.ALM AMS Almonds, To Pound—Almonds pound more easily when they are blanched for two or three days before using, and kept m a warm 'ilace they should be first shghtly chopped, then thrown into a mortar, and beaten until they are quite smooth, a few drops of any suitable Uquid, such as rose-water, orange-water, white of egg, lemon-juice, or cold water, being added now and then to prevent them oilmg. Almond and Bread Pudding.— Blanch and pound three ounces of sweet and six or seven bitter almonds, and allow them to simmer gently in half a pint of milk by the side of the fire for a quarter of an hour, to draw out the flavour. Then pour them into four oimces of moderately stale crusts of bread. .Stir in a quarter of a pound of beef suet finely shred, two table-spoonfuls of moist sugar, the same of flour, the finely-minced rind and the juice of a lemon, and two weU-beaten eggs. Beat the mixtui-e thoroughly, and pour it into a well-oiled mould; let it boil without stopping for three hours, and serve with sweet sauce. Sufficient for four or five persons. Probable cost, lOd. Almond and Orange Ice—Blanch and pound one ounce of sweet almonds with a little orange-flower-water to prevent them oiling. Put them into a saucepan with one pint of cream and the yolks of three eggs well beaten. Stir constantly tiU the egg thickens, then pour it out, let it cool, put it into the freezing-pot, and work the handle until it is sufficiently frozen. Put half a pound of loaf sugar and a cupful of water into an enamelled saucepan, with the white of an egg beaten to a stiff froth, and the thin rind of an orange. Put it on the fire and bring it to a syrup, then add to it three-quarters of a pint of orange-juice. Strain this and freeze it like the almond cream. Put a piece of cardboard into the mould, dividing it in two. Place the almond ice on one side and the orange ice on the other. Remove the card- board, close the mould, and let it remain in the ice imtil wanted. Time, half an hour to freeze. Sufficient for a quart of ice. Probable cost, 4s. Almond and Potato Pudding.— Blanch and pound three ounces of sweet al- monds and four or five bitter ones. Put them into half a pint of mUk, and allow them to simmer slowly for a quarter of an hour. Mix in smoothly half a pound of cold mealy potatoes, a quarter of a pound of butter, the grated rind and juice of a lemon, a little nutmeg, and three well-beaten eggs. Beat the mixture for some minutes with a wooden spoon. Put it into a weU-buttered mould, and bake in a quick oven. Turn out carefully, and serve with sifted sugar or almond sauce. Time to bake, about an hour. Probable cost. Is. 2d. Sufficient for six person?. Almond and Baisin Pudding.—Soak a cjuartcr of a pound of the stale crumb of bread in half a pint of new milk; add two table-spoonfuls of finely-shred suet, the same of currants washed and picked, a little sugar, the juice and finely-chopped rind of a lemon, three well-beaten eggs, and a table-spoonful of ale. Well butter a mould or basin. Place B* raisins in rows round it with four ounces of sweet almonds blanched and split in alternate rows (the butter -will make them stick), and pour the mixture in. Put it into boiling water, and allow it to boil for three hours. Turn out and serve with wine sauce. Suffi- cient for five or six persons. Probable cost, Is. Alpha Eocks.—Beat four ounces of butter to a cream, then stir in three-quarters of a pound of flour, six ounces of loaf sugar, two ounces of sweet almonds blanched and sliced, and one egg; mix thoroughly, then drop it in spoonfuls on a well-oiled tin, and bake in a moderate oven. Lemon or citron-peel and currants can be added if approved. Time to bake, about twenty minutes. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Alum Whey.—Boil in a saucepan half a pint of new milk, and pour into it four table- spoonfuls of raisin wine. If this does not turn it, add a litfle more. Let it boil, then put it away from the fire until the curd has settled to the bottom. Pour the -whey from the curd, and boil it up once more with half a pint of water in which a tea-spoonful of powdered alum (or more if preferred) and a little sugar have been dissolved. Time, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, 8d. Amber Pudding.—Beat half a pound of butter to a cream. Mix with it a quarter of a pound of flour, six table-spoonfuls of bread- crumbs, sugar to taste, the finely-chopped rind of three lemons, a pinch of salt, and three well-beaten eggs. Beat all well together, fill a buttered mould, and boil four hours. Finely- shred suet may be substituted for the butter. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Amber Pudding (another way).—Shred finely half a pound of beef suet without skin, and dredge a little flour over it to prevent it adhering. ]\Iix it with a quarter of a pound of flour, four ounces of bread-crumbs, two table- spoonfuls of sugar, the grated rind of a lemon, three eggs well beaten, and three table-spoon- fuls of orange marmalade. Beat all well together, put the mixture into a buttered mould, and boil for three hours. Serve with wine sauce. Sufficient for six persons. Probable cost„ Is. 6d. Ambrose Pudding.—Beat a quarter of a pound of butter to a cream, add to it two table-spoonfuls of pounded sugar, the juice of two lemons, a coflEee-cupful of new milk, three well-beaten eggs, and twenty drops of essence of almonds. In another bowl, mix two table- spoonfuls of chopped raisins, the same of currants, one ounce each of candied lemon,, orange, and citron, three large apples chopped small, two table-spoonfuls of marmalade, and a pinch of salt. Well butter a mould, place in it' a layer out of each bowl alternately, until both are emptied, and bake in a quick oven. This pudding may be eaten either hot or cold. Time, two hours and a half to bake. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for five or six persons. American Breakfast Buns.—Take tho chiU oS" a quart<:r of a i)int of milk, and mix itAME ( 10 ) AME with tho same (iiiiiutity of fiosh j'oiiHt; udd u quuitor of u pound of buttor nioltod, but not hot, sugar to taste, and a couple of eggs well beaten, and then, very gradually, sutliciont flour to make a tolerably linn dough. I'ut it into small tins, well oiling them iirst; sot tliem before the lire for about twenty minutes to rise, and bake in a quick oven. Do not make the buns too largo. Time to bake, twenty minutes. Sufficient for a dozen buna. Probable cost, 8d. American Breakfast (or Griddle Cakes).—Whisk two eggs, stir them into a quart of lukewarm milk, and add a tea-spoonful of salei-atus, and a salt-spooilful of salt. Mix •with thorn sufficient Indian meal to make a stilf batter, and bake them in small round tins ■which have been oiled or buttered. Bake in a good oven. Time to bake, twenty minutes. Probable cost. Id. each. This will make about two dozen cakes. American Biscuits (or WafQes). — Pour two pints of good milk into separate vessels. In one put a quarter of a poimd of butter, cut up and melted with a gentle "wai-mth, and allow it to cool. In the other vessel put eight eggs, beaten up lightly; mix these with the milk gradually. To this add, also gradually, a quarter of a pound of flour, then the milk containing the butter. Stir in a large table-spoonful of strong new yeast, cover the pan, and set it near the fire to rise. When the batter is quite light, take what in America is called a waffle-iron, in which the batter can be shut in, baked, and turned over. This is greased, some of the batter is WAFFLE-IBONS. poTired in, and it is put among the coals of a clear bright fire. The biscuits should be sent to table quite hot, half a dozen on a plate, with a little powdered cinnamon and white sugar. They arc called Waffles ; and wo have heard American ladies complain sadly of being tmable to get these delicious biscuits made in England. Waffle-irons may be obtained at Jewish ironmongers. They only require a few minutes to bake, and the above ingredients will make sufficient for five or six persons. Pro- bable cost, Is. 6d. American Oven.—This oven is neither so generally known jxor bo highly appreciated as it deserves to b(;. In hot weather, when a largo fire which would heat an oven or roast a joint is most objectionable, this little article, when once its management is understood, may AMEEICAK OVEir, be used to cook meat and puddings, or even pastry, and will be found to do its work per- fectly. It is particularly adapted for those preparations which require to be cooked slowly. A Httle experience is all that is necessary in using it. The only directions which can be given are that the oven must not be placed close to the fire, but about a foot and a half distant from it; that the meat should be turned and basted frequently; and that it should be put down in good time, so that it can be cooked slowly. A very small, though clear fire, is all that is necessary. If these hints are attended to, no difficulty need be experienced in using this convenient and economical appa- ratus. Probable cost, 9s. to 12s. American Pancakes.—Mix the yolks of four and the wliites of two eggs, ■with two table- spoonfuls of water. Put in a pinch of salt, and add gradually six heaped table-spoonfuls of flour; beat the mixture till it is quite smooth, and then add new milk sufficient to make a thin batter. Put a piece of butter the size of an egg into an omelet-pan. Let it melt, but not bro-wn. Then pour in a little of the mixture—enough to thiidy cover the pan. Let it stiffen, loosening it round the edges, and shaking it to prevent it sticking. Throw it up to turn the pancake, and when it is nicely browned on both sides it is ready. Send to table on one dish, piled one over the other, ■with pounded cinnamon and sifted sugar over each : cut into quarters, and serve hot. Time, five minutes to fry. Probable cost, lOd. Enough for a good-sized dish. American Sand-wiches.—Get half a pound of cold boiled ham or tongue, chop it fine, and put it into a basin, -with a table-spoonful of chopped pickles, a tea-spoonful of mustard, and a little pepper. Put about six oxmces of butter in a basin, and stir it quickly ■with a spoon till it forms a kind of cream ; add the chopped meat and seasoning, and mix all thoroughly. Cut some bread into thin slices, and some very thin slices of veal, fowl, or game; spread a slice ofAME ( U ) the bread with the above mixture, thou a slice of the moat; lay on another slice of bread, and so on, till the quantity required -is prepared. If cut into small shapes, these sandwiches prove very acceptable for breakfast or for evening parties. The above quantities ^ill make as many sandwiches as will fill a moderate-sized dish. Probable cost, 2s. American "Velvet Breakfast Cakes. —I'ut a pint of new milk on the lire; let it simmer a few minutes, but do not allow it to boil. Stir into it a piece of butter the size of a walnut. Add a little salt, and three spoon- fuls of good yeast, with thi-ee weU-beaten eggs. Mix with these sufficient flour to make a soft dough, which will be about three pounds. Knead all well together, and put the mixture in a warm place in a basin with a cloth over it, for two hours or more. Then make it up into small cakes, lay them quite near each other on a weU-oUed tin, and bake in a quick oven. Time, qiiarter of an hour to bake. Probable cost, Is. This will make about twenty- fom- cakes, and two are sufficient for each person. American White Cake.—Beat half a cupful of butter to a cream: work in gradually two and a half cupfuls of flour, a cupful of milk, the whites of si.x eggs, and, last of all, a tea-spoonful of cream of tartar, and half a tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda. Pour the mixture into a buttered tin, and bake in a quick oven. Directly it is taken out of the oven, brush whisked white of egg over the top, and sift loaf sugar on it. Time to bake, about an hour. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for a quart mould. Anchovies.—The best anchovies are those which are small and plump. The pickle should be red, and the scales white. They are pre- served in salt brine, and the bottle which contains them should be kept closely covered, as tho air soon spoils them. They should be washed in cold water before being used. Anchovies, Essence of.—Clean and remove the bones from one pound of anchovies, beat them into a pulp, and pass the soft portion through a sieve, so as to separate the flesh from any small bones, &c. Put those parts of the pulp that will not pass through the sieve into a pan with the bones, and simmer them, with the liquor in which they have been pickled, a blade of mace, a little cayenne pepper, a heaped tea- spoonful of salt, and a pint of water, for twenty minutes, strain, and add the soft portion of the anchovies that passed through the sieve. BoU all together at a moderate heat for a few mmutes. Then take tho vessel from the fire, and add a quarter of a pint of strong vinegar! Essence of anchovies should be kept in smali bottles, with the corks covered with bladder, and scaled to render them air-tight. Probable cost, 4s. Anchovies, Essence of (another way). —Remove the bones from three anchovies, and beat them into a paste with four green chihcs, or a small quantity of cayenne pepper, and twe shalots. Then mix them with a quarter of a pint of walnut ketchup, and half a |)iut of nmslu-oom ketchup, and preserve tho essence in well-closed bottles. Time, half an hour to prepare. Sufficient for one pint bottle. Probable cost, 2s. Anchovies, Essence of (another way). Beat half a pound of anchovies with the bones into a paste, and put it into a pint of spring water ; boil it quickly, till the anchovies are dissolved, then season it with black or cayenne pepper. If raisin wine be substituted for the water, the essence will be much richer. It should bo strained through a coarse sieve, and kept closely corked, as the au- injures it. Es- sence of anchovies thus made will not be of the bright colour or consistence of that gene- rally sold by oilmen, which is thickened Avith starch, and coloured with Armenian bole, or poisonous Venetian red; but the uncoloured essence is of greatly improved quality and flavoiu'. Time to boil, half an hour. Sufficient for rather more than a pint. Probable cost, Is. 8d., if made with water.. Anchovies, Essence of. Mock.—Boil a quart of old ale for a quarter of an horn-, let it stand till it is cold; take five Dutch pickled herrings, with their liquor (remoA^ng the heads and roes), pound or mince them finely, and put them into the ale, with a stick of horse-radish scraped; boil the liquid for twenty- minutes, then strain it. Hold a clean frying-pan over the fire, that it may be quite dry; put in a quarter of a pound of flour; keep stiri-ing it with a wooden spoon, tiU it is the colour of essence of anchovies; put the liquor to it, and stir it tin it boils; when cold, bottle it. If not of sufficient colour, put a little Armenian bole to it. Probable cost, Is. 4d. Sufficient to make two pints and a half. Anchovies, Fried. — Wash a dozen anchovies and dry them weU, cut oS. the heads, open them, and remove the backbone without breaking the fish. This part of the business must be dexterously done. Dip them in a light batter, and fry them in boiling oil, or lard, until they are slightly browned. If preferred, they may be soaked for three-quarters of an hour in a little nulk, and floured before frying. Time to fry, ^ five minutes. Probable cost, Is. 4d. Sufficient for two or three persons. Anchovies, Potted.—Potted anchovies are made in the same way as anchovy paste, spices and cayenne being added to the former. The air should be carefully excluded, or they will soon lose their colour. Anchovies, Simple Method of Serving. — Wash the anchovies lightly, and dry them in a soft cloth, being careful to handle them gently while doing this. Open them, and remove the backbone with- out injuring the fish. Arrange them neatly on a dish, garnish with the white of egg chopped finely, and a little parsley; cover them with oil, and serve. Probable cost. Is., for a half-pint bottle. Sufficient for five or six persons. Anchovies, To Fillet.—Wash the an- chovies ; cut o£E the heads and fins, scrapeANC ANC tho skin, nnd split them open with the fingers and thumbs; remove tho backhonc, and cut each fillet, or side, in two. They may bo seasoned with cayenne, and used for wmd- wichos. Time to soak, four hours. Probable cost. Is., for a half-pint bottle. Sufficient for throe or four persons. Anchovy and Caper Sauce.—Take a piece of butter the size of an egg; molt it in a sjuicopan; stir into it, with a wooden spoon, half its weight in flour; then add a quarter of a pint of water. When boiling, add two anchovies boned and chopped small, with a dessert-spoonful of bruised capers. A little lemon-juice is an improvement. Time, ten minutes. Sufficient for a small dish of fish. Probable cost, 6d. Anchovy Butter. — Take six pickled anchovies, cut off their heads, wash and bone them; then pound them with sufficient butter to make a paste, and add a little scalded and chopped parsley. If a pestle and mortar should not be at hand, the anchovies may be made into a paste and mixed with the butter vdth. a broad knife on a piece of hoard. This butter is very useful to flavoiir many sauces, especially those that are used for beef steaks. Average cost for a half-pint jar, Is. 8d. Time, half an hour. Anchovy Butter (another way).—Take three anchovies, wash, bone, and poimd them in a mortar; pull the stalks from a bunch of parsley, scald and chop it, and then pass it through a sieve. Mix these ingredients with half a pound of butter, and when quite blended make quickly into pats. Garnish with parsley. If prettily moulded it looks weU on a supper- table. Average cost, Is. Anchovy Butter Sauce.—Add to half a pint of good brown sauce, or sauce Espagnole, a piece of anchovy butter half the size of an egg, and also some lemon-juice to conceal the salt taste produced by the butter. Mix thoroughly and serve. Anchovy Ketchup.—Put half a gaUon of mild ale into a saucepan with half a pound of anchovies, three blades of mace, one tea-spoonful of sifted sugar, a little whole ginger, six small onions, a couple of cloves, and twenty black peppercorns. Let all boil up once, then draw them from the fire, and allow them to simmer slowly for three-quarters of an hour. Strain tliroug:h a fine hair sieve, and stir into the strained liquid two table-spoon- fuls of mushroom ketchup. When it is quite cold, bottle it, and cork it securely. Probable cost, Is. 6d. per quart. Sufficient for two quart hottles. Anchovy Omelet.—Take half a dozen salted anchovies; wash them lightly in cold water to remove a little of the salt taste, and fillet the fish. The fillets of anchovy, bottled in oil, sold at Italian warehouses, answer perfectly. Fry thin slices of bread, cut them into small squares, and on each square lay a little piece of anchovy. Beat up, rather more than for an ordinary omelet, a dozen eggs ; season with pepper and salt. With half the quantity make a large, flat, thin omelet, like a pancake. Do not tum it, but lay it on a hot disli. Over its sui-fuco distribute the jjieces of fried bread and anchovy. Witli the remainder of tho eggs make another omelette like the first. Lay it over the other with the under- side uppeiTOost. Sot it a few minutcH before the fire, or in a gentle oven, to make the two surfaces adhere, and serve with any savoury siiuce that suits tho taste. Time to fry, five minutes for each omelet. Sufficient for six persons. Probable cost, 28. Anchovy Paste.—Take a dozen anchovies, scrape them clean, mise the flesh from tho bones, and pound them most thoroughly in a mortar; then press them through a fine sieve. Add the same .weight of butter melted, but not hot. The less butter used the stronger will be the flavour of the anchovies. Time, about half an hour. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for a small jar. Anchovy Powder.—Pound some an- chovies in a mortar. Kub them through a hair sieve, and make them into a paste with dried and sifted flour. ItoU them into cakes, then toast them before the fire, and rub them to powder. If the flavour is liked, grated lemon- rind and cayenne may be added after the cakes are baked. Put the powder in a bottle, cork it closely, and it will keep for years. It is useful for flavouring purposes, and makes a nice relish when sprinkled over sandwiches or toast. Time to prepare, about an hour. Probable cost. Is. for a half-pint 'bottle. A dessert-spoonful of powder wiU flavour half a pint of sauce. Anchovy Salad.—Wash six anchovies- in water, remove the bones and the insides, and also the heads, fins, and tails. Put them on a dish with two large lettuces cut small, half a dozen young onions, a salt-spoonful of chopped parsley, and a sliced lemon. Pour over them the juice of a lemon mixed with salad-oil,, and send to table. Time to prepare, ten minutes. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for a small dish. Anchovy Sauce.—Take six anchovies, cut oflE their heads, and wash them well, then let them boil gently in a quarter of a pint of water until they are dissolved. Strain the liquid, and add to it a pint of melted butter, cayenne and nutmeg to taste, and two table- spoonfuls of port wine. Serve with the fish. The sauce should be poured over boiled fish and round fried fish. Time to boil, half an hour. Sufficient for a large-sized dish of fish. Pro- bable cost. 8d., exclusive of the wine. Anchovy Sauce (another way).—Cut the heads off four anchovies, bone them, and pound them in a mortar with sufficient butter to make a paste. Have ready a pint of melted butter, and mix it gradually and smoothly \y\ih. the paste. Add cayenne pepper to taste, and the juice of half a "lemon, and lot all boil up for a. minute, stirring all the time. Time to boil, five minutes. Sufficient for a large-sized dish of fish. Probable cost, 8d. Anchovy Sauce (another way).—A quick- and easy way of making anchovy sauce is to stir two or three spoonfuls of prepared essenc*ANC ( 13 ) APP of ancho\y, which may be bought at any grocer's, into a pint of melted butter. Let the sauce boil, aud flavour with lomon-juico. Time, ten minutes to boil. Probable cost, 4d. Sufficient, two tea-spoonfuls to a pint. Anchovy Sauce for Beef.—Wash four -anchovies lightly and dry them well, then re- move the bones, and cut the flesh into small pieces. Dredge some flour thickly over these, <ind fry them in a little butter over a gentle Jire for five or six minutes. Pour half a pint of stock broth over them, add salt and pepper if required, and an inch or two of cucumber cut into dice. Simmer the sauce gently, and before ■sending to table stii- into it a tea-spoonful of bruised capers. Time to simmer, twenty minutes. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Anchovy Sauce for Salmon.—Incor- j)orate with a i^int of boiling melted butter a couple of tea-spoonfuls of essence of anchovies, and add cayenne and lemon-juice to suit the taste. A similar sauce may be made with essence of shiimps; but true shrimjj sauce (con- taining the meat of the shrimps) is not usually served with salmon. Time, ten minutes. Pro- bable cost, 6d. Sufficient, two tea-spoonfuls of the essence to a pint of sauce. Anchovy Toast.—Wash five or six an- chovies, and cut ofl^ their heads and fins. Fillet them — that is, take the backbone out and divide the fish into two, from the shoulder to the tail. Make some well-buttered toast, lay the fish upon it, and add mustard and cayenne to suit the palate; or make the anchovy into a paste {see Aiichovy Paste^, and spread it over .slices of toast, about halt an inch thick. Six anchovies are sufficient for two rounds of toast. Probable cost, 4d. Angelica, Candied.—Take the plant in April: boil it in salt and water until it is tender. Kemove and drain it well, scrape the outside, and drj^ it in a clean cloth. Place it in a S}Tup, and allow it to remain there for three? or four days, closely covered. The syrup must be made from the same weight of sugar that there is of fruit, allowing half a pint of water to a pound cf sugar, and must be boiled twice a day, and poured over the fruit until it is mearly all absorbed; after which it should be put into a pie-dish, and placed near the fire. Time to make, about ten days. Angelica can seldom be bought in the market. Angelica Batafia is a very rich, fine cordial, made by putting half a pound of the shoots of the above plant into two quarts of Lrandy, with a pint of water, two pounds of sugar, a few cloves, and a little cinnamon. The angelica mu.st infuse for two months in a oloso vessel before it is strained and bottled. Probable cost, per pint, 3d., exclusive of the brandy. Annie's (Rich) Cake.—Rub one pound of butter and one pound of lard into four pounds of flour; add a salt-s-poonf ul of salt, twelve tea- spoonfuls of baking powder, two pounds of sugar, one pound of raisins, three pounds of currants, half a pound of chopped candied lemon, citron, and orange-peel mixed, a tea- spoonful of mixed spices, and eight eggs weU. beaten. Mix lightly with now milk. Bake in a quick oven. Sufficient for five cakes weighing about two pounds each. Probable cost, Is. each. Time to bake, one hour and a half. Apple, The.—The apple is a British fruit, and may be eaten raw, or cooked in various ways. The best for eating are : the Iilargarets, Blenheim Oranges, Pibstone, Golden and other Pippins, Nonpariel Pussets, Pear- mains, Kentish Codlins, and Dowtons. As a rule the rough-rinded apj^les are the best for eating, while those of smooth exterior are most suitable for preparation. For cooking the most preferable are : the Wellingtons, Colvilles, liennets, Pearmains, and Russets; while both for eating and for baking purposes the American Pippins occupy a high place. Apple Batter Pudding.—Put into a bowl half a pound of flour and a little salt, and stir very gradually into it half a pint of milk. Beat it until quite smooth, then add three eggs. WeU butter a pie-dish, and pour about half the batter into it. Place it in a quick oven, and bake it imtil quite firm. Nearly fill the dish with apples, pared, cored, and sliced, and slightly stewed with a little sugar, and lemon-rind, or any other flavouring. Pour the rest of the batter in, and replace in the oven. Time to bake, one hour and a half. Sufficient for six persons. Probable cost, Is. Apple Black Caps.—Take a few firm, juicy apples, pare them, and take out the cores without breaking the apples. Fill the hollow of each with some pounded sugar and one or two cloves. Place them in a shallow dish with a little sweet wine, sugar to taste, and a little lemon-rind, a few cloves, or any flavouring that may be preferred. Let them stew slowly in the oven until the apples are soft through- out, but do not let them break, and when they are sufficiently done, heat the tops with a sala- mander, to make them look black. They may be served hot or cold, and will keep some days. Time, about half an hour to bake. One will suffice for each person. Apple Butter, American.—Fill a pre- sei-v'iug-pan with apples peeled, quartered, and cored. Add a slight flavouring of cloves, aU- 'spice, and cinnamon. Cover with good cider, and boil slowly, stirring from time to time with a wooden spoon, until the whole becomes a dark brown jam, with only juice sufficient to keep it soft and buttery. Remove it from the fire, and place in well-covered jars, and in a few weeks it will be ready for use. It makes an excellent substitute for butter, and is very wholesome for children. Time to prepare, five or six hours. Probable cost per pint, lOd. Apple Cakes.—Take two pounds of apples, pare, core, and quarter them. Stew them gently with one pound of sugar, the juice and finely-chopped rind of a lemon, a table- spoonful of butter, and half a nutmeg grated. Beat these ingredients thoroughly together, and drop them in small rounds upon a sheet of well- oiled paper. Place them in a cool oven, andf 14 ) APP APP bako them utitil thoy are firm, which will take about a quarter of an hour. Thoy should bo kept in a tin box. Probable coat, la. Apple Cake Pudding;.—Take throe pounds of linoiy-llavourod baking apples, and boil them to a pulp with the; rind of two lemons, a cupful of water, and cv^ht ounces of sugar. Beat them well, and mix with them gradually, six good-sized potatoes, boUcd and crushed quite small. Then add three or four well- whisked eggs, pour into a buttered mould, and boil quickly. Servo with sweot sauce. Time to boil, ono hour and a half. Sufficient for six persons. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Apple Cairs-foot Jelly.—Take four pounds of good cooking apples, core them, and stew them gently, with the thin rind of two lemons, in a quart of water, until they are reduced to a pulp. Then strain the liquid through a jelly-bag once or twice, until it is quite clear. "WHien cool, place it in a saucepan with three pints of strong calf's-foot stock, the juice of the lemons, sugar to taste, and the JELLY MOULD. shells and beaten whites of four eggs. Bring it quickly to a boil, and allow it to simmer for a quarter of an hour, being careful not to stir it. Draw it from the fire, and let it stand for another quarter of an hoxir. Strain it two or three times through a jelly-bag, until perfectly clear. Pour into moulds, and let it stand until next day. Time to stew the apples, about an hour. Sufl&cient for two quart moulds. Pro- bable cost, 2s. per quart. Apple Charlotte.—Pare, core, and slice three pounds of good cooking apples, and stew them gently to a pulp, with a little sugar and, the thmly-chopped rind of two lemons. Well butter a mould, and plac^ at the bottom and round it thin slices of stale bread dipped in melted butter. Let the pieces of bread overlap each other, or the apple will escape. Lay a thin sHce of bread the shape of the mould over the top, cover it with a plate, and place a ■weight on it, and bake in a quick oven. Turn it out, and serve hot, with sifted sugar. Time to bake, one hour. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for a pint mould. ,, Apple Charlotte (another way).—^Well butter a pie-dish, then place in it in alternate* layers: first bread and butter, without the crust, then apples cored, pared, and sliced, a little sugar, and the juice and thinly-chopped rind of lemon, and repeat \mtil the dish is fuU. Cover with the peel of the apples, and bake in a brisk oven. Turn out, aud serve with sifted sugar. Time to bake, ono hour. A medium- sized dishful will serve four persons. Probabl.- cost, 8d, Apple Charlotte (another way). — A veiy guod Apj>lu Charlotte is made of finger- biscuits instead of pieces of bread. The mixture should be poured in hot, and well pressed down, then put into a cool place. It should be eaten cold; a little whipped cream is an improvement. Time, half an hour to make. Sufficient for five or six persons. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Apple Chartreuse.—Boil gently a cup- ful of the best rice and a little finely-grated lemon-i-ind in a quart of milk, until the rice in tender and the milk absorbed in it; add sugai- to taste. Then take eight or ten apples, and core without breaking them: put them in a dish with a little raspberrj- or red currant jam in each hoUow, and place the rice between the apples until the dish is full. Brush the whole over with the white of an egg, and sift a Uttle sugar over it. Bake in a quick oven. Time to bake, one hour. Sufficient for six persons. Probable cost, Is. Apple Cheesecakes.—Pare and core half a pound of apples, and stew them with half a pound of sugar, the finely-chopped rind of a lemon, and a tea-cupful of water. Melt three ounces of butter; take five eggs, leave out the whites of two, beat them well, and mix all thoroughly together. Bake in patty-pans lined with puJE paste for a quarter of an hour. Allow one cake for each person. Probable cost> Is., without the pufE paste. Apple Cheese and Cream.—Stew to a thick pulp two pounds of apples, one pound of sugar, a little chopped lemon-rind, and half a pint of water. Put it into a mould, and when stiff, turn it out, and pour round it a little custard made of two cupfuls of new milk, the rind of a lemon, the yolk of an egg, and a tea- spoonfui of ground rice, mixed together, and boiled for a few minutes. Time to boil, five minutes. Sufficient for four or five persons. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Apple Cream.—Peel three pounds of apples, remove the cores, and cut them in thin slices. Put them into a saucepan -with half a pound of crushed sugar, the rind of a lemon finely shred, half an oimce of ground ginger, and four table-spoonfuls of red wine. Let them simmer until they are soft enough to press through a sieve, then put them in a dish, and allow them to cool. Boil a quart of cream or new milk, vnih some nutmeg, and add the apples to it, beating all thoroughly together. Time to simmer, about half an hour. Probable cost. Is. 2d., if made with milk. Sufficient for eight persons. Apple Cream (another way).—B9il six or seven Targe apples, with a little cinnamon, to a ])ulp, with sufficient sugar to sweeten them; the quantity of sugar must be regulated by the acidity of the apples. "WTien cold, add to them the woll-whiskod whites of three eggs. Beat all together until they are nicely frothed;APP ( 15 ) APP then serve, heaped on a dish. Time to beat, a qiuirter of an hour. Probable- cost, 8d. Sufficient for a small side-dish. Apple Creamed Tart.—Make an ordi- nary apple tart, flavoured and sweetened. "When baked, cut out the middle of the top, leaving merely a border all round. Let the apples be- come qiute cold, and then pom- a nicely-flavoured custard over it, and strew on the top a little pink sugar. Time, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Apple Custard.—Take four pounds of finely-flavom-ed apples, and stew them gently, till tender, with a pint and a half of water, one poimd of sugar, and a little cinna- mon. Strain the liquid, and stir into it, very gradually, eight well-beaten eggs. Put the mixture into a saucepan, and stir it until it thickens, which will be in about ten minutes. Pour into custard-glasses, and cover with sifted sugar. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for nine or ten glasses. Apple Custard Pudding.—Take a dozen flnely-flavourod apples, peel, core, and boil them with the lind of two lemons, half a pound of sugar, and a cupful of water, imtil they will pass through a sieve. Let them get cold; then add to them a little butter, and the whites of four eggs well whisked. Beat all together imtil tho mixture is smooth and firm. Turn into a Avell-buttered dish, and bake in a qmck oven. Sift a little sugar over them. They are nice either hot or cold. Time to bake, about half an hour. Sufficient for six persons. Probable cost. Is. Apple Custard Pudding (another way).—Put into a stewpan one dozen apples peeled and cored, the chopped rind of two lemons, half a pound of sugar, and a cupful of water. Simmer gently until reduced to a pulp ; and place at the bottom of a deep dish, well oiled. Take a pint of new milk, mix with it, gradually, a little sugar, the yolks of two eggs, and a dessert-spoonful of arrowroot or ground rice. Put them in a saucepan, and let them remain on the fire, stirring constantly until the custard begins to thicken. Pour it over the cold apple, and bake in a good oven. Time to bake, three-quarters of an hour. Sufficient for six persons. Probable cost. Is. Apple Dumplings.—Shred as finely as possible from six to eight ounces of suet; mix with it a pinch of salt, one pound of flour, a small spoonful of baking-powder, and enough cold water to make it into a stifi paste. Use a fork in mixing. f?oll it out, and Ime a well-buttered basin with it. Fill the basin with apples, pared, cored, and sliced; add a little sugar, one or two cloves, and a little water. Cover it with the paste, and pinch it all roimd. Tie it in a well- I floured cloth, and boU for two hours and a half. As soon as it is turned out of the basin, cut a little hole in tho top, or tho steam will make the pastry heavj'-. Serve with sweet sauce. Sufficient for six persons. Probable cost. Is. Apple Dumplings (another way),—Take as many apples as you wish to make dumpUngs, allowing one dumpling for each person. Pare them, and scoop tho core out without breaking them. Fill each cavity with a clove, a little piece of butter, and as much sugar as will fill it. Cover each apple separately with a little piece of suet paste, tie in a floured cloth, and boil. Before serving, put a little piece of butter and sugar into each dumpling. Loosely- knitted cloths are very nice for puddings ; they are most easily washed, and produce a pretty effect. Boil half an hour. Probable cost, 2d. each dumpling. Apple Dumplings, Baked.—For a, change, apple dumplings may be baked instead of boiled. They arc made exactly in the same way as the preceding, but instead of being tied in a cloth and boiled, they are placed upon a buttered tin, and put into a moderate oven. Time to bake, three-quai-tcrs of an houi\ Pro- bable cost, 2d. each. Apple Flummery.—Pare, core, and slice tM'o pounds of apples, and put them into a stewpan with one pound of sugar, the finely- chopped rind of a lemon, and sufficient water to cover them. Let them stew gently until quite tender, then drain them from the juice, and beat them to a pulp. Soak an ounce of gelatine in a little cold water for twenty minutes. Put it into a saucepan with the apple-juice, and stir imtil the gelatine is dis- solved : add the apples and a cupful of cream. Stir for a few minutes over the fire, but do not let the mixture boil. Tirni it into a mould that has been soaked in cold water, letjt stand until stiff, then turn out, and pom- a good custard over it. Time to stiffen, eight or ten hours. Probable cost Is. lOd., exclusive of the custard. Sufficient for six persons. Apple Fool.—Take two pounds of apples pared and cored. Put them into a saucepan, with a cupful of water, one or two cIoa'cs, and sugar to taste. Let them simmer till quite soft,, and beat them w'ell with a wooden spoon. Mix with them, gradually, a pint of new milk, or milk and cream, boiled and allowed to become cold, sweetened and flavoured. Time to sim- mer the apples, about half an hour. Probable cost, made with milk, 8d. Sufficient for four persons. Apple Fool (another way).—Prepare the apple iju the same way as in the preceding case ; but instead of adding milk to the fruit, mix with it a good cold custard. Apple Fritters.—Make a smooth, stiff batter of half a pound of flom', a little salt, one table-spoonful of clarified butter, three well-beaten eggs, about a quarter of a pint of milk, and a table-spoonful of beer: the latter may be omitted. Pare and scoop out the cores of a few large apples; slice them in rounds about half an inch thick; strew sugar thickly over them, and let them remain for two hours. Then throw them into the batter; take each piece out separately, and fry it in plenty of hot lard or oil. When' tliey are nicely browned on both sides, lay them on c. piece of blotting- paper to absorb the grease : then heap them up on a hot dish, and serve with sugar. Time, tAPP APP ( IG ) oiglit iniiuitos to fry. rrobublQ oost, lOd. iSutlicieiit for four porsoiis. Apple Fritters, Rich..—Tuko a pint of \ hot cruiun, two f^hissua of port wiuo, uiid u | cupful of alo; mix woll, tiud -svlion cold, udd tho yolks of four (i-^f^s aud tho whites of two, ali whiskod: a littlo suit, ginger, and nutmeg arc au improvuinout. Lot the apples, prepared aa in the preceding recipe, soak in wine and sugar for two or three hours before using. Throw thorn into tho batter, drain, and fry thorn in boiling oil or lard. Wlien tliey are tender, place them on blotting-paper for two or throe niinutoa, and pile them in a pyramid on a hot dish. Tlioy should bo dry enough to bo oaten with tho fingers. Time to fry, eight minutes. Suflicient for ton or twelve persons. Probable cost, 2s., exclusive of the vnne and ale. Apple Gateau.—Boil one pound of loaf sugar in half a pint of water till it makes a vich syrup. Peel, core, and slice very thinly two pounds of Nonpareil, or any other nicely-flavoured apples which will fail easily. Boil in the syrup ■with tho rind and juice of a lemon until stiff. Pour the mixture into a mould, and the follo'w'ing day turn it out and ■serve with custard. Time, ahout two hours. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for iive or six persons. Apple Gateau (another way).—Prepare the apples as in the last recipe. ^Vlien reduced to pulp, add half an ounce of gelatine which has been previously soaked for three-quarters of an hour in four table-spoonfuls of water. Stir all over the fire until the gelatine is dis- solved, pour into a damp mould, and, before serving, stick into the gateau two ounces of sweet almonds blanched and sliced. Serve with a good custard roimd the dish. Probable cost, Is. 3d. Time, an hour and a half. As the gelatine will help to stiffen the gateau, the apples need not boil so long as in the previous recipe. Apple Ginger.—Boil gently together a quarter of a pound of whole ginger bnused, three pounds of sugar, a pint and a half of water, and the juice of three lemons. Bring it to the boil- ing point, then put in three pounds of ajjples weighed after they have been pared and cored. Simmer them gently, and let them remain until the apples have become clear, but be careful that they are not broken. They must be kept in a covered jar in a dry place, and will keep good for some time. Time, three-quarters of an hour, to boil the apples. Probable cost, Is. 8d. Sufficient for nine or ten persons. Apple Ginger (another way).—Imitation OF PuHSEuvEi) GixGEK.—Take four pounds of apples, weighed after they have been pared and cored, and cut them into quarters; make a syrup of two pounds of sugar boiled in one pint of water, and pour it over the fruit. Let the apples stand in this two days; then add four pounds of loaf sugar, and the chopped rind and juice of three lemons. Put into a muslin bag two ounces of bruised ginger, and half a tea- spoonful of cayenne. Let all simmer until tho fruit is soft, but not broken, and tho juice clear: add a glass of gin. Time to siuuuer, about an hour. Probalilo cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for four one-pound jars. Apple Ginger (another way). — Pare, core, and slice three pounds of hard apples. Put them into a little cold water, to preserve the colour, until tliey are n^quired. lioil to a syrup tliree poundh of loaf sugar and a pint and a half of water, with the Juice of two lemans and a little of the rind. 'J^hrow in the apples; let them boil until clear, and add, a few minutes before they are ren^o^'ed from the fire, an ounce and a half of concentrated ginger. Keep them in covered jars, in a dry j)lace. Time to boil, three-quai-ters of an h*ur. Pro- bable cost, 2s. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Apple Hedgehog. — Take two dozen large apples, part's and cored: boil them to a smooth jam, sweetened and flavoured with es- sence of ahnonds. Pare one dozen and a half more, scoop out the cores, and boil them in sugar and water until tender. Take them gently out of the saucepan, and fill the hollow in the middle of each with any bright-coloured jam, and arrange them on a dish, in two or three layers, as nearly as possible in the form of a hedgehog. Fill the empty space with the jam, and make all smooth. Cover the whole with sugar icing, and stick almonds blanched and split thickly over it. Place the dish into a good oven, to make the apples hot and brown the almonds. Time to simmer, about half an hour. Sufficient for eight persons. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Apple Hedgehog, Iced.—Dissolve in a well-lined saucepan eight ounces of good sugar with half a pint of water, and stew in the sjTup until tender a dozen or more good- sized apples, pared and cored. Drain them from the sugar, and pile them on a dish to resemble the form of a hedgehog. Slice eighteen or twenty good boiling apples, keep them over a very slow fire until they are a smooth, dry pulp, then fill in, so as to make an even surface, all the spaces between the apples, as well as the hollows from which the cores were taken, with it. Spread it evenly all over with the back of a spoon. Make an icing with the whites of three eggs, and three heaped tca- spoonf uls of white sugar. Of this lay on a thick coating, w-hich must again be covered with sifted sugar. Cut half a pound of blanched almonds in the usual spiked form, and fix them thickly over the hedgehog. Bake to give the almonds a little colour, and wann the apples through in a moderately hot oven. Time, twenty to thirty minutes to stew ripples. Pro- bable cost, 2s. Sufficient for five or six persons Apple Jam.—Pare, core, and slice four pounds of good baking apples: jjut them in a saucepan with three pounds of sifted sugar, and the grated rind and juice of four lemons. Stew gently, stirring constantly until the jam is firm and smooth. Put it into covered jars, and keep it in a dry place. It is a good plan to lay the apples and other ingredients in layers in a stone jar, and place the jar in the oven in the middle of a tin full of water, which is to be replenished a.s *APP APP ( 17 ) it boils away, until tho fruit is tender. Then poxiT it into a preserving-pan, and boil for twenty minutes. Time to stow, three or four hours. Probable cost, Is. lOd. One pound of apples will make about one pound of jam. Apple Jam (another way).—Pare, core, and slice tlu-ee pounds of apples. Place them in a presor\'ing-pau with a lictle cinnamon, two or thi-ee cloves, the juice of two lemons, two and a half pounds of sugar, and just enough water to keep them from burning. Stir them continually with a wooden spoon, until they are reduced to pulp. Pour this into jars, and cover closely. It will not keep so well as jam made by the preceding recipe, but it is more quickly made. Time to boil, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost,ls.8d. Allow one pound of fruit for a one-pound jar. Apple Jelly.—Simmer seven pounds of apples and seven pints of water until the apples are soft. Strain them, but do not squeeze them, two or three times imtil quite clear, and then mix in the juice of two lemons and a pound of loaf sugar to every pint of liquid. Boil until it becomes stiff. If rosy-cheeked apples are used, the jelly wdll be bright red. Tlie apples should not be pared, but well rubbed with a cloth. Time, from twenty minutes to half an hour to boil after straining. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Apple Jelly (another way).—Pare, core, and shce three pounds of apples. Put them into a stewpan with a tea-cupful of water. When reduced to a pulp, put them into a jelly-bag and let them dxain all night; they must not be •squeezed. Next morning put the juice into a saucepan, being careful not to put any sediment with it, adding a pound of sugar to a pint of juice, and a few drops of the essence of Vanillai Boil it until it wiU stiffen when cold; cover tho jars as soon as possible. The pulp may be made into jam. Time to boil with the sugar, about twenty minutes. Probable cost. Is. Apple Juiee for Jelly.—Peel, core, and ■weigh four pounds of finely-flavoured cooking apples: put them into a stewpan with three pints of water, and let them simmer gently until they are broken. Strain the juice from them, and boil it again, with half a pound of sugar to each pint of juice. This juice is very nice to use in preserving other fruits. Time to boil with the sugar, five minutes. Probable cost. Is. Sufficient for three or four pints. Apple Mange.—Reduce to a pulp a dozen :fine apples, and sweeten and flavour according to taste. "When quite cold, pour it into a glass dish, and cover it with whipped cream, which will be much firmer if made the day before it is wanted. Time to simmer the apples, forty minutes. Sufficient for four or five persons. Probable cost, 2s. 3d., with a pint of cream. Apple Marmalade.—Pare, core, and slice four pounds of apples, and place them in a saucepan with sufficient water to cover them barely. Boil them until quite pulpy, then pass them through a sieve. Put a poimd of sugar and a little cinnamon to a pint of pulp, and boil once more, stirring constantly, for half an hour or more. Place the marmalade in jars, and cover them as soon as possible. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for five or six one- pound jars. Apple Mincemeat.—Stew a pound of beef imtil very tender, mince it as small as l^ossible: add two pounds of apples, one pound of finely-shred suet, two poimds of currants, haK a pound of stoned raisins, and three-quai-ters of a pound of sugar. The apples, raisins, and suet shoidd all be minced separately. Mix these in- gredients weU together, with one nutmeg grated, a little mace, the gravy in which the meat was stewed, a whole lemon chopped, one glass of brandy, and two glasses of port wine. Keep it in covered jars. Time to prepare, about an hour. Probable cost, 3a. 6d., without the brandy and wine. Sufficient to make six pounds of mincemeat. Apple Mould.—Pare, core, and slice two pounds of golden pippins. Put them into a saucepan with a pint of water, one pound of sugar, and one ounce of isinglass. Let all boil gently together until the apples are quite soft. Then beat them well, until quite smooth, with a few drops of Vanilla flavouring. Oil a mould, lay the apple smoothly into it, and let it stand in a cold place. Serve with whipped cream. Time to simmer, half an hour. Sufficient for five or six persons. Probable cost. Is. lOd., exclusive of the cream, Apple Pancakes.—Make a good stiff batter with four table-spoonfuls of flour, a little sugar, three eggs, half a pint of milk, a little powdered cinnamon, and a pinch of salt. Chop six moderate-sized apples verj- small, mix them with the batter, and fry the pancakes in the usual way. They will require great care in turning. Time to fry, ten minutes. Probable cost. Is. Sufficient for a moderate-sized dish. Serve one for each person. Apple Pancakes (another way).-?-Make the batter the same as in the preceding recipe. Fry the pancakes, and, when they are browned on both sides, spread a little apple marmalade thinly over the top; fold them in three, and cover with sifted sugar. Serve on a hot dish. Time to fry, ten minutes- Probable cost. Is. Apple Pasty (or Turnover).—Make a short crust with half a pound of flour, two ounces of butter, two ounces of lard, and a little salt. Eub the butter thoroughly into the flour, mix it with very little water, and roll it out thin on the pastry-board. Stamp out with a small cup- plate as many rounds as you wish to make pasties. Moisten the inside of the round; lay stewed apples, sweetened and flavoured, on one half, and lift the other half right over it. Press the edges, and bake in a quick oven. A plain and very nice crust may be made with good beef dripping and a little baking-powder. Time to bake, a quarter of an hour. This will make a dozen pasties. Servo one or two for each person. Probable cost. Id. each.APP ( 18 ) APP Apple Pie.—Make a good light cnist; wet the edge of the pie-dish, and lay a thin strip all round. Tare, core, and slice the apples, and lay them in tho dish with a little sugar and any llavouring that may be preferred—such as powdoro(l ginger, two or tlu-eo cloves, grated lemon-rind, with the j uico of tho lemon, a little cinnamon, &c. Lay a crust over the top, and ornament with pastry cut into loaves. If tho apples are dry, tho parings and cores may bo boiled with a little siigar and flavouring, and the strained j nice added to the fruit. Bake the pie in a quick oven. It may bo served hot or cold. A little custard or croam is an improvement. Time, three-quarters of an horn* to bake. Pro- bable cost, lOd. for a pic, sufficient for five persons. Apple Plum Pudding.—Shred finely six ounces of beef suet; add to it a pinch of salt, half a pound of finely-grated bread-crumbs, four ounces of sugar, half a pound of raisins, half a pound of currants, half a pound of chopped apples, two table-spoonfuls of dried flour, two ounces of chopped candied peel, and half a tea-spoonful of mixed spice. IMix the dry ingredients thoroughly, then beat four eggs in a wine-glassful of brandy, stir well together, pour into a well-oiled mould, or tie up in a weU-floiired pudding-cloth, and boil four hours. Serve with brandy sauce. Time to boil, four hours. Sufficient for six persons. Probable cost, Is. 8d., without the brandy. Apple Pudding, Baked. — Pare, quarter, and core three pounds of good baking apples: put them in a saucepan with six ounces of sugar and half a cupful of water, and the rind and juice of a lemon. Boil them gently until they are quite soft. Turn them out of the saucepan, and put them aside to cool. Butter the inside of a shallow pie-dish, and line it throughout with good ordinary pie- crust. Add to the apple pulp two or three well-beaten eggs, and put the mixture into the dish. Make the top smooth, and grate a little nutmeg over it. Bake in a quick oven. This pudding may be served either hot or cold. Time to bake, three-quarters of an hour. Pro- bable cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for six persons. Apple Pudding, Baked. — Line a baking-dish with puif paste, and cover the bottom with sliced pippins, which should be peeled and cored. Mix together the crumb of a French roll and a pint of thick cream; add eight eggs well beaten, three or four ounces of sugar, nutmeg, and the same weight of candied peel (orange) cut into small pieces. Spread this mixture over the pippins and bake. Serve with sifted sugar over tho top. Bake in a moderate oven. Time, three-quarters of an hour to bake. Probable cost, Ss. 6d. Sufficient for seven or eight persons. Apple Pudding, Baked (another way). —Pare, core, and chop small a dozen good cooking apples. Oil a pudding-dish, and cover the bottom and sides half an inch thick with grated bread, small pieces of butter, a squeeze of lemon-juice and a little lemon-rind; then put a layer of apples, sweetened, and repeat in altemato layers imtil the dish is full. Tlie top Ifiyer nniet be of bread. I'oui' over tho whole a cupful of cold water. Bake in a good oven. It may be u«ed the day after it is nuuie, when it m\iBt bo heated thoroughly. Tnne to bake, according to the quality of the apples. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for six persons. Apple Pudding, Baked (another way). —Fill tho dish as in the ])receding recipe, but instead of pouring a cupful of cold water over all, pour threo or four eggs beaten with a littio new milk. Bake in a quick oven. Sift sugar over tho top, and servo with sweet sauce. Time to bake, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Sufficient for six persons. Apple Pudding, Baked (another way). —Put a dozen apples into a sauceijan with, enough water to keep them from burning, a piece of butter, a little powdered cinnamon, and sugar according to taste. Let them simmer gently untU they faU, then beat them weU. Place them in the middle of a pie-dish, and poui- round and over them a good thick arrowroot custard. Put into a quick oven, and bake uutU. brown. Time to brown, twenty minutes. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Apple Pudding, Baked, Eich.—Line a pie-dish with good short crust. Stew four pounds of apples, and when hot, add a quarter of a pound of butter. Let them stand aside to cool, then add a cupful of cream, four well- beaten eggs, sugar to taste, grated lemon-rind, and grated nutmeg. Stir all well together, then place the mixture in the pie-dish, and bake in a good oven. Serve -with Devonshire cream, or custard. Time, half an horn to bake. Sufficient for six persons. Probable cost, 3s. Apple Pudding, Boiled.—Make a hght batter \sith two eggs, four heaped table-spoon- fuls of flour, a little salt, and a large breakfast- cupful of milk. Beat it well, then stir into it a few apples pared, cored, and shced. Put all together into a weU-oiled mould, tie it in a floured cloth, and boil for an hour and a half. Serve with sweet sauce. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for six persons. Apple Pudding. Nottingham.—Pare half a dozen good baidng apples, remove the cores without dividing the fruit, and in their places put two or three cloves and a httle sugar. Place these in a buttered pie-dish, pour over them a light batter, and bake in a mode- rately hot oven. Time to bake, two hours. Probable cost, 9d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Apple Puddings (Alexandra's).— Pare, core, and quarter half a dozen finely- flavoured apples. Place them in a saucepan with a table-spoonful of water, the thin rind of half a lemon chopped small, and two table- spoonfuls of sugar. Simmer gently until reduced to a pulp; then ptir in, whib? hot, a piece of butter the size of an egg, and when cold add two eggs well beaten, a breakfast- cupful of finely-grated bread-crumbs, half aAPP APP ( 19 ) cupful of Tnilk- or cream, and a littlo grated nutmeg. Mix thoroughly, then pour into littlo cups previously oiled, and bake for twenty minutes in a moderate oven. Turn them out, and servo ^-ith sifted sugar. Probable cost, lOd. Apple Puddings (Mother's).—Roll out two pounds of crust of good suet or drip- ping {see Crust Suet for Puddings), and let it be thicker in the middle than at the edges. Fill it -wath layers consisting of four table- spoonfuls of sliced apples, one tea-spoonful of linely-shred suet, and one table-spoonful of currants. When full, fold it over, tie it in a well-floured cloth, boU, and ser\'e with sweet sauce. Time to boil, two hours. Sufficient for six persons. Probable cost. Is. Apple Puffs. — Stew some apples with lemon-juice and sugar until they become a dry jam. Make a light sweet crust; stamp it out in small rounds, with an inner round marked, but not cut quite through. Bake them in a quick oven, take a little of the pastry out of the middle, and put the apples in its place. Time to bake, a quarter of an hour. Sufficient, one for each person. Probable cost, Id. each. Apple Pupton.—Prepare one pint of apple marmalade {see Apple Marmalade), and mix with it the yolks of five eggs, a handful of bread-crumbs, and a piece of butter the size of an egg. Three ounces of stewed pears or chenies make an agreeable addition. Pour the mixture into a well-oiled mould, and bake it in a slow oven. Time to bake, an hour and a half. Sufficient for six persons. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Apple Holls.—Chop a few apples Tery fine, and sweeten them with sugar. Lay three or four table-spoonfuls of this in the middle of a circular or oval piece of paste, rolled out a quarter of an inch thick. Fold it in two, lengthwise ; unite the edges, and press or scal- lop them with the bowl of a tea-spoon. Lay the roUs on a baking-tin that has been pre- v-iously greased, and put it into a moderate oven. It is a good plan to use apple marma- lade instead of chopped apples, as then there is no fear of the fruit not being sufficiently cooked. Time to bake, half an hour. Suffi- i cient, one roll for two persons. Probable cost, 2d. each. Apple Boly-Poly. — Shred very finely six ounces of beef suet, and mix with one pound of flour. Make into a paste with half a pint of water. Poll it out about the third of an inch thick, and eight or ten inches wide. Spread over, rather thickly, three pounds of apples boiled to a pulp and sweetened and flavoured. Leave half an inch of the edges untouched with fruit. Roll round, fasten the ends securely, tie the pudding in a floured cloth, and boil. Serve with sweet sauce. Time to boil, one hour and a half. Probable cost. Is. Sufficient for five or six persons. Apple Sauce, Baked. —Apple sauce may bo made by placing the apples and the water in the oven in a closely-covered jar until they are reduced to a pulp, and then beating them as in the next recipe. Apple Sauce for Roast Goose.— Pare, core, and slice four or five large apples; place them in a saucepan with only just enough water to keep them from burning. Let them simmer gently, stirring frequently, over a slow fire, until they are reduced to pulp. Turn them into a bowl, and boat them weU with one tea- spoonful of sugar, the squeeze of a lemon, and a small piece of butter. Time, half an hour to- simmer. Sufficient for a small goose. Probable cost, 4d. Apple Snow.—Reduce half a dozen applea to a pulj), press them through a sieve, sweeten and flavour them. Take the whites of six eggs, whisk them for some minutes, and strew into them two table-spoonfuls of sifted sugar. Beat the pulp to a froth, then mix the two together. APPLE SJJOW. and w^hisk them until they look like stiff snow. Pile high in rough pieces on a glass dish, stick a sprig of myrtle in the middle, and garnish with small pieces of bright-coloured jeUy. Time to beat the snow, three-quarters of an. hour. Probable cost. Is. 4d. Sufficient for a medium-sized glass dish. Apple Snow with Sponge-Cake.— Put four or five slices of sponge-cake into a glass dish, and pour over them first two table- spoonfuls of sherr}', and then a cupful of cream. Place in a saucepan five or six finely-flavoured apples peeled and cored, with a little water^ sugar, grated lemon-rind, and lemon-juice. Reduce them to a pulp, press the pulp through, a sieve, and beat it with the whites of six eggs vmtil it is white and frothy. Heap it over the cakes as high as possible, and serve immediately. Time to beat, about an hour. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Apple Snowballs.—Take half a dozen large apples. Pare and core them without breaking them, and place in the hollow of each a spoonful of sugar, a piece of butter the size of a small nut, and either a pinch of powdered cinnamon, a little grated lemon- rind, some nutmeg grated, or a clove. Boil a cupful of rice with a little milk till it is half cooked. Put each apple into a separate cloth with a portion of rice sufficient to cover it allAPP APP ( 20 ) round. Spmid tho rice out, tie it firmly round the apple, pluiigo tlio bails into ijoiiiiig wutor, and lot tliom boil gontly till douo enough. Turn theui upon a dish, sift powdered white sugar thickly over them, and servo. If liked, a little sweet sauce can bo served with these j)uddings. Time to boil, throe-quarters of an Tiour or more, according to the quality of the apple. Probable cost, lOd. yuflicient for live or six persons. Apple Solid.—Melt a heaped table-spoon- ful of isinglass in a little water. Take half a pint of nicely-tiavoured apple-pulp, mix it well with ialf a pint of cream, then add the dissolved isinglass and sugar to sweeten it agreeably. Let it stand till nearly cold; add a glass of "wine or a table-spoonful of brandy, pour into a buttered mould, and keep it in a cool place xmtil the next day. Sufficient for five or six persons. Probable cost, 2s. 6d., exclusive of the brandy. Apple Soufl9.e.—Reduce half a dozen apples to a pulp, sweeten and flavour them nicely, and place them in the middle of a large dish. When cool, pour over them a good custard, made with half a pint of cream, the yolks of four eggs, sugar, and flavouring. "Whisk the whites to a solid froth, place it in rock-like pieces over the custard, and sift a •dessert-spoonful of white sugar over it. Put it in the oven till the icing is lightly browned, and serve cold. Probable cost, Is. lOd. Suf- £cient for four or five persons. Apple Soup, Germaa. — Peel half a dozen large fresh apples, cut out the cores, and boil them thoroughly with three pints of water, a thick slice of the crumb of bread ■finely grated, the rind and juice of half a lemon, and a quarter of an oxmce of powdered ■cinnamon. When cooked to a pulp, rub them through a sieve. Add two glasses of white wine, and sweeten to taste. Serve with toasted tread. Sufficient for four or five persons. Time, one hour. Probable cost, 7d., exclusive of the wine. Apple Sugar.—Boil a pint of apple-juice APPLE SCOAR. X,see Apple-Juice) wnth two pounds of loaf sugar, until it becomes brittle as soon as it is dropped in cold water. Then pour on a well-oiled dish, draw it out into twisted sticks : dry them, and keep them iu a tin box. Time to boil, about twenty minutes. Probable cost, L-s. inn- pound. Apple (Swiss) Pudding. — Butter a deep pio-dish. Pill it with alternate layers of apples sliced, sweetened, and tiavouied, and rusks wliich have been soaked in milk and beaten with a fork. Lot the rusks bo at tho top and tho bottom. Pour molted butter over the wliole, and bake until nicely brcnvned. Serve with sifted sugar. Time to bake, forty minutes. Probable cost. Is. Suffi- cient for four or five persons. Apple Tansy. — Pare and core six or eight largo apples, cut them into thin, round slices, and fry them in butter. Then beat up three eggs in a pint of cream, and pour them upon the apples. Time to fry the apples, five minutes. Probable cost. Is. 8d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Apple Tart or Cake.—Line a shallow pie-dish with good pufE paste. Make a mixture consisting of two pounds of apples pared, cored, and chopped, the peel of two lemons grated, a piece of butter the size of a large egg, four eggs well beaten, and a cupful of cream or new milk, and sugar according to taste. Mix these ingre- dients thoroughly. Put them on the paste, leaving a narrow rim all round. Blanch a few almonds, cut them into long strips, place them over the top of the apples, and bake in a quick oven. Care should be taken that the almonds are not too much baked. Time, three-quarters of an hour. Sufficient for three medium-sized dishes. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Apple Tart, Economical.—Take three- quai'ters of a pound of flour: mix with it a tea- spoonful of baking powder, and a httle salt; rub well in six ounces of clarified beef drip- ])ing, and make it into a paste with cold water. Roll it out two or three times. Line the edge of a pie-dish with a little paste about a quarter of an inch thick. Wet it all round to make the cover adhere. Pare, core, and quarter a dozen apples. Put them into the dish with a little moist sugar, a couple of cloves, and a table- spoonful of water. Cover it over with paste. Trim it nicely round the edges. Make a hole in the middle for the steam to escape, and bake in a good oven. Time to bake, one hour. Suf- ficient for six persons. Probable cost, lOd. Apple Tart,Open.—Line a shallow tart- dish with pufi: paste. Spread over it smoothly apple-pulp flavoured and sweetened, about half OPES TART. an inch in thickness. Cut strips of pastry, twist them, and lay them in cross-bars over the tart. Bake in a good oven. Time to bake, about half an hour. Sufficient for four or five persons. Probable cost, 81. for a small tart-(21 ) APP APP Apule Tart, Plain.—Line the edge of a tart-dish with good short crust, fill it with jipples pared, cored, and quartered, and a little ienion-juicc and sugar »tre^^•n OTcr. A little water may ho added if the apples are not juicy. Cover it with paste and bake in a, good oven. Time to hake, nearly an hour. Sufficient for live or six persons. "Probable cost, Is. Apple Tart, Rich—Line a tart-dish with putt" paste. Eub the apples well before paring them, then put the skins and cores into a saucepan, -svith the rind and juice of a lemon, one clove, some fine sugar, and enough water to cover them. While they are simmering, fill the dish with apples sliced. Pour the strained liquid over the apples, cover with the pufiE paste, and bake. Serve with cream or good custard. Time to bake, nearly an hour. Probable cost, Is. 4d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Apple Tart, Young. — Vei^- young apples, baked without paring make a nice tart, if they are very slowly cooked. Place the apples in the"pie-dish, Une the edges with puff paste, add plenty of sugar and a little lemon-juice, and bake in a moderate oven. Time to bake, one hour and a quarter. Sufficient for four or five persons. Probable cost, Is. Apple Trifle.—Take eight or nine fine apples. Stew them gently to a pulp, adding sugar according to taste, and flavouring with grated lemon-rind or cinnamon. When cold, place in a glass dish, and pour over them a good cold custard, made of the yolks of three eggs, one pint of milk, a little sugar, and a little sherry, simmered gently together and allowed to cool. Then take a pint of thick cream, warm it a little while over the fire with a little sugar, and another small glass of sherry. ^Vhen cold, whisk it into froth, and as the froth rises, place it on a sieve to drain, and after it has stood some time (for no whip is solid that has not stood some hours), place it on the apple and custard in a rough, rocky form, and orna- ment with pink sugar, &c. Time for the whipped cream to stand, twelve hours. Pro- bable cost, 2s. 6d., exclusive of the sherrj'. Sufficient for a moderate-sized dish. Apple-Water. — Rub well three large apples to make them perfectly clean. Slice them, pour a quart of boiling water on them : let it stand some time, then strain it, and boil it up with the juice of half a lemon and a little sugar. Time to boil, five or six minutes. Suf- ficient for a quart of the liquid. Probable cost, 4d. Apple-Water (another way).—Pare, core, and quarter five or six tart apples. Place them in a saucepan with a quart of water, the peel of half a lemon, four ounces of currants, and a little sugar. Let all simmer slowly together. Strain, cool, add a little white wine, and the apple-water is ready for use. This is a pleasant drink for hot weather. Time to simmer, one hour and a half. Sufficient for a pint and a half of the liquid. Probable cost, 6d. Apple-Water, Iced.—This is an agree- able beverage, which may be made as follows: Slice four large juicy apples, and pour over them a quart of boiling water. Cover closely the vessel which contains them, and when the liquid is cold, strain and sweeten it, and flavour with a little lemon-juice and the nnd of a lemon rubbed upon sugar. Ice it, if desired. It is ready for use as soon as it is cold. Pro- bable cost, 6d. Sufficient for a quart of liquid. Apple-Water, Iced (anotherway).—Boil six liu-ge juicy apples cored and quartered until they can be pulped through a sieve, when addi to the strained juice a quart of lemon-water,, and freeze in the usual way. The preserving- pan containing the apples should be placed fai- enough from the fire to prevent them from> being burnt or losing their nice colour. Timo to freeze the liquid, about twenty-five minutes. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for three pints. Apples (a la Cherbourg).—Choose firm but good boiling apples. Pare them, and cut them into bricks. Put a pound of sugar, the thickly-peeled rind of two lemons, and a little ginger, to every pound of apples, and cover them closely for some hours. Then place them in a preserving-pan, being careful not to break the apples, and put to them half a cupful of cider_ Let them boil until the apples look quite clear, then remove them one by one to a dish. When cold, place them in cross piles, and crown the whole with the lemon-peel. Pour the syrup round, and eat with Devonshire cream. Time to boil, about twenty minutes. Probable cost of apples cooked this way, lOd. per pound. APPLES fi LA MAEIE). Apples (a la Marie). — Pare some large,, firm apples, and scoop out the core without dividing them. FiU the cavity with cream or custard. Cover each apple with a little short crust, with a sort of knot or bow at the top,, and bake in a moderate oven. Serve with sifted sugar. Time to bake, half an hour. Sufficient, one for each person. Probable cost,. 2d. each. Apples (a la Portugaise).—Peel and core,, without dividing, half a dozen large baking* apples. Put into a stewpan a cupful of sugar- and a cupful of water, place it on the fire, and when the scum rises, put the apples in, and let them simmer very gently until they are tender throughout. Lay them in a glass dish, colour the syrup with a few drops of prepared cochineal, and pour it round them, and lay on the top of each apple a spoonful of bright-coloured jam. Time to boil the apples, twenty minutes or more. Probable cost, 9d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Apples, Baked.—Pare some good apples, and scoop out the cores. Put a little sugar and two cloves into each hollow, place them in », dish, not allowing them to touch each other,, strew powdered sugar over them, and a Hitle;APP ( 22 ) APP sweot wino with somo thiu lomon-riud iu it. Cover tho dish, and bako in a slow ovon. Tijiio to bako, thi-eo-quurtors of iin hoiu-. HuHiuiuiit, ono applo for each person. Probable cost. Id. each. Apples, Baked (anotlier way). —Take cijj:lit or uiuo good bakiiif^ apples: wipe them <.>arof idly, and place them iu a shallow eai-thoii- ware tUsh, half an incli apart. Put them in a gentle oven, cook them as slowly as possible, and do not allow them to bui-st. "When quite tender, set them aside to cool, and serve with sifted sugar. Time to bako, thi-oe-qiuirtors of an hour. Probable cost, 6d. Allow one for each person. Apples (Baked) for Children—Take ix large earthen jar, and fill it to \vithin three inches of tho top with well-wiped apples of any sort in the house. Neither peel them nor remove the stalks. Pour over them, so as to cover them completely, a mixture of treacle or brown sugar and water. If the apples are windfalls, you may allow a little extra sweeten- ing. Put with them some pieces of orange or lemon-peel, and a few cloves. Cover the jar ; leave it for three or four hours in a cool oven. If the oven is too hot, the liquid will boil over or evaporate, and the apples be dried up or burnt. Probable cost, Id. each. AUow one for each person. Apples, Buttered.—Pare and core with- out breaking a dozen golden pippins. Cut pieces of bread in rounds large enough for an apple to stand upon, and place them in a well- tut tered dish with an apple upon each. Fill the holes vdih butter and sugar. Bake them in a gentle oven until tender, then put them upon a hot dish with a little apricot jam on the top of each, and cover with sifted sugar. Time to bake, thirty minutes. Probable cost, lOd. Allow one for each person. Apples, Buttered (another method).— Place half a dozen good boiling apples, pared and cored without dividing, in a saucepan with a piece of butter the size of an egg. First put in the holes where the cores were a little sugar and a clove; stew them very gently, tui-ning them now and then, until they are quite tender. Cover the bottom of a glass dish with a layer of marmalade {See Apple Marmalade), lay the apples gently on it, put a little red currant jelly on the top of each one, and strew over them sifted sugar and powdered cinnamon. Time to stew, twenty-five minutes. Probable •cost, 8d. Sufficient for six persons. Apples, Compdte of.—Put half a pound of sugar into a pan with a pint of water and the rind and juice of two lemons. Let it re- main on the fire until tho sciim rises, then put in half a dozen large apples, pared, cored, and quartered. Let them simmer gently, leaving the lid off the saucepan, until the apples arc •clear. Time to boil, about twenty minutes. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for six persons. Apples, Compete of, Baked.—Pare a dozen golden pippins, or any other fiiiely- flavoured apples, and core them without break- ing them. Place fhem in a deep diah with a cupful of water, a pound of sugar, and a few drops of the easunce of vanilki oi' lemon. Cover COMPOTE OF Al'l'LKK. the dish, and place it in a moderate oven until tho apples are cooked through. Take them out, place them in a glass dish, and serve witli' custard or cream. Time to bake, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for si.x persons. Apples, Frosted.—Take enough apples —pippms will be best for the purpose—to fill a dessert-dish. Simmer them gently in a pan of cold water, and a small piece of alum, with a few vine-leaves between and over. When the skins can be easily pulled ofl: with the fingers remove them, and have ready some clarified butter in which to dip each one as it is peeled. Strew with crushed white sugar, and bake in a slow oven. The sugar, if carefully done, will sparkle as if frosted. When quite cold place them on a glass dish, piling them high. They should simmer about ten minutes. Probable cost, Is. 6d. per dozen. Apples in Pastry.—Peel and core two pounds of apples. Put them into a pint of cold water with two poimds of loaf sugar, a little cinnamon, the juice of a small lemon, and a little butter. Bod to a pulp. Well oil a pie-dish; line it with good pastry about half an inch thick, and bake it in a qtuck oven. Place the apple pulp inside, pour custard over it, and ornament with alternate dots of red jelly and white of egg. Lift the pastry out of the dish before serving. Time to bake the pastry, twenty minutes. Sufficient for five persons. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Apples, Miroton of.—Pare, core, and slice half a dozen finely-flavoured apples. Place them in a stewpan with very little water, two table-spoonfuls of sugar, and some powdered cin- namon, and let them simmer very gently until reduced to a pulp ; lay this smoothly in a dish. Then boil seven or eight lumps of sugar with a tea-cupful of water and the thinly-grated rind of two lemons: add a lump of butter the size of an egg, a spoonful of flour, another of brandy, the yolks of three eggs, and the white of one. Mi.x these well over the fire until quite smooth; pour over the apples; then whisk to a stiff froth the remaining whites of the eggs. When the custard is cold, pile the egg whites upon it, sift a dessert-spoonful of sugar on the top, and set tho dish in the oven till the surface is lightly browned. Suflicicnt for four or five persons. Probable cost, Is. 3d. Apples, Miroton of (another way).— Pare and core without dividing eight or nine finely-flavoured apples; cut them in mode- rately thin slices. Place in a saucepan a pieceAPP ( 23 ) APP of butter the size of an egg, let it melt, then add to it a quarter of a pound of sugar, a tea- spoonful of grated lemon-rind, and the juice of a lemon. Fry the apples gently m this, then an-ange them either round the inside of a dish, each sUce resting on the edge of another, or piled liigh in the nuddle. Time to fry, ten niinutes. Probable cost. Is. Sufficient for four or five persons. Apples, Preserved.—Pare, core, and chop small thi-ee pounds of good cooking apples. Have ready some thick boiling sjTup, made of three pounds of sugar and a pint of ■water. Throw in the apples, mth the chopped rind of three lemons and one ounce of whole ginger. Let it simmer gently until the apples look clear. Time to simmer, about half an hour. Probable cost, 2s. 3d. Sufficient for half a dozen jars of modei-ate size. Apples, Praserved, for winter use. —\Vhen it is desii-ed to preserve apples for use in winter, the fruit should not be allowed to remain too long on the trees, as there is a danger of its being blown down when it becomes quite ripe, and then it is not good for keeping. Apples, and indeed all fruit intended for keeping, should be hand-picked. The best way to remove them from the tree is to cut them ofE with a pair of strong pruning scissors, and to handle the fruit as lightly as possible. If practicable, the apples should be gathered in fine, di-y weather. They should then be wiped thoroughly dry, and everj'- one which appears in the slightest degree unsound rejected. In storing apples, they should be placed in a dark, diy place in single rows upon clean straw, with straw placed between each row, so that they are not allowed to touch each other; each layer inust be treated in a similar way. They should be looked over frequently, and any that may have become unsound removed. Apples may be also stored in boxes or jars, care being taken in packing the fruit, that it is not bruised or injured, and that every apple is quite sound. The air must be excluded from the cases as much as possible. Apples, Hed Hot.—I'ake a quantity of Keswick codlings, pared, cored, and cut in quarters. Stew them in a little water, but not 80 long as to allow them to become pulp. Sweeten amply with pounded loaf sugar, and flavour to taste, with caj'enne pepper; colour with cochineal. Apples (Red) with Jelly.—Take half a dozen very fine apples. Pare and core with- out dividing them, and put them in a saucepan with a pint of water, the rind of a lemon, and half a pound of loaf sugar. Place them on the fire and stew them very gently until the apples are quite tender, then lift them out and lay them in a glass dish. Boil the sugar and water with a little^ melted isinglass to make it set, then strain it, and add a few drops of prepared cochineal, and put it aside. When it is quite cold, lay it in rock-like pieces among the apples, and garnish the dish with sprigs of m>Ttle, the white of egg beaten to a froth, &c. &c. Time to simmer the apples, about three-quarters of an hour. This forma a very pretty supper dish. Sufficient for five or six persons. Probable cost, Is. Apples (Souflle of) in Rico. —Put into a saucepan a quart of new milk, a cupful of rice, the rind of half a lemon, a piece of butter the size of a nut, and sugar to taste. Let it simmer very gently until the milk is absorbed and the rice quite tender. Beat it well for four or five minutes ; brush the border of a good-sized disli with white of egg to make the rice adhere, then lay it round in a border about four inches wide. Take a breakfast-cup- ful of apple jam, and mix with it a piece of butter, melted, the size of an egg, and the weU-beaten yolks of three eggs. Stir this over the fire gently for a few minutes, then add the whites of four eggs whisked to a froth. Fill the dish, and bake in a good oven until the souffle rises. Serve immediately. Time to bake, about half an hour. Sufficient for six persons. Probable cost, Is. 8d. Apples, Stewed.—Apples are very nice pared, cored, shced, and gently stewed with a little white wine, sugar, and flavouring. They are quickly prepared, sei"ved with custard are a pleasant substitute for apple pie, and are an agreeable addition to the tea-table. They may be mixed with plums or other fruit. Time to stew, a quarter of an hour. Apples, Stewed for Dessert.—Wipe carefully six or eight large apples. Place them in a saucepan with half a pound of sugar, a few cloves, the rind and juice of a lemon, and a pint and a half of water. Let them simmer at the side of the fire until the apples are tender but not broken. Lift them out with a spoon, and lay them in a glass dish. Strain the juice, then let it boU a few minutes longer to reduce it. When almost cold, pour it over the apples. Invalids find apples stewed in thia way much more tender than if simply baked. Time to stew, varying with the quaht)'. Apples, Stewed in Halves.—Pare, core, and halve half a dozen good-sized baking apples. Place them in a saucepan vdth throe table-spoonfuls of sugar, a little water, the rind and juice of a lemon, and of an orange. Let them simmer gently untU they are soft. Sen'e with the syrup strained and poured over them. Time to simmer, half an hour. Apples Stewed in Whiskey. — Pare and core without dividing two pounds of sweet apples. Place them in a saucepan with two glasses of whiskey, a pound and a half of sugar, a little whole ginger, the rind and juice of two lemons, and an inch of cinnamon. Simmer very gently for two hours. Take the scum off as it rises, and turn the apples every now and then. When the apples are clear, take them off carefully, place them in the jars in which they are to be kept, and boil the liquid a few minutes, and pour it over them. This is a very nice dessert dish. If tied doyra closely, the fruit wiU keep twelve months. Probable cost, Is. 6d., exclusive of the whiskey. Apples and Almonds, Pudding of Stew to a pulp six or eight good baking apples,APR ( 24 ) APP Fwoeton and flavour them ; then lay thorn at the bottom of a well-butterod dish. Blanch and pound a quaiter of a pound of swoot almonds; add to thom four tablo-spoonfuls of sifted sugar, two tiiblo-spoonfuls of Hour, the grated rind and juico of a lemon, and four woll-boaton eggs. Spread the mixture over the apples, and bake in a good oven. Time to bake, about forty minutes. Sufficient for five or six persons. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Apples and Apricots, Charlotte of. —TaKo slices of the crumb of bread about a quarter of an inch thick, or, if preferred, a few Savoy biscuits. Have ready a plain round mould. Cut a roimd large enough for the bottom of the dish, and a number of fingers for the sides. Fry them in butter to a light brown, and spread them thinly on one side with apricot jam. Arrange them in the mould, the round at the bottom and the fin- gers at the sides, each piece overlapping another to prevent the fruit escaping. Fill the middle with apple marmalade, over which spread a thin layer of apricot jam. Cover the top closely with pieces of fried bread, place a dish over it, and bake in a quick oven. Serve hot. Time to bake, half an hour. Probable cost of a moderate-sized mould, Is. 6d. Suffi- cient for six persons. Apples and Apricots, Chartreuse of.—Put a quart of new milk into a stewpan with a cupful of rice, the rind of a lemon or a little cinnamon, two table-spoonfuls of sugar, and a piece of butter the size of a nut. Let it simmer gently until the milk is nearly all ab- sorbed ; then beat it well, and place a thick layer of it at the bottom of a weU-buttered pie- dish. Pare and core half a dozen good-sized apples, but neither divide them nor open them quite through. Fill the cavity in each with a little butter and sugar. Arrange them in the dish, and pour the rest of the rice round them, making the whole smooth. Put the dish into a moderate oven, and when sufficiently cooked, put a large spoonful of apricot jam at the top of each apple. Serve with sifted sugar. Time to bake, forty minutes. Sufficient for six persons. Probable cost. Is. 8d. Apples and Apricots, Compote of. —Place in a saucepan half a pound of sugar and half a pint of water. Let it boil for ten minutes to thicken, then put into it eight or nine golden pippins pared and cored without >>eing divided. Let them simmer very gently until they are clear and soft, but not broken. Lift them out carefully, and lay them in a deep glass dish; pour round them some good cold custard, and put on the top of each apple a spoonful of apricot jam. Probable cost. Is. 4d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Apples and Apricots, Croquettes of.—Take four table-spoonfuls of apple and two of apricot marmalade. Jlix with them the yolks of six eggs well beaten. Put these into a saucepan and simmer gently, stirring all the time. When the mixture is stiff, mould it into balls; dip them into the white of egg well beaten, and a few bread cnmibs. Fry in boiling oil or butter, and serve hot. Time to simmer the fruit and yolks, ten minut^js. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Sufficient for four persons. Apples and Pears, the Pips of.—men liniised in a mortar, these imjjart a deliciouh flavour to tarts. Apples and Bice.—Put eight or nine good-sized apples, pared, cored, and sliced, inttk a saucepan with a little cinnamon, three ounces of sugar, a small piece of butter, and sufficient water to prevent burning. Allow them to simmer gently until reduced to a pulp, which must be spread at the bottom of a well-oiled pie-dish. Boil half a cupful of well-washed rice in a pint of milk, with a little cinnamon and sugar, until the milk is absorbed and the rice quite soft; then mix in the yolks of two eggs well beaten, and boil two or three minutes longer, stirring quickly. Pour over the apples, smooth it evenly, and place the dish in a quick oven to brown. Serve with sifted sugar. Time to bake, a quarter of an hour. Sufficient for four or five persons. Probable cost, Is. Apples and Bice (another way).— Sinamer a cupful of rice in a quart of milk until the rice is tender and the milk absorbed. Add a heaped table-spoonful of sugar, and half a dozen drops of essence of almonds. Beat well for a few minutes, then place in the centre of a large dish a round jar, and pour the rice round it. Pare, core, and cut six or eight large apples into slices half an inch thick. Fry them in boiling oil or butter until they are cooked through, but do not allow them to break; stick them into the rice, and ornament it prettily with coloured jam, pink sugar, red jelly, or in any way that the fancy may suggest. Before serving, lift the jar from the centre of the dish, and fill the hole with a good custard {see Custard). This may be eaten either hot or cold. Time to boil the rice, forty minutes. Sufficient for six persons. Probable cost, 2s. Apples and Bice (another way).— Simmer a cupful of rice ydth a quart of milk, two table-spoonfuls of sugar, and the grated rind of half a lemon, until the rice is tender, and the mUk absorbed. Beat thoroughly for four or five minutes, and place it in the centre of a large dish, piled high in the form of a pyramid. Have ready one dozen apples stewed whole {see Apples, Stewed.) Arrange them round the rice, -with the syrup in which they were stewed coloured with a few drops of cochineal, and serve quite hot. Time to boil the rice, forty minutes. Probable cost. Is. 2d. Sufficient for six persons. Apples with Custard, Pancake of.— Pare, core, and slice four good-sized apples. Fry them in butter, and when they are brown on one side, turn them over, and pour over them a custard made of four eggs beaten, a cupful of cream or new milk, and a little cinnamon. Frj- to a light brown. Turn carefully, and serve with sifted sugar. Time to fry, ten minutes. Sufficient for three persona. Probable cost. Is., if made with milk. Apricot, The.—The apricot is a fruit of foreign origin, but many varieties are novrAPB APB ( 25 ) cultivated in this country, chiefly by grafting on plum-trees. When perfectly ripo it is a delicious table fruit, although it possesses quali- ties of a laxative tendency, and should not bo partaken of too freely by persons of delicate constitution on that account. A large variety of excellent made-dishes can bo formed of apricots, and for preserving purposes they are very valuable. The fruit should not be kept long after gathering, as it soon becomes insipid. The skin has a fine flavour, and if the apricots are prepared quickly after being plucked the perfume gives an agreeable piquancy to the dish. The finest apricot is the Moorpark, and the Breda is considered the best species culti- A-ated in the South of England. The fruit is in season in June and July. Apricot Brandy.—To every pound of fruit, take one pound of loaf sugar and a wine- glassful of water. Put the apricots, which must be sound, but not quite ripe, into a preserving- pan, with sufficient water to cover them; allow them to boil; then simmer gently till tender. Remove the skins. Clarify and boil the sugar, and pour it over the fruit. Let it remain twenty-four hours. Then put the apricots into glasses, and fill them up with syrup and brandy, half and half, and keep them well corked, and the tops of the corks securely sealed. They must be kept twelve months before using. They should be prepared in July. Time to simmer the apricots, about one hour. Apricot Charlotte.— Well butter a plain round mould. Cut pieces of stale bread—a round for the bottom and fingers for the sides. Fry them in butter, and arrange them in the dish, each piece overlapping another, so that the fruit may not escape. Pour in while hot a little apricot jam. In making the jam, allow half a poimd of sugar to everj' poimd of fruit, blanching two or three of the kernels and boiling them with it. Put pieces of buttered bread over the top, and bake in a moderate oven. Turn out carefully, and serve hot, with a little sifted sugar, or with a sauce made of the juice of a lemon stirred into a cup- ful of milk, and heated over the fire gentlj-, whisking all the time to bring it to a froth. If a richer pudding is desired, slices of sponge- cake may be substituted for the bread, and a custard served with it. Time to bake, half an hour. Sufficient for six persons. Apricot Charlotte (another way).— Butter an ordinary pic-dish. Put at the bottom a layer of bread-crumbs about a quarter of an inch thick, and then a layer of hot apri- cot marmalade, and repeat until the dish is full. Lay two or three pieces of butter on the top, and pour a cupful of cold water over the whole. Bake in a moderate oven. Time to bake, half an hour. Sufficient for six persons. Apricot Charlotte (another way).—Put a piece of the cnunb of bread about the size of a penny piece at the bottom of a pint basin; then put five or six fingers of bread round it, leaving a little distance between each finger. Put in some apricot or any other jam, hot, a spoonful at a time, to prevent the bread leaving its position. Cover the top entirely with pieces of bread in the shape of dice, press it do^^Ti with a plate and a weight, and leave it until cold. Turn it out on a glass dish, and pour a little custard round it. Time to stand, a few hours. Sufficient for five or six persons. Apricot Chips. — Put one pound of unpeeled apricots, cut into slices, into a thick syrup made of two pounds of sugar boiled with a pint of water until it is neai'ly candied. Let them stand in this a couple of hours; then put them into a preserving-pan, and make them as hot as possible without boiling. Take them from the fire and let them stand all night. Next day remove the chips from the syrup, spread them on plates, and dry them. Time to remain in the candy, twenty-four hours. Apricot Cream.—Take a dozen and a half ripe apricots: pare, stone, and halve them, and place them in a saucepan with a cupful of sugar dissolved in a cupful of water. Let them simmer gently until they are reduced to pulp, when they must be pressed through a fine sieve, and put aside to cool. BoU a pint and a half of new milk or cream with three table- spoonfuls of sugar. If these cannot be easily- obtained, Swiss milk may be substituted, and will answer very much the same purpose, but it must be remembered that whenever this is used, less sugar will be required. Let it cool after boiling, then put to it the yolks of eight eggs well beaten. Pour this into a jug, which, must be placed in a saucepan of boiling wateir and stirred one way until it thickens. Add one ounce and a half of isinglass which has been boiled in a little water, and when the- cream is cold, mix the apricot with it; pour the mixture into a weU-oiled mould, and keep it in a cool place. If apricots are out of season, apricot marmalade may be used instead. Time to thicken the cream, ten to fifteen nainutes. Probable cost, 4s. 6d, if made with milk, and with apricots at Id. each. Apricot Custard.—Line a pie-dish with a good short crust. Spread smoothly at the bottom a layer of apricot marmalade about an inch in thickness, and pour over it a custard made of a pint of new milk, three eggs, and a tea-spoonful of ground rice, a little sugar, and four drops of the essence of almonds. Bake in a quick oven. Time to bake, fifteen minutes. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for four or five- persons. Apricot Drink.—Peel a dozen apricots, and, after taking out the stones, pour on them a> quart of boiling water; allow them to stand for an hour, then strain off the clear liquid, and sweeten with a quarter of a pound of sugar- Probable cost. Is. 2d. Sufficient to make one- quart. Apricot Fritters.—Make a light batter • by mixing a quarter of a pound of flour and a pinch of salt with a cupful of water, stirring briskly until it is quite smooth ; then add a cupful of milk, and the whites of two eggs beaten to a froth, and put in at the last moment. Peel, halve, and stone a pound of apricots, draw them through the batter, and fry them in boiling oil or butter until they are nicely browned. Drain them from the butter.APR APR ( 26 ) pilo them high on a f(jldod na])kin, nnd servo with sifted sugiir. Time to fiy, about ton niinutoH. Probable cost, Is. 2d. iSullicient for four or five persona. Apricot Ice Cream.—Takes half a pound of apricot jam: mix with it a pint of cream, the jiiioo of a lemon, half a dozen almonds blanched and pounded, and two table-spoonfuls of noyeau. Mix and strain thoroughly. Freeze, and serve either in a mould or glasses. Time to freeze, about half an hour. Sufficient for a pint and a half. Probable cost, la. 6d. Apricot Ice Cream (another way).— Rub through a tine sieve half a pound of apricot jam with a pint of cream, the strained juice of a lemon, half a dozen bitter almonds pounded, and a glass of noyeau. Freeze twenty-five minutes. Or, take a dozen fine ripe apricots. Skin, stone, and pulp them through a sieve with a pint of hot cream and five or six ounces of the finest sifted sugar. Mould and freeze. The apricots may be scalded before they are pulped. Sufficient for six or more persons. Apricot Jam.—Pare three pounds of fresh sound apricots, halve them, and take out the stones. They should be ripe enough to halve ■n-ith the fingers. Place them in a deep dish, and strew over them one poimd of finely-sifted sugar. Let them remain for eight hours. Then place them with, the syi'up that will have oozed from them in a preser\'ing-pan; add a few of the kernels blanched and sliced, and another pound and a half of sugar. Let them boil very gently, and, when done, put them into jars and cover closely with gummed paper. Time to boil, half an hour. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. Apricot Jam, Green.—Take two pounds of yoimg apricots: place them in a jar, and pour a little boiling water over them. Let them remain in this for one minute; remove them and rub off the down. Place them in a preserving-pan with a cupful of thick syriip, and let them simmer very gently until the fruit is quite tender. Take them out and put them on an inverted sieve to drain. Make a syrup of two pounds of sugar and two cup- fuls of water. Put the apricots into this, and boil for twenty minutes; then put them into jars, and cover the fruit in each jar with a piece of paper dipped in oil, and cover with thin paper brushed with white of an egg or a little gum-water. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Apricot Jelly.—Pare, core, and halve about thirty ripe apricots. Blanch and pound a few of the kernels, mixing with them the juice of a lemon. Weigh the apricots, put them into a saucepan with an equal weight of sugar and the pounded kernels; let them boil gently, stirring continually, imtil they form a thick marmalade. Then pour it into a mould which has been filled with cold water. Let it remain until quite stiff, and turn out on a glass dish. This is an excellent dish for invalids. Apricot Jumbles.—Pour boiling water over the apricots and let them remain until they are soft, then remove the stones, and drj' the fruit in a pan over the fire, or in an oven. Then beat it into a stiff pasU) with an equal weiglit of sugar, roll it into lengths, tie the lengtlis into knots, and preserve for use in a diy pkco. If it is wislied, iham junibles may bo coloured rod Ijy the addition of a Httle cochineal to the fruit pulp. Apricot Marmalade. — Peel, quarter, and stone four pounds of ripe apricots, and put them into a preserving-pan, without either water or sugar, and let them boil gently, stir- ring continually, until the fruit is reduced to a pulp. Then add three pounds of sugar, and a few of the kernels blanched and halved, and boil once more. Put into jars, cover the fruit with an oiled paper, and fasten over each jar a piece of thin paper dipped in gum-water. When dry it will be tight and hard. Time to boil with the sugar, twenty minutes. Sufficient for four or five jars. Probable cost, 48. Apricot Marmalade (another way).— Take five pounds of ripe apricots—so ripe that they can be halved with the fingers: pare, stone, and slice them, and strew over them five poimds of sifted sugar. Let them remain twelve hours. Then boil sugar, juice, and fruit verA- gently, and when done, place in jars, which must be made perfectly air-tight. Time to boil, about three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, 5s. 6d. Sufficient for five or six one-pound jars. Apricot Paste.—Peel and stcne some apri- cots, and put them into a dish in a warm oven; cover the fruit ■with another dish, and let them remain until they are tender; then take them out and let them get cold. When this is done, take the same weight of powdered loaf sugar as there was fruit, and moisten it with a small quantity of water; boil it imtil ready to candy, and then mix the apricots with it; stir the syrup continually, and boil it \mtil it becomes of the consistency of marmalade. Make this paste into the shape of apricots, and put it in a warm place. When dry it wiU be found very transparent. Time to boil the sugar and fruit, till it is stiff and smooth. Apricot Paste (another way).—Spread apricot marmalade on shallow tins, and dry it gradually in a slow oven. When nearly dry, cut it into slips or ornamental shapes. Apricot Paste (another way).—Peel the apricots, boil them gently xmtil tender; drain them, and beat them into a pulp. Boil the pulp with half its weight of crushed loaf sugar, until it becomes thick and clear. Take the same quantity of sugar, boil it with a little water until ready to candy, and mix it with the pulp, but take care not to allow it to boil. Pour tliis paste into jars, and place them in a warm oven until it candies; then take out the candied pulp and dry it on plates. Time to boU, about half an hour. Apricot Paste, Green. —Scald the apricots, beat them up, and strain the soft pulp. ]Mix it with sjTup containing twice the weight of the fruit in loaf sugar, and let it boil for a short time; then remove it from the fire, and when cold pour it into moulds. Boil until it is stifi. Apricot Pie.—Pare, stone, and halve tlie apricots. Place them in a pie-dish, piling themAPR APB ( 27 ) high in the middle. Strew over them a little sifted sugar, and a few of the kernels blanched and chopped small. Cover them with a good light crust, and buko in a moderate oven. Tuao to bake, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, 2s. for a moderate-sized dish. Sufficient for four or live persons. Apricot Preserve.—Peel and stone some moderalclj- lipo apricots; put them at night in a deep jar between layers of crushed loaf sugar. Next morning pour over them some white cun-ant juice, or white wine, and place the jar in a largo saucepan of water, which must be kept boUing until the sugar is completely dissolved; then take the saucepan off the fire and let it get cold. Place the fruit and syrup in a preserving-pan, and boil very gently until the fruit is tender. AUow half a pint of juice and a poimd and a half of sugar to every pound of fruit. Time to simmer, forty minutes. Apricot Pudding.—Pour a pint of new milk (boiling) over six table-spoonfuls of bread- crumbs. Let them stand until cold. Then add the well-beaten yolks of three eggs, two table- spoonfuls of sherry, a slight flavouring of the essence of almonds, and four ounces of sifted sugar. Beat them thoroughly, then add to them twelve apricots which have been pared, stoned, and simmered gently until they have been reduced to a pulp. Lastly, whisk the whites of two eggs to a firm froth, and add them to the rest. Place the whole in a pie-dish which has been lined with good puff paste, and bake in a quick oven. Time to bake, half an hour. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for four or five persons. Apricot Pudding, Baked. — Peel, stone, and halve a dozen fresh ripe apricots: place them in a saucepan with a glassful of white wine, and let them simmer very gently for a quarter of an hour. Take them from the fire, and add four of the kernels blanched and pounded, and two table-spoonfuls of sifted sugar. Beat them with a fork; then mix with them four sponge-cates crumbled, a break- fast-cupful of new mUk, and three eggs well beaten. Pour the mixture into a well-oiled mould, and bake immediately. This pudding may be eaten hot or cold. If cold, turn it out into a glass dish, and pour round it a good custard. Time to bake, forty minutes. Suffi- cient for six persons. Probable cast, Is. lOd., with apricots, Id. each. Apricot Ratafia.—Cover some sliced apricots with white winp, and simmer them gently until they are reduced to a pulp; then pour them into an earthen jar. Add to them a cupful of brandy, and a quarter of a pound of sugar to each quart of liquid. Put in -with them three or four of the kernels of the fruit broken in pieces, with a little mace, cloves, and cinnamon. Let these materials macerate in the ratafia for a fortnight; then strain the liquid, and preserve it in well-closed vessels. Time to simmer the apricots, half an hour. Apricot Souflae.—Pare, stone, and slice one dozen large ripe apricots. Place them in a saucepan with three table-spoonfuls of sifted sugar and three of water. Let them simmer gently until reduced to a pulp, then mix in very smoothly three table-spoonfuls of ground rice ORNAMENTAL SOUFFLi: DISH. or flour, a piece of butter the size of a walnut, and a breakfast-cupful of cream or new milk. When the liquid boils poux it out and add to it the yolks of six eggs. Well oil the souffle- PLAIN SOUFFL^ DISH. tin, and at the last moment add the whites of the eggs beaten to a firm froth. Bake in a quick oven, and let the souffle be served directly it is taken out, or it wUl be spoilt both in taste and appearance. Time to bake, half an hour. Pro- bable cost, 2s., if made with milk ; apricots, Id. each. Sufficient for a moderate-sized tin. Apricot Syrup.—Takeoff the skins from some ripe apricots, stone them, and cut them into small pieces; place them in a dish, and strew over them a thin layer of sifted sugar. Let them remain a couple of hours; place them in a saucepan ^vith a little water, and let them simmer gently until they are soft. Strain the juice, and add to it sugar in the proportion of a poimd to a pint. Boil it gently, skimming thoroughly all the time; let it get cold, then bottle it; it will be found useful to flavour custards, cream ices, &c. The fruit in the jelly-bag must not be squeezed. After the juice has run from it, it will make very nice tartlets, with the addition of a little sugar. Time to boil with the sugar, ten or twelve minutes, by which time it will become thick and clear. Probable cost. Is. 6d. per pint. Apricot Tart, Green.—Take as many green apricots as may be requii-ed for the dish: put them into a saucepan with a little water, to keep them from burning, and half their weight in sugar. When they are soft through, put them, with the syrup, into a pie-dish which has been lined at the edges with good puff paste. Pile them high in the middle, cover, and bake in a good oven. The dish wiU be much im- proved in appearance if it is iced before sending to the table. To do this, beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, lay on the tart, and shake sifted loaf sugar over it; then put it into a moderate oven for five minutes to set. ItAPR ( 28 ) APB must not bo allowed to colour. When apri- cots ciinnot 1)0 obtained, young apples taken from the tree before the cores are formed are an excellent substitute. Time to bake, half an horn-. IVobable cost, 1b. 3d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Apricot Water Ice.—Skin, divide, and stone, SIX largo ripe aju-icots. Blanch, pound, and add the kernels to the fruit, with the juice of two lemons, half a pint of water, and two of clarified sugar. Then pass all through a fine sieve, and again strain before freezing. Time, twenty-five minutes to freeze. Probable cost of apricots. Id. each. Apricot Wine.—Boil twelve pounds of sliced ripe apricots and a pound of sugar in three gallons of water for half an hour, and strain the liquor into a pan. Put with them a few of the kernels of the fruit, mix all together, and having covered the vessel, leave the liquid to cool. Mix one table-spoonful of fresh brewer's yeast with it, and leave it for three or four days to ferment. Then pour off the clear liquid into a cask, which must be scrupulously clean, and let it remain until the fermentation is ended. A pint of Ehenish or other white wine should then be added, and the cask closed for six months. At the end of that time it should be decanted into bottles, and kept for a year longer before being used. Time to boil, half an hour; ferment, three or four days. Pro- bable cost, 38. a gallon. Sufficient to make three gallons. Apricots (au Riz).—Put a cupful of rice in a saucepan with a quart of millc, a piece of butter the size of a nut, two table-spoonfuls of sugar, and the rind of a lemon. Let all simmer gently, and when the milk is absorbed and the rice tender, add to it four well-beaten eggs. Boil up again, stirring all the time, to cook the eggs. Remove the lemon-rind. Put a gallipot in the middle of a large glass dish, and heap the rice round it; smooth it with the back of a spoon, and let'it slope down to the edges of the dish. When it is cold, remove the gallipot, and place the apricots in the hollow, piling them pjrramidicaUy. They must be prepared thus : Take two dozen of the fresh fruit, sound and ripe : pare, stone, and slice them. Make a syrup of a breakfast-cupful of sugar and the juice of two lemons. When it is boiling, throw in the slices, and cook them quickly. A few of the kernels may be blanched and chopped and strewed over the fruit. Place a layer of apricot marmalade mixed with the syrup at the bottom of the hollow, and pile the stewed fruit on that. Time to stew the shces, five minutes. Pro- bable cost, 38. 6d. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Apricots, Comp6te of.—Take one dozen large sound apricots; halve them, remove the stones, and blanch the kernels. Put three- quarters of a pound of loaf sugar into an enamelled stewpan with a pint and a half of water. Let it boil; then put in the apricots, and let them simmer very gently for a few minutes. Take them out, drain them, and ar- range them in a dish. When the syrup is cold, poui- it over the fruit. Put half a kernel upon each piece of apricot. Probable cost, Is. 3d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Apricots, Compote of (another way). —Pare and scald eiglit or nine apricots ; halve and stone them. Put into a saucepan half a pound of pounAed loaf sugar and half a pint of water. When the scum risc-H, put in the apricots, sliced, with tliree of the kemek. When done, put them in a dish, and pour th« syrup round them. Time to simmer, twenty minutes. Probable cost. Is. Sufficient, one apricot for each person. Apricots, Compote of Green.— Remove, by rubbiug with a dry cloth, the down from a pound of young green apricots. Put into a saucepan three-quarters of a pint of water and half a pound of sugar ; let it boil for ten minutes or more, being careful to remove the scirni as it rises. Put in the apricots; simmer them very gently. Lift them out one by one with a spoon to prevent them breaking, and place in a glass dish. When the syrup is cool, pour it roimd them. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Apricots, Plane of.—Make a good short crust with one pound of flour, six otinces of butter, a table-spoonful of sugar, the yolk of an egg, and enough milk to make the pastry of a proper consistence. Well butter a plain oval mould, and line it with the crust about half an inch in thickness, pressing it well in to take the shape. Let it rise above the mould about half an inch, and pinch it at regular distances to ornament it. Fill it with flour, and bake it in a good oven for about half an hour. Then empty out the flour, take the case from the mould, being very careful not to break it, and put it back in the oven for another quarter of an hour. It is now ready for the apricots, which should be pared, stoned, and halved, then simmered gently in a syrup made of half a pound of sugar boiled in half a pint of water,, until they are quite tender but not broken. Lift them out, arrange them neatly ia the crust; boil the syrup imtil it is reduced to a jelly, and pour it over the fruit. Serve either hot or cold. Probable cost, 3s. Sufficient for three or four persons. Apricots, Frosted.—Choose twelve sound apricots: put them into a saucepan with cold water to cover them and a piece of alum the size of a nut. Let them stew a few minutes very gently, imtil the skin can be drawn ofl^. Remove the skin, dip the apricots in clarified butter, and strew thickly over them sugar coarsely crushed. Put them into a moderate oven until the sugar sparkles; but take care that the fruit is not broken. Pile them on a dish, and serve cold. Time to bake, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost. Is. 3d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Apricots in White Jelly.—Take half a dozen apricots: scald them and draw off the skin; then place them in a saucepan with a cupful of water and half a poimd of sugar boiled to a syrup; let them simmer gently until they are tender, but not broken; place them in a mould, which must be filled with whit«( 29 ) APR APR currant jelly. If there is any doubt about the stiffness, a little isinglass might be added. When quite linn, it may be turned out. Time CO sinmier the apricots, twenty minutes. Pro- t>able cost, 2s. Half a dozen apncots sufficient for a pint moidd. Apricots Preserved in Jelly.—Take two pounds of sound and not over-ripe apricots, and four of powdered loaf sugar : pour a little boiling water upon the fruit; then draw off the skin, and take out the stones by making a slit with a knife at one end, and pushing them gently out. Strew half of the sugar upon a dish, place the fruit upon it, and cover with the rest. Let it remain thus for two or three hours, then put the whole carefully into a preserving- pan ; let it boil very gently until the apricots are tender, turning them frequently to prevent them burning, and taking off the scum as it rises. Put the apricots into the glasses in which they are to be kept, then add to the sjTup half a pint of apple-juice, and half a pound of sugar; let it boil imtil it will jelly, which it should do in a few minutes, then pour it over the fruit. Apricots, To Bottle (for Tarts in "Winter time).—Choose some ripe apricots: pare, stone, and quarter them. Lay them on a •dish with powdered sugar strewn over them in the proportion of two ounces of sugar to everj' pound of fruit. Let them remain thus for two or ■three hours; then put them into wide-mouthed ■bottles, cover them and place them up to their jiecks in a saucepan of cold water. Keep them there until the water boUs. Cork the bottles and wax them securely. Time to boU, haJf ■an hour. Apricots, To Candy.—Slit the fruit on one side and take out the stone, dry them separately on a dish, and cover them with crushed lump sugar. Bake them in a hot oven, and then dry them in a warm place for a few •days. Apricots, To Dry (a quick and easy method).—Pare, stone, and halve the fruit, then place it in a deep stone jar. Put the jar in a saucepan of boiling water over a good fire, and keep boiling until the fruit is quite tender. Lay the apricots on a sieve, that the juice may drain away, and afterwards put them on plates. Strew sifted sugar thickly •over them, and put them in a warm place to dr\', before storing them away. Time to boil the fruit, about half an hour. Apricots, To Dry.—The apricots should be taken before they are quite ripe. Scald them, draw off the skin, divide and stone them. Place them in a dish, with their weight in sugar strewn over them, and let them remain twenty- four hours. Then put the whole into a pre- ser\'ing-pan, and simmer them veiy gently until they are clear. They must remain in the syrup lor two days. It must then bo drained from them, boiled, and poured over them, and they must remain in it two days more. It must then be drawn off, and used for flavouring or other purposes, and the apricots dusted with sugar aad placed a little apart from each other in a cool oven to dry. They keep best in a tin box with writing-paper between the layers. The apricot syrup mixed with an equal quantity of brandy also makes an agreeable liquor. Time to make, six days. Apricots, To Dry (another way).—Wipe gently, stone, and halve some fine apricots, which must be sound and not very ripe. Weigh them, place them in a single layer in a large dish, strew their weight in sifted white sugar thickly over them, and leave them until the following day. Then put them carefully into a preserving-pan over a moderate fire; let them heat very gradually until tender. Take them out gently, so as not to break them, and let them stand in the syrup for two days, after which, take them out of it singly, place them on dishes to dry. They must be kept in a drj' place. Apricots, To Dry (French method).— Take some sound but not over-ripe apricots: wipe them and weigh them ; make a hole with a knife at one end, and remove the stone with- out diAading the fruit. Put them into cold water, and simmer until thej' are quite tender. Take equal quantities, by weight, of sugar and fruit, and boil it in water, allowing a cupful to each poimd. When the scum rises, put in the apricots, and let them remain until they look quite clear; then put all into a jar, and let it remain imtO. the next day, when the syrup must be drained off, boiled for five or ten minutes, and poured again over the fruit, to remain another twenty-four hours. This pro- cess must be repeated three times. Then the liquor must be di-awn from them for the last time, and the apricots placed separately on dishes, and dried very slowly. Time to make, five days. Apricots, To Preserve (Whole or in Halves).—Take four pounds of fine apricots which are not fully ripe. Let them be gathered, if possible, in the morning, when the sun is on them, as the flavour is then much the best; make a small slit with a layf e at the end where the stalk has been, and push the stone gently out. If they are to be preserved in halves, the stone can be easily removed. Throw them into cold water, and simmer them gently until they feel soft when a pin is pushed through them. Take them out and put them in fresh cold -water. Put into a preserving-pan one quart of water and four pounds of loaf sugar. Put it on a moderate fire, and stir it until the sugar is dissolved. When it boils, put in a table- spoonful of cold water; when it boUs up again, take it off the fire and let it stand for a few minutes to settle. Take off the scum, and boil it again. Drain the fruit, and put it into the syrup; let it boU up four or five times, eA'eiy time taking it off to cool, when it must be well skimmed. The last time, let it remain until the fruit is quite clear, which will be in about fifteen minutes. Just before it is taken from the fire, blanch and slice a few of the kernels and add them to it; or they may be blanched, and put into a little spirit until the jars are ready to be tied up, and then a few stre\\-n at the top of each. This plan may be followed in preserving whole many of the better kinds ofARB APR (30) fruit—such as poaches, nectarinos, greengages, pears, &c. Apricots with Bavarian Blanc- mange.—Put an ounce of either superior gelatine dissolved or clarified isinglass {see Isinglass, to clarify) with a pint of cream or now milk. Squeeze the Juice of a lemon over a tea-cupful of apricot jam, and mix with it very gradually four table-spoonfuls of milk. Btir all together for a few minutes; strain through coarse muslin, and when nearly cold, put it into a mould which has been previously soaked in water. Let it stand twelve hours in a cool place. Time to boil tho mixture, five minutes. Apricots with Bice.—Simmer very gently a small tea-cupful of rice with a quart of milk. When the milk is absorbed and tho rice thoroughly cooked, put it into a bowl and beat it, for five or ten minutes, with two table- spoonfuls of sugar and six drops of almond flavouring. Press it into a moiild which has been previously soaked in water, and when it is quite cold turn it into a glass dish, and pour round it apricots stewed in halves in a syrup made of a pound of sugar, the juice of three lemons, and three or four spoonfuls of water. A few drops of prepared cochineal put into tho syrup will improve the appearance of the dish. Apples or pears may be used instead of apricots. Time to boil the rice, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for six persons. Arabian Coffee.—All travellers agree in their account of the delicacy and delicious flavour of the coffee used in the East. It is prepared thus : Pound thoroughly in a mortar some coffee-berries that have been freshly and qxuckly roasted. Pass them through a fine sieve two or three times, until at last you have a brown flour. Mix two tea-spoonfuls of this floiir, and a small piece of cinnamon, with two cupf uls of water. Boil it gently, then draw it back for a moment, and repeat this several times, untU a cream rises to the top; then add half a cupful more boiling water, and it is ready to serve. Neither sugar nor milk are required. Arabian Pilau.—Cut into pieces, about two inches long, four pounds of the neck or breast of mutton, with sufficient stock for it to swim in. Add salt, pepper, and a blade of mace, and sunmer it gently for nearly two hours. Have ready a pound of Patna rice which has been boiled as if for cuiTy—that is, put into cold water and boiled up; then drained and cold water again added; boiled and drained once more; then put by the side of the fire with a piece of butter in it the size of an egg, and allowed to remain until tender. The pan must be shaken occasionally to prevent it sticking. Take out the pieces of meat, fry them lightly in butter, and place them among the rice. Garnish with the yolks of eggs boiled hard, and sliced fried onion, or pieces of bacon. Suffi- cient for six persons. Probable cost, 43. Aromatic Cordial.—Put two ounces of ground ginger, half an ounce of pepper, an ounce of cardamom seeds, half an ounce of bruised cinnamon, half an ounce of mace, and half an ounce of orange-peel, in a quart of gwd whiskey. Let it stand for a icjrtniglil, tiglitiy corked; then strain and bottle it. It in good to take two or three tea-spoonfuls in wine or water when suffering from indigestion or debility. Aromatic Seasoning of Herbs and Spices.—Take ; an ounce aud a littli <jf thyme, one ounce of bay-leaves, an ounce of savoury, an ounce of basil, and an ounce and a lialf of marjoram. Dry them thoroughly, pick the leaves. Pound in a mortar a quarter of an oimce of cayenne pepper, with an ounce of peppercorns, an ounce of cloves, a clove of garlic, the thinly-peeled rind of a lemon, half an ounce of mace, and one nutmeg grated. Mix all well together, pass them through a sieve, and keep stored in well-corked bottles. Time to prepare, one hour and a half. Probable cost. Is. 6d. for a pint bottle. Aromatic Wine.—Jlix eighteen grains of the bisulphate of quinine and fifteen grains of citric acid in a bottle of orange wine. Shake it well, then put it aside to settle. Arroba Pudding.—Put a pint and a half of milk into a saucepan, with two table-spoon- fuls of ground rice, a pinch of salt, and a little cinnamon; stir it over the fire till it boils, let it cool, and then add four eggs well beaten. Poiir the mixture into a well-oiled mould, and steam it, being careful to cover the top of the mould. Boil it for two hours; then take it out, and put it into the oven for a quarter of an hour to make it firm, but do not let it colour. Ttim it out, and serve with it a sauce made of a cupful of nulk, the yolk of an egg, and a little sugar, stirred over the fire tiU it thickens, and then two or three spoonfuls of sherry or brandy added. Probable cost, without the sauce, 9d. Sufficient for six persons. Arrowroot Biscuits.—Beat a quarter of a poimd of butter to a cream: add gradually three well-beaten eggs, a quarter of a pound of flour, a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar, and three ounces of arrowroot, poimded to crush the lumps. Mix aU smoothly together. Have ready a weU-oiled tin, and drop from a spoon in pieces about the size of a florin. Bake in a slow oven. Time to bake, a quarter of an hour. Sufficient for two dozen biscuits. Probable cost, lOd. Arrowroot Blancmange. — Mix two oimces of arrowroot with a cupful of water, taking care to make it quite smooth. Put a pint and a half of milk into a saucepan with the rind of a lemon and a table-spoonful of sugar, and when it boils, strain it, and pour it over the arrowroot. Set it on the fire to thicken, and before pouring into the mould, which must be well oiled, add a Uttlo brandy. It is better to oil the mould than to soak it in water, as it gives tho blancmange a glistening appearance. Garnish with bright red jelly or jam. Time, half an hour. Sufficient for six persons. Probable cost. 6d., without the jam and brandy.ARR ( 81 ) Arrowroot Cream—Mix a table-spoon- ful of arrowroot with two of cold water. Boil a pint and a half of new milk with a bay- leaf, or the thin rind of a lemon, and a dessert-spoonful of sugar. Strain it, and pour it, boiling, upon the arrowroot; stir it fre- quently till it is cold, then pour it into a glass dish. This may be served with tarts or stewed fruits. Time to boil, ten minutes. Probable cost, 6d. for a pint and a half of cream. Arrowroot Drops—Put into a well- oiled saucepan a large cupful of arrowroot which has been previously rolled to crush the lumps, a piece of butter the size of an egg, a table-spoonfnl of pounded sugar, a tea-spoonful of finely-chopped lemon-peel, and a well-beaten egg, and boil them together, stirring briskly all the time imtil they are light and thick. Then drop them on a weU-buttered tin in pieces about the size of a shilling, and bake in a good oven. They should look white and rather rough. Time to bake, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost. Is. Arrowroot Fritters.—Put a pint of •new milk and a table-spoonful of sugar into a saucepan with three or four laurel-leaves. When it boils, stir into it a quarter of a pound of arrowroot which has been smoothly mixed with a little cold water; then add the beaten yolks of four eggs. Stir it constantly until it is thick and smooth; then pour it into a well- oiled pie-dish, and bake in a good oven. AUow the mixture to cool; then stamp it out in rounds; dip them in egg and bread-crumbs; fry them in hot lard, and heap them in a dish. Serve with jam sauce. Time, twenty minutes to boil; ten minutes to bake; five minutes to fry. SujSicient for four or five persons. Probable cost, Is., without the jam. Arrowroot Jelly.—Soak the thin rind of a lemon and a table-spoonful of sifted sugar in a cupful of cold water. Let it remain four hours; then strain the liquid, and mix it with three table-spoonfuls of arrowroot, a table- spoonful of brandy, the juice of four lemons, and three drops of almond flavouring. Put it into a saucepan, and stir it. until it is thick. Put it into a damp mould, or let it get cold; then 8er\'e it in glasses. Time to boU, five minutes. Probable cost, 8d., exclusive of the brandy. Sufficient for a haK-pint mould. Arrowroot Jelly (another way).—Mix two table-spoonfuls of arro\sToot with a little water, and pour upon the paste a pint of boUing water and white wine sweetened and flavoured with almond or lemon flavouring. Stir it weU; then put it again on the fire^ still continuing to stir it until it is quite thick. Pour it into a mould which has been soaked in cold water; > turn it out the next day, and serve it with cream-custard or jam. Time to boU with the arrowroot, three or four minutes. Sufficient for a pint mould. Probable cost, 4d., without the wine and cream, &c. Arrowroot, Nourishing, fok Invalids ANT) Sicx Children.—Boil half an ounce of hartshorn shavings and a little lemon-rind in a pint of water for fifteen minutes; strain, and pour the liquid upon two dessert-spoonfuls of arrowroot which has been previously mixed with a little cold water. Stir briskly, and boil for a few minutes; then add a tea-spoonful of sugar and a glass of wine. Probable cost, 3d. per pint, without the wine. Sufficient for one person. Time to boil the shavings, a quarter of an hour. Arrowroot Potato Flour.—Peel some fine mealy potatoes, and grate them into a pan filled with cold water. Let it settle, then strain through a fine sieve; pour on fi-esh water, stir it round, and let it settle again. Repeat this five or six times, until the pow-der is quite white and the water clear. Spread the sedi- ment upon a dish, and put it into a cool oven to dry, stirring it frequently. Sift it, and put it into bottles, which must bo kept well corked. Time, several hours. Arrowroot Pudding.—Mix two dessert- spoonfuls of arrowroot with half a cupful of milk. Place a pint and a half of milk in a saucepan with the grated rind of half a lemon and a table-spoonful of sugar. Boil it, and pour it upon the arrowroot. Stir it well, and when cool, add three well-beaten eggs and a piece of butter the size of a walnut. Line the edges of a well-buttered pie-dish with puflt paste, spread a layer of preserved fruit at the bottom, then pour in the mixture, and bake in a good oven. Time to bake, half an hour. Sufficient for five or six persons. Probable cost, Is. Arrowroot Pudding, Plain.—5Iix two table-spoonfuls of arrowroot with a little water. Put into a saucepan a pint and a half of milk, with a little grated nutmeg and a table- spoonful of sugar. "When it boils, pour it upon the arrowroot, stirring it well, and add a piece of butter the size of a walnut. Pour it into a well-buttered pie-dish, and bake in a moderate oven for an hour or more. This is a wholesome pudding for the nursery. Sufficient for five or six persons. Probable cost, 6d. Arrowroot Pudding, Steamed.— Mix two table-spoonfuls of arrowroot with a cupful of milt. Flavour a pint and a half of milk with cinnamon, lemon, orange, almonds, or whatever may be preferred ; put it on the fire, and when it boils, pour it upon the arrowroot. Stir well, and when it is cool add three well- beaten eggs, a table-spoonful of sugar, and the same of brandy. Put it into a well-buttered mould, cover it over, and steam it. When ready to serve, turn out, and put jam round it in the dish. Time to steam, one hour and a haH. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for six persons. Arrowroot Sauce.—^lix a dessert-spoon- ful of arrowroot with half a pint of water. Put it into a saucepan and let it boU gently, stirring all the time. Add two table-spoonfuls of sugar, and any flavouring that may be pre- ferred. A table-spoonful of brandy wiU be an improvement. This sauce is suitable for rice, bread, or plum pudding. Time, ten to fifteen minutes. Probable cost, 4d. Sufficient for five or six persons.ARR ART Arrowroot Sauce. Clear,—liub tho thin rind of a lemon on large lumps of sugar, and put them in a saucepan with a break- fast-cupful of raisin or gooseberry wine. Mix a heaped tea-spoonful of arrowroot with a little water, stir it gradually into the wine, and pour it round tho pudding. Time to boil, ton minutes. Sufficient for four or live persons. Probable coat, 6d. Arrowroot SoufBle.—Mix fonr table- spoonfuls of arrowroot with a cupful of milk. Stir it gradually into a pint of boiling milk, and add two table-spoonfuls of sugar on which the rind of a lemon has been rubbed. Lot it boil for a quarter of an hour, stin-ing all the time. Take it from the fire and let it cool, then stir in tho well-beaton yolks of six eggs. Well oil a plain tin mould, and when everything is ready, whisk the whites to a solid froth, and add them to the rest. Fill the tin three-parts full, and bake for twenty minutes in a good oven. Serve imme- diately. Sufficient for five or six persons. Probable cost, Is. 3d. Arrowroot, To Prepare. —Mix a ■dessert-spoonful of arrowroot with a little cold water. Pour on it, verj'- gradually, half a pint of water boiled with a little lemon-rind; stir it briskly, and boil for a few minutes. Sweeten it, and add a little sherry or port wine. For infants, a drop of cinnamon-water, or of the essence of caraway-seeds, may be put in. Fresh milk may be substituted for the water, then the wine may be omitted. If there is any fear that the milk is in the slightest degree adulterated, it will be much better to use pre- served milk, if for invalids. In that case no sugar wiU be required. Probable cost, 2d. per pint without the wine. Sufficient for one person. Arrowroot to thicken Sauces.— Arrowroot may be used to thicken sauces for those who object to butter, as invalids often do. Mix a dessert-spoonful of arrowroot smoothly with a little cold water, and stir it into a pint of the boiling liquid. Time to boil, four or five minutes. Probable cost, Id. Sufficient for one pint of sauce. Arrowroot Water.—A Drink for In- valids.—Boil the thinly-peeled rind of a small lemon in a quart of water. Pour it, when boiling, ■over a table-spoonful of arrowroot which has been mixed with two table-spoonfuls of -wine or "brandy, if these are allowed, if not, with a little cold water ; stir it well, sweeten it slightly, and let it boil again two or three minutes. A little lemon-juice is an improvement. Suffi- cient to make a quart of the liquid. Probable cost, without the wine, 3d. Artichoke Bottoms.—Take a few arti- choke bottoms, dried. Soak them, and boil thorn in sufficient clear stock to cover them. When tender, which may bo ascertained by sticking a fork into them, take them out, let them drain, then put a little forcemeat into each one, and serve them in a napkin. Time to boil, if young, three-quarters of an hour; if ■fully grown, an hour and a half. Sufficient, one for each porson. Probable cost, 3d. each. Artichoke Bottoms, To Pickle.— Parboil the artichokes; pull out the leaves, and do not remove the cliuko. Allow them to cool; put them into picklo-bottles. Boil sufli- ciont vinegar to fill up tlie bottles, adding to every quart of vinegar a dosaert-spounful of salt, a small tea-spoonful of wliite pepper, and a blade of mace. Simmer it for twenty nunutes. Put it aside, and when cold pour it into tho bottles, which nmst be corked closely. Pro- bable cost. Is. for a pint bottle. Artichoke Bottoms, Stewed.—Dried artichoke bottoms should bo soaked for two or three hours in warm water, then boiled in salt and water, and served with white sauce poured over them; or stewed in gravy flavoured with ketchup, salt, and pepper, and thickened with fiour. Time to boil, three-quarters of an hour. Artichoke Salad, — Wash thoroughly and quarter some very young artichokes. Re- move the chokes, and eat tliem like radishes, with pepper, salt, vinegar, and oil. They taste like nuts, and make a nice relish. Time to prepare, ten minutes. Probable cost, 2d. or 3d. each. Artichoke Sauce.—Put a piece of butter the size of an egg into a saucepan ; let it melt; put into it an onion sliced, haK a head of celerj', a table-spoonful of chopped ham, a pinch of pow- dered cinnamon, one salt-spoonful of salt, and a little cayenne. Stir the ingredients constantly over a fire gently for a quarter of an hour, adding more butter, if necessary. Then add to them a pound of Jerusalem artichokes, boiled and beaten to a pulp, and a pint of milk. Boil all together until the sauce is rather thicker than cream. Strain, boU again, and serve hot. Time to boil the ingredients together, ten minutes. Pro- bable cost, Is. 2a. per pint. Sufficient for rather more than a pint of sauce. Artichokes (a la Barigoule).—Wash and trim three or four artichokes; remove the chokes, and fry the top of the leaves and the bottom of the artichokes in hot lard or fat for three or four minutes. Fill the ca\-ities with a forcemeat made with two ounces of finely-shred suet, two ounces of undressed veal free from fat or fibre, two ounces of bread-crumbs, two tea- spooTifuls of chopped parsley, a quarter of a tea-spoonful each of marjoram and thj-me, half a tea-spoonful of chopped shalot, two drachms of s,alt, one of pepper, one of powdered mace, and one of grated lemon-rind. Mix thoroughly; then work them together with the yolk of an egg. Fasten a piece of bacon on the top of each artichoke. Bind them with string or tape to keep them in their proper shape. Put them in a stewpan with brown grav>- sufficient to cover them. Let them stew gently tiU tender; re- move the strings; put them on a dish vcith a little of the gravy, thickened, round them. Time to stew, half an hour. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Sufficient for four persons. Artichokes, Fried (Ma Gouffc).—Wash and trim three young, freshly-cut artichokes. Cut them into thin slices, and as they are cut throw them into water with a cu])ful of vinogar in it; this is to preserve the colour. Drain(33) them, and season them with a pinch of salt and 5he s^me of pepper. Make a hatter wath three eggs, t^v-o table-spoonfuls of oil, and two of flour, men all are well mixed, put the slices of arti- choke into it, and stir it gently for three or four minutes, imtU every piece of artichoke is well covered. Fry gently m hot fat, hemg carefid that the vegetable is cooked throughout as weU as broAvned. Drain off the fat, pile the slices on a napkin, and garnish with a httle fried parsley. Time to fry, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, 2d. or 3d. per pound. Suflicient for two or three persons. Artichokes (a la ItaKenne).—WeU wash, trim, and quarter the artichokes, and boil them in salt and water until tender. Remove the chokes, diain thoroughly, and arrange them on a dish with the leaves outwards, and intersperse them with watercresses. Pour good white sauce, flavoured with stewed mushrooms, over them. Time .to boil the artichokes, half an hour. Probable cost, 2d. to 4d. each. Allow one artichoke for each person. ASTICHOKE. Artichokes (a la Lyonnaise).—Wash, blanch, and trim four artichokes; then place them in a stewpan with two ounces of butter, the juice of a lemon, a pinch of salt, and a pinch of pepper. Simmer them gently until they are sufSciently cooked, then drain them from the fat, and put them into the oven to brown lightly. Put a cupful of good stock into the saucepan in which the artichokes were stewed. iStir gently for a few minutes, add a glass of white wine, and serve. Time, three- quarters of an hour. Probable cost, 2d. to 4d. each. Sufficient for throe persons. Artichokes la Poivrade).—Take four or live young artichokes: trim them, remove the chokes, cut off the lower leaves, divide thorn into four, and throw them into vinegar and cold water to preserve the colour. When wanted, drain them from the vinegar and water, ])ut them into a dish, and serve like radishes. I'cppor, salt, oil, and vinegar should be sent to table with them. Probable cost, 2d. to 4d. each. Sufficient for a small side-dish. Artichokes, Boiled.—Soak the arti- chokes, and wash them in aeveral waters to C expel the insects. Cut the stalks even, and trim away the lower leaves and the ends from the upper one. Boil them in plenty of salted water with the tops downwards, and let them remain until the leaves can be easily drawn out. Send a little Dutch sauce to table with them. Boiled artichokes often form a separate dish. The leaves should be pulled out with the fingers, dipped in the sauce, and carried to the mouth. Time, if young, about half an hour; longer, if old. Allow one for each person. Probable cost, from 2d. to 4d. each. Artichokes, Dried.—Wash the arti- chokes in two or thi-ee waters. Put them for a quarter of an hour in plenty of fast-boUing water. Drain, and place them in a mode- rate oven for an hour. Allow them to cool. Eepeat this several times, until they are quite dry. They should be kept in a dry place, well covered. Time to prepare, three or four hours. Probable cost, 2d. to 4d. each. Artichokes, Pried.—Wash, trim, aiid boil the artichokes as directed in the recipe for ARTICHOKE IN SECTION. A The Leaves, b The Choke, c The Bottom. boiling. E-cmove the chokes and the outer leaves, leaving only the most tender. Cut them into about a dozen pieces, then dip them in batter, fry in hot oil or diipping until they are lightly browned, drain, and serve with fried parsley. Time to fry, five or six minutes. Probable cost, 2d. to 4d. each. Allow three for four persons. Artichokes, Pried (another way).—Pare some artichokes, and boil them in salt and water for about a quarter of an hour. Drain, and cut them into slices about a quarter of an inch in thickness, cUp them into the white of egg well beaten, and afterwards strew finely-grated bread 0 a them. Fry in boiling oil or lard till they are nicely browned, and serve piled high on a dish. Time to fry, eight minutes. Artichokes, Jerusalem, Boiled.— Peel the artichokes, and throw each root into cold water and vinegar immediately, to preserve the colour. Put them into boUing water, with a little salt, until sufficiently tender for a fork to pass through them easUy, then pUo them on a dish, and serve as hot as possible ^vith molted butter or white sauce poured over. SoyerASP (34) shiipod tlittm like a poar, thon Htowod thorn gmitly ill tliroo pints of water witli two or tlii'iio onions thinly hHcoiI, onts ounce of salt, and one onnco of butter, lie thon placed a border of mashed potatoes round a disli, stuck the articliokes in it points upwards, jwured over them either white sauce or melted butter, and liut a lino brusscls Hi)rout between each. It mado a pretty inviting; dish. Time to boil, Jilmut twenty minutes. They should bo tried Avith a fork frequently after a quarter of an hour, as they wnU. become Itlack and tasteless if allowed to remain on the fire longer than necessary. ^Ulow two pounds for 'a tui-cen. Probable cost, 2d. or 3d. per pound. Artiohokes, Jerusalem, Fricasseed. —Boil some artichokes according to the pre- ceding recipe. Take them out of the water and drain them. Put a breakfast - cupful of nulk into a saucepan, ilavom- it with salt, pepper, and powdered cinnamon, and thicken it Avith a small piece of butter rolled in flour. Turn the artichokes into this, and let all stew together gently for a few minutes. Time to stew, five or six minutes. Probable cost, 2d. or 3d. per pound. Allow two pounds for a tureen. Artichokes, Jerusalem, Pried.—Pare and cut the artichokes in slices about the eighth of an inch in thickness, and fry them in sufficient boiling oil or ikrd for them to swim in imtil they are a rich brown. Strew a little salt over them, pile high on a dish, and send to table hot. Time to fry, eight or ten minutes. Sufficient, two pounds for a moderate-sized dish. Probable cost, 2d. or 3d. per pound. Artichokes, Jerusalem, in White Sauce.—Wash and pare the artichokes, and throw each root as it is pared into cold water, to preserve the colour. Cut a little piece off one end, so that each one will stand, and taper the other end. Boil them in milk and water, and when tender arrange them in a dish with the points uppermost, and pour over them a good white sauce. Time to boil, about twenty minutes. Probable cost, 2d. or 3d. per pound. Allow two pounds for a tureen. Artichokes, Jerusalem, Mashed.— AVasli and pare some artichokes; boil them in salt and water until quite tender, then drain and press the water thoroughly from them. Put them into a saucepan, and beat to a pulp; adding salt, pepper, and a little cream. Serve quite hot. Time to boil, twenty minutes; to mash, five minutes. Probable cost, 2d. or 3d. per pound. Allow two pounds for four or five persons. Artichokes, Jerusalem, Soup, or Puree of.—Put a piece of butter the size of an egg into a saucepan : lot it melt; then throw into it two bay-leaves, one sliced onion, three pounds of Jerusalem artichokes washed, pared, and sliced, and lialf a pound of bacon in rashers. Keep these well stiiTcd in the boiling butter for about ten minutes; then add to them, gradually, one pint of stock. liOt all boil up together imtil tho vegetables arc thoT-nughly conked; then add tlirco pints more .''tock, stii* it wcU, add pepper and salt to taste, press it through a sieve, and add one pmt of boiling milk. Boil five minutes more, and serve with toasted bread cut in dice. 'I'ime to boil, about one hour and a half Probable cost, lOd. ]^(;r i^int. .Sufficient fo,- wii persons. Artichokes Stewed in Gravy.—strip off tli() leaves frojn tli(j artichokes, remove the chokes, and soak tluim in lukewann water for three hours, changing tho water three or four times. Place them in a saucepan with enough gravy to cover them, a tfible-sprxjnful of mmsh- room ketchu]), the juice of a lemon, and a ])ieco of butter, tho size of a walnut, roUed in flour. Let them stew gently until tender, then sen'e with the sauce poured over them, and as liot om possible. Time to stew, half an hour. Allow one for each person. Probable cost, 2d. to 4d. each. Artichokes, Stuffed. — ITioroughly wash tho artichokes, lioil them until they are nearly tender, drain them, remove the middle leaves and the chokes, and lay in each a little good forcemeat, and put them in a mode- rate oven untU the meat is sufficiently cooked. Make a little good melted butter to serve with them. Time to bake, half an hour. Allow one for each person. Probable cost, 6d. each. Ashantee Pudding.—Shred finely, with a little flour, half a pound of suet; mix with it an equal weight of finely-grated bread-crumbs, three ounces of ground rice, a tea-spoonful of baking-powder, and the rind of a lemon, finely chopped. Stir all together; then add three eggs, and if it is too stiff, a little milk may be put in. Place the mixture in a weU-oiled basin; steam it, and serve hot, with melted butter and a little sherry. Time to steam, two hours. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for six persons. Ashberry Jelly.—This fruit is not often for sale, but must be gathered from the Moun- tain Ash. Wash the fruit thoroughly, and put it into a preserving-pan with water suf- ficient to cover it. Let it simmer gently imtU the water is red and has a bitter taste; then strain but do not squeeze the fruit. Put a pound of sugar to every pint of liquor, and boil it over a good fii-e until it jellies. Pour it into jars, and when cold cover ■with tissue paper dipped in gum water. The fruit should be gathered when it is red, but before the frost has touched it. It should be placed on the table with venison. Time to boil, about forty minutes. Asparagus, Boiled.—Choose bimches of asparagus which have the cut fresh and tho heads straight. If the cut end is broAvn and dry, and the heads bent on one side, the as- jiaragus is stale. It may be kept a day or two ^vith the stalks in cold water, but is much better fresh. Scrape oft' the white sldn from the lower end, and cut the stalks of equal length. Let them lie in cold water until it is time to cook them. Put a handful of salt into a gallon of water; and lot it boil. Tie the asimragus in bundles and piit them into it. Toast a slice of bread brown on each side, dip it in the water, and lay it on a dish. A\'hen the asjMiragus is sufficiently cooked, dish it on the toast, lcavin<;(36) the white ends outwards each way. Send melted butter to table with it. Time to cook, about twenty minutes. Fresh asparagus cooks more quickly than stale. Probable cost, 'is. 6d. a hundred. Sufficient, fifty for half a dozen persons. Asparagus, Fricasseed.—Wash a quarter of a hundred heads of asparagus, cut oft' the tender portion, and lay them into cold water until they are required. Drain them, and chop them with a young lettuce, half a head of endive, and a small onion. Put a piece of butter the size of an egg into a sauce- pan, melt it, then mix with it smoothly a dessert-spoonful of floiir and half a pint of stock. Add the chopped vegetables, with pepper and salt, and let all stew gently until the sauce is thick and good. Serve hot. Time to stew, half an hour. Probable cost for this quantity, Is. Asparagus, French Method of Cooking.—Wash and boil the asparagus about twenty minutes; then drain them, and cut off the heads and about two inches of the tender part of the stalks; mince them small, and mix with them an onion also chopped small. Add the weU-beaten yolk of an egg, salt and pepper. Make it hot, put a slice of toast upon it, and pour a good sauce over all, or sippets of toasted bread may be placed under it. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. per hundred, when fully in season. Allow half a hundred for six persons. Asparagus Heads as Peas.—Take off about two inches of the head-ends of the asparagus; cut them into pieces about the size of peas, and put them into a saucepan with some cold salt and water. Let them boil about ten minutes; then take them out, drain them, melt a piece of utter the size of an egg in a saucepan, and place them in it. Shake the saucepan over the fire for a few minutes; then sprinkle a dessert-spoonful of flour over it, and a small tea-cupful of boiling water, pepper and salt to taste, and pour over the asparagus the beaten yolks of two eggs, mixed with four table- spoonfids of new milk. Let all simmer gently for five or ten minutes; then serve. Time, half an hour. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Allow a hundred for a tureen full. Sufficient for five or six persons. Asparagus Omelet.—Boil in the usual ■way twenty-five heads of asparagus, and cut the green ends, when tender, into pieces the size of peas. Asparagus that has been pre- viously cooked may be used in this way, first heating it in a little boiling water. Mix with them four well-beaten eggs, and add a little pepper and salt. Melt a piece of butter the size of an egg in an omelet pan, pour in the mixture, stir still it thickens, fold it nicely over, and serve with sauce and vinegar. Time to iry, six minutes. Probable cost, ls.4d. Sufficient for three persons. Asparagus Pudding.—Take half a hundred young asparagus, and cut up the green part into pieces as small as peas. Beat a piece of butter the size of an egg to a cream; add to it a cupfiil of flour, two tea-spoonfuls of finely- chopped ham, four eggs well beaten, the asparagus, and a little pepper and salt. Mix all well together, and add sufficient milk to make it into a stiff batter. Put it into a well- oiled mould, wrap it in a floured cloth, and place in a saucepan of boiling water. When sufficiently cooked, turn it on a hot dish, and pour good melted butter round it. This is a very nice way of cooking asparagus. Time to boil, two hours. Probable cost, 28. for a pint mould, Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Asparagus Sauce.—Cut the green ends off a quarter of a hundred of asparagus, and boil them in salt and water, until they are tender. Drain well, make a little good melted butter, using stock instead of water, putting with it a lump of sugar and the juice of a lemon. Fry the asparagus points in a little boiling butter, press them through a sieve, then add them to the melted butter, and let all boil up together. If the colour is not very good, a few leaves of young spinach mixed in a mortar with pounded sugar will improve it. Time to boil the asparagus, ten minutes. To fry it, six or seven. Sufficient, a quarter of a hxmdred of asparagus for half a pint of melted butter. Probable cost, lOd. per half pint. Asparagus Soup. — Take a hundred heads of asparagus. Cut away the hard, tough part, and boil the rest till tender. Drain them, throw half into cold water until the soup is nearly ready, and press the other half through a hair sieve. Stir the pressed asparagus into three pints of stock, which has not been fla- voured with any other vegetable. Boil it, and add salt, pepper, and a small lump of sugar. Cut the remaining heads of asparagus into pieces the size of peas. Put them into the soup for a few minutes and serve. If necessary, colour with a little spinach green. Time, about an hoiir. Probable cost of asparagus, 2s. 6d. a hundred in full season. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Asparagus Soup (another way).—Take the tops from half a hundred heads of asparagus, and soak them in water for some time. Then put them into three pints of nicely-flavoured stock to which has been added a cupful of new milk, and let them boil for ten minutes. If necessary, colour with a little spinach green. Time to make, one hour. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Probable cost, 6d. per pint. Asparagus Soup, Allemand.—Lay three rashers of bacon at the bottom of a sauce- pan. Place on them four pounds of lean beef cut into pieces and rolled in flour. Cover the pan closely, and put it over a gentle fire to draw out the gravy, taking care it does not bum. Pour over it a breakfast-cupful of ale and three pints of water. Let it simmer gently for two hours. Strain the liquor, and take off the fat. Salt and pepper should be added according to taste. Or, boil gently for two hours half a pound of fresh meat cut small and rolled in flour, with a cupful of ale and two quarts of water. Let the water be cold at first, brought to a boil, then drawn on one side, and simmered slowly but constantly. A table-spoonful of ground rice may be added, if not quite(3& ) ATTN tliiok enough. Strain, and while boiling hot add two tea-spooufuls of Liobig's extract of moat. Add popper, and a liberal Bupply of sjtlt. Then chop and pound together a cabbage Icttiico, a toa-Bpoouful of chopped mint, a tea- spoonful of sorrol, the same oi marjoram, five or six loaves of beetroot, and tlio same of spinach. Put them into the liquid, and lot all boil together. Throw in a pint of asparagus tops, cut small, and boil till they aro tender. Pour hot over a French roll. Time, three hours. SufBciont for half a dozen persons. I'robablo cost, fi-ora lOd. to Is. 6d. per pint. Asparagus Stewed in French Rolls. —Take two or tliroe French rolls, cut a piece off the top straight, so that it can be fixed on again, and scoop out all the cnunb. Make a mixtiu-e of a pint of new milk, the yolks of five eggs, a littlo salt, pepper, and powdered cinna- mon. Put it into a saucepan and let it simmer gently, Stirling constantly until it thickens. Boil a hundred yoimg asparagus, cut about two inches from the tops, and chop them small, leaving about a dozen and a half of the tops untouched. Fill the hollow rolls with the hot mixture ; make some holes in the lids of the roUs, stick the green ends that were not chopped into them, to look as if the asparagus were growing through the rolls, lay the tops on, and fry in boiling oil or lard. It will take from twenty to twenty-five minutes to boil the as- paragus. Probable cost of asparagus, 28. 6d. a hundred, when in fuU season. Sufficient for six persons. Aspic Game or Poultry.—Cut up what is left of game or poultry into neat joints. Pour some aspic jeUy into the bottom of a mould which has been soaked in cold water; next a laj^er of stars or diamonds cut out of cold boiled white of egg; a few leaves of parsley, and the red part of cold boiled tongue dotted here and there. Let it become nearly stiff, then arrange the cold game or poultry, taking care to leave room for the jelly to run in between. Fill the mould with jelly, which shoiild be cool Avhen it is poured m. When quite stiff, turn on a mould and garnish with parsley. Time to stiffen, about twelve hours. Aspic Jelly. — Put a knuckle-bone of veal, a knuckle-bone of ham, a calf's foot, four cloves stuck into one large onion, one large carrot, and a bunch of savoury herbs, in two quarts of water, and boil gently until it is reduced rather more than half. Strain, and put it aside to cool. Very carefully remove every particle of fat or sediment, and place the jelly in a saucepan with a glass of white vfine, a table-spoonful of tan-iigon vinegar, salt and pepper to taste, and the whites of two eggs. Keep stirring imtil it nearly boils, which may be known by its becoming white, then draw it to the side of the fire, and simmer gently for a quarter of an hour. Put on the cover, lot it stand to settle, and strain through a jcUy-bag two or three times if necessary, imtil it is quite clear. Put it into n, mould which has been soaked in cold water. Timv, four or five houis. Kulficicnt for two and a half pints of jeUy. Probable cost, 28. 6d. Aspic JeUy (a quick way of making), —lake a pint of liicely-liavourod, clear aUjtk, put It into a saucepan with a glaas of wliite wme,andadesBort-spooni'ul of tarragon vinegar 1 ut a large table-spoonful of gelatine with two ot water, let it swell, tlicn stir it in with tho stock till is dissolved; add tho whites and crushed shells of two eggs, draw it back, and let it simmer for ten minutes; strain through a jelly-bag till clear, and pour it into a mould tliat has been soaked in cold water. Time to make, about half an hour. Sufficient for a pint and a half of jelly. Probable cost, lOd. Aspic Jelly for Garnishing.—Take two pints of nicely-flavoured stock, of a clear and firm jelly; put this into a saucepan with a blade of mace, a table-spoonful of tar- ragon vinegar, and a glass of sherry. Let it boil, then stir into it an ounce of the best gelatine which has been soaked in a little cold water. When again cool add the whisked whites of two eggs, let it boil, then draw it on one side to settle, strain through a jeUy- bag imtil quite clear, and pour it on a dish which has been standing in cold water. Cut it into dice for garnishing. Time to make, about an hour. Sufficient for two and a half pints of jelly. Probable cost, lOd. without the wine. Aoses' Milk, Artificial.—Boil an ounce of pearl barley and an ounce of eringo root in a quart of water until it is reduced one half. Stir into it half an ounce of gelatine dissolved in a little water, a pint of new milk, and two lumps of sugar. Time, one hour. Sufficient for one quart. Probable cost, 8d. Asses' Milk, Artificial (a quick way of making).—Take a tea-spoonful of prepared barley. ]Mix it smoothly with a table-spoonful of water, and stir it into half a pint of boiling water. Put with it a lump of sugar-candy. Let it simmer, stirring all the time, for five minutes. Strain it, then mix with it half a pint of new milk, and a well-beaten new-laid egg. This is a wholesome and agi'eeable drink for invalids. Time to prepare, ten minutes. Pro- bable cost, 3d. Sufficient for a pint and a half. Athole Cakes (very good).—Mix two table-spoonfuls of finely-sijfted sugar, with half a pound of Maizena, and a heaped tea-spoon- ful of the best baking-powder. Shred finely the thin rind of a lemon and a small piece of candied peel. Stir in another bowl six oimces of butter to a cream, mix with it the above ingredients, and last of all, add two well-beaten eggs. Well oil patty-pans, put a piece about the size of a walnut into each, and bake in a good oven for five or six minutes. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for two dozen cakes. Aunt Alice's Pudding.—Place a little jam at the bottom of a pie-dish. Mix three table-spoonfuls of bread-crumbs, one table- spoonful of sugar, a little chopped lemon- rind, the juice of half a lemon with two eggs, and a tea-cupfid of milk. Pour it over the jam, and bake in a good oven. A vcr>' nice pudding may bo made by substituting nieces of staleAUS (37) AUN bread for the bread-cnirabs. Soak two or three pieces in the milk, heat well with a fork, and add the other ingredients. Time to bake, three-quarters of an hour. Sutficient for five or six persons. Probable cost, 8d. Aunt Edward's Christmas Cake (Economical).—Blend thoroughly one pound of flour, a pinch of salt, one heaped tea-spoon- ful of baking powder, two ounces of butter, and two ounces of lard, a quarter of a pound of sugar, half a pound of currants, candied lemon-peel and spices to taste. Mix rather lightly with water. Bake in a good oven. Tmie to bake, an hour and a half. Sufficient for two moderate-sized cakes. Probable cost, 9d. for this quantity. PUDDIIIG MOULDS. Aunt Elizabeth's Pudding.—Take a breakfast-cupful of stale bread, and pour over it a pint of milk. Let it soak for half an hour, then beat it well with a fork. Next add a piece of butter the size of a walnut, a heaped table-spoonful of sifted sugar, the grated rind of a lemon, and the yolks of two well-beaten eggs. Bake in a good oven, and when sufficiently cooked, spread a little apple- i'am over it, and pile over that some acid ice. letum it to the oven for a few minutes. Time to bake, half an hour. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Aunt Mary's Pudding.—WeU butter a plain mould, and stick alternate layers of raisins and sliced almonds round it. Pour a breakfast-cupful of warm fresh milk over a tea-cupful of finely-grated bread-crumbs. Let them soak for a little while, then add a small piece of butter, a dessert-spoonful of sugar, a little thinly-grated lemon-rind, and two eggs. Beat aU well together, pour the mixture into the mould, cover it closely, and allow it to steam for three hours. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Aunt Susie's Pudding.—Beat a quarter of a pound of butter to a cream. Stir gradually into it two table-spoonfuls of ground rice, and the same of fine flour, sugar to taste, the thin find of half a lemon chopped small, 'two ounces of candied orange or citron-peel, a breakfast- cupful of new milk, and two weU-beaten eggs. Flavour with a few drops of essence of almonds, pour the mixture into a well-oiled mould, tie in a cloth, and boil it. Turn out, and serve with sweet sauce. A little brandy will be an improvement. Time to boil, two hours. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for four or five persona, Aurelian Cake.—^lix half a pound of ground rice and half a pound of loaf sugar well together. Add to them the well-whisked yolks of twelve and the whites of seven eggs, with a little brandy and a few drops of essence of almonds. Stir the whole well together for quite twenty minutes. Pour the mixture into a well-oiled mould, and bake in a quick oven. Time to bake, half an hour. Probable cost, Is. 8d. Sufficient for a medium-sized mould. Aurora Sauce.—Pound the spawn of a freshly-boiled lobster in a mortar, -ndth a piece of butter the size of an egg, until it is quite smooth, and season liberally with cayenne and salt. Put into a saucepan a breakfast-cupful of good white sauce, and add a table-spoonful of lemon-juice. Press the spawn through a fine sieve into the sauce; place it on the fire, and let it simmer gently, taking care to lift it off the fire before it boUs. Sufficient for a pair of soles. Probable cost, lOd. Time to simmer, two minutes. If the spawn is not at hand, the yolks of three eggs may be boiled quite hard, pressed through a colander, and substituted for it. KING DISH FOR AUSTRALIAN MEAT. Australian Meat.—The persistently high price of butcher's meat having greatly increased the demand for, and turned the attention of the public to the beef, mutton, and other meats imported from Australia and South America, we propose to give a few recipes for Presers^ed Meat Cookery. As the appearance of this meat is one of the chief objections to it, it should, when used cold, be served in the New Patent Ring Dish, the use of which is suffi- ciently explained in the above illustration, and in which the meat can be carved most con- veniently. Australian Beef (a la Mode).—Take two pounds of Australian beef, cut into pieces about the size of a walnut, and roll in flour. Melt the dripping which is with it in the tin, and mix with it very smoothly two table- spoonfuls of ground rice, and one pint and a half of nicely-flavoured stock. Add two baj-- leaves, seven black peppercorns, a salt-spoonful of salt, a dessert-spooiiul of mushroom ketchup, and an onion with four cloves stuck in it. Let all boil up together; then simmer gently for twenty minutes. Strain the liquid, return it to the saucepan, and colour it with a little browning; or if this is not at hand, put(38) AUS AITS two or throo lumps of supar into an iron spoon, and molt them over Iho lire until the sugar is a dark brown—not black. Dissolve this in a little boiling water, and add it to the gravy, which ought to bo a rich brown colour and as thick as cream. Put in the pieces of meat, lot them simmer for three or four minutes, and serve on a hot dish. Time, one hour. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for four persons. Australian Beef, Cold.—The bull's- head knife is the best for opening the tins of Australian meat. Make a hole with the sharp point about half an inch from the top. Put the sharp end of the knife into the hole and work round until the top of the tin is taken com- pletely off. Turn the meat out firm into the dish. Remove every particle of dripping and jelly, and servo with salad, pickles, and mashed potatoes. The dripping may be clarified, and used for frying or making plain pastry, and the jelly is a valuable addition to stock or beef-tea. Sufficient, one two-pound tin for four persons. Probable cost, Is. to Is. 4d. Australian Beef Collops.—Mince finely one poimd of Australian beef. Place a piece of butter the size of an egg in a saucepan, and when melted fry in it one onion chopped small, till it is lightly browned. Then add a ci5)f ul of nicely-flavoured stock, the juice of a lemon, a tea-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, pepper and salt to taste, and the mince. Let all simmer together a minute, then serve in a hot dish with sippets of toast. Probable cost. Is. Suf- ficient for three or four persons. Australian Beef, Curried.—Melt a piece of butter the size of a large egg in a saucepan, and place in it half a Spanish onion sliced. Fry it to a light brown; then add a sour apple, finely minced, and a cupful of nicely-flavoured stock. Work in very smoothly a table-spoonful of curry paste. Let aU boil together, stirring aU the time, for three or four minutes, press the sauce through a sieve, and add square pieces of Australian beef dredged with flour. Simmer five minutes longer, during which time the meat must be covered with the gravy. Serve with a border of boiled rice round the dish, and the meat and gravy in the middle. Time to pre- pare, ten minutes. Allow the contents of a two-pound tin for six people. Probable cost, Is. 8d. Australian Beef Mould.—Prepare one pound of beef in the same way as for rissoles, omitting the egg and bread-crumbs. Put it into a well-oiled mould, tie it in a cloth, and steam it for an hour. Turn out on a hot dish, and pour good gravy round it. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for four persons. Australian Beef Pie.—Cut the meat into pieces about the size of a walnut and lay them in a pie-dish, with pepper, salt, and a little nicely-flavoured stock. Cover the whole with mashed potatoes about an inch and a half in thickness, and brown in a good oven. Time to brown, twenty minutes. A pie made with two pounds of meat is sufficient for four or five MjrBona, Pr9l»ble cost, Is. 64. Australian Beef Pie (another way).— Stew a pound of frosli m(jat until tender. Place it in a pie-dish with the gravy in which it was stowed, a pound of Australian beef, and the contents of a tin of oysters. Place them in layers, cover with a light crust, and bake in a quick oven. Time to buko, half an hour. Suf- liciout for five or six i>er8onjH. Probable cost, 28. 4d. Australian Beef Bissoles. — Mince finely one pound of Australian beef and half a pound of bread-crumbs. Mix thoroughly with it a quarter of a pound of dripping, a little salt, a rather plentiful supply of pepper, and one egg well beaten. Roll into pats, dip them in egg and bread, and fry in boiling oil or lard until they are nicely browned. Serve in a dish with a little good gravy round them. Time to fry, ten minutes. Probable cost, lOd. Suf- ficient for four persons. Australian Beef, Boast. —Take off the fat and gravy, tie the solid meat from a four-pound tin tightly together with tapes, flour it well, and hang it before a brisk fire for half an hour, basting it well with the fat and gravy which was taken from it. Pour off the dripping, and make gravy in the usual way. Sufficient for six persons. Probable cost, 2s. 4d. Australian Beef and Jelly. (Imita- tion calf's head.)—Soak an ounce of the best gelatine in half a pint of cold water for twenty minutes. Add to this half a pint of nicely- flavoured stock, a dessert-spoonful of tarragon vinegar and a glass of white wine. Put it on the fire, stir it imtil the gelatine is dissolved, and clear off with white of egg (se* Aspic Jelly). Place a little of the jelly at the bottom of a damp mould. Let it set, then cut two hard-boiled eggs into rings, diamonds, or any ornamental devices; place them on the jelly, and nearly fiU the mould with pieces of Australian beef or mutton. Do not pack it tightly, but leave space for the jelly to run in between. Sprinkle a little chopped parsley over it, then fill up the mould with the re- mainder of the jelly. Turn it out when cold. This is a nice breakfast or supper dish. Time, five or six hours. Australian Beef and Macaroni.- Put four ovmces of. macaroni into sufficient boiling water, and let it stew until tender. Mince finely two pounds of Australian beef, flavour it with salt, pepper, and a little powdered cinnamon. Make it quite hot, moistening it with a cupful of nicely-flavoured stock; lay it on a round of toast, with the macaroni over it, and serve with hot mashed potatoes. Time to boil the macaroni, one hour and a half. Probable cost. Is. 8d. Sufficient for six persons. Australian Beef and Mushrooms (delicious).—Take half a pint of mushroom buttons, pare them, cut the ends off the stalks, and place them in cold water. Melt a piece of butter in a fite\\-pan, put the mush- rooms into it, with a little pepper and salt, and the juice of a lemon. Let them simmer gently until tender ; then add a cupful of nicely- flavonrod stock, and put with tht^m one pound 9f Australiaii beef, put iflto square pieces aboutBAG (39) AITS the size of a walnut, and thickly dredged with flour. Lot it simmer slowly, being careful that it does not burn, and serve as hot as possible, with sippets round the dish. Time to stew the mushrooms, twenty-five minutes; with the meat, four minutes. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Australian Haricot Beef—Put a pint of haricot beans into sufficient cold water to cover them, and let them soak until the next day. Drain them, and boil them in two quarts of water for a couple of hours; then pour the water from them, and place them by the side of the fire, with the .lid of the saucepan off, to dry. Shake in with them a lump of butter, and a little pepper and salt. Put a piece of butter the size of an egg into a sauce- pan, let it melt, then fry in it two onions thinly sliced until nicely and lightly browned. Work in very smoothly a table-spoonful of groimd rice, a brealifast-cupful of good stock, one scraped carrot, one tiu-nip chopped small, one table-spoonful of Harvey's sauce, a wine- glassful of port wine, and a little pepper and salt. Let all simmer gently for half an hour. Take one pound of nice square pieces of Australian beef, dredge them with flour, and put them iuto the gravy for a few minutes. Put the hot haricot beans round the dish, the beef and gravy in the middle, and serve. Time, forty minutes. Probable cost, Is. 3d., without the ^vine. Sufficient for four or five persons. Australian Irish Stew.—Simmer three large onions in a pint and a half of nicely- flavoured stock until nearly tender; add pepper and salt, then put with them two dozen large potatoes. Let these stew softly untU nearly cooked, when the contents of a two-pound tin of Australian mutton, cut into square pieces, may be added. Let it simmer five minutes longer, and serve on a hot dish. Time, alto- gether about one hour and a half. Sufficient for four or five persons. Probable cost, 28. Australian Meat and Tomatoes.— Scald a dozen tomatoes and place them in a stewpan with a little salt and three ounces of butter. Let them stew very gently till tender. Then heat the contents of a two-pound tin of Australian beef. Place it on a hot dish, and the tomatoes round it, and serve with mashed potatoes. Probable cost, 28. 4d. Sufficient for four persons. Time to stew the tomatoes, half an hour; to warm the meat, ten minutes. Australian Mutton.—Nearly all the recipes which have been given for Australian beef will apply to Australian mutton. Australian Mutton, Boiled, and Caper Sauce.—Make half a pint of caper sauce. Take the top ofl: a tin of mutton, and place it in a saucepan with boiling water, but do not let the water be high enough for any to enter the tin. Let it become thoroughly heated, then turn it on a dish, and serve it with turnips, carrots, potatoes, and the sauce. Time, quarter of an hour to heat the mutton. Probable cost, 28. Sufficient for four or five persons. Australian Mutton and Stewed Carrots,—Scrapr: h;ilt' a dqz^j}, cj^rrots, boil them until tender, drain and chop them into small pieces. Melt a piece of butter the size of an egg in a saucepan, stir smoothly into it a table-spoonful of floui-; add a cupful of milk, a table-spoonful of boiled and chopped parsley, the carrots, a little grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper. Let all simmer together for a few- minutes. Put in one pound of mutton, let it get hot, then serve in a hot dish. Time, half an hour. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for three persons. Australian Potted Meat.—Mnce verj' finely the lean part of the meat, remove the skiany parts, and flavour rather highly with pepper, salt, and a little powdered allspice. Pound it in a mortar, adding from time to time a little oiled butter, until it is quite smooth. Press it into pots, and pour a little claiified butter over the top of each pot. Time to pre- pare, twenty minutes. Allow one pound for five persons. Probable cost, 9d. Austrian Pudding.—Mix one pound of flour with a quarter of a pound of finely-shred suet. Add a pinch of salt, a heaped tea- spoonful of baking-powder, a table-spoonful of chopped lemon-rind, and a table-spoonful of moist sugar. jVIix a large breakfast-cupful of lukewarm milk with a cupful of good treacle; stir it into the flour, pour all into a well-oiled movdd, and tie it in a floured cloth. Serve with sweet sauce. Time to boil, three hours. Sufficient for six persons. Probable cost, 8d. Austrian Puffs.—Pound three ounces of almonds in a mortar, vnth a little rose-water. When reduced to a paste, add three table- spoonfuls of finely-sifted sugar, three ounces of butter melted, but not hot, thi'ee table-spoonfuls of flour, and a cupful of new milk or cream. Beat all thoroughly together, well oil the patty- pans, and half fill them. Bake in a moderate oven. Time to bake, twenty minutes. Pro- bable cost, lOd. Sufficient for a dozen puffs. Baba with Raisins.—Mix half an ounce of Gennan yeast and four ounces of sifted flour with warm water to a soft dough, and put it near the fire to rise. Eub twelve ounces of butter into twelve ounces of flour, work it into a smooth paste vnth eight well-beaten eggs, one ounce of pounded sugar, and a little salt. When the paste is ready and the sponge suffi- ciently risen, blend them well together and mix in two ounces of finely-minced candied citron- peel, two ounces of woll-di-ied currants, and three ounces of stoned raisins. Butter a mould—fill it about half full, and allow it to rise until it is nearly at tne top, when it may be baked at once in a moderate oven. Time to bake, one hour and a half. Probable cost, 2s. 4d. Sufficient for a three-pint mould. Bachelor's Beef (sec Beef, Bachelor's). Bachelor's Broiler.—This pan, whi(!h was intended by the inventor, Captain Warren, for the use of bachelors who are occasionalljy compelled to cook their own meat,BAG (40) BAG is not only adniiriiljly iidai)tc'd for itu special pur- Sose, but may also bo UHod with advantage in omcstic cookery. In appoaranco it i tiscinhleK a sort of double saute pan, one part of wliicli acts as a lid to the other. Tho inside is iluted, 80 that tliero is little danger of tlio moat sticking to the bottom, and as there is u handle to oadi part, and the two can be fi.xod secui-ely togetluir, the meat can bo turned to either side without its being nei^essary to remove tho lid, and so allow tlio heat to escape. Tho advantages which may bo gained from using this pan are obvious. There is littlo danger that tho meat will cither bo burned or smoked, and the closely-fitting lid so economises tho heat that even with a mode- rate amount of fuel despatch is easily attained. Chops, steaks, omelets, and fish may all be cooked in this pan. Price 3s. 6d. and 4s. 6d. Bachelor's Pudding.—Beat up three eggs and add them, with a flavouring of essence of lemon and grated nutmeg, to four ounces each of finoly-niinced apples, currants, grated bread-crimibs, and two ounces of sugar. Mix thorouglilj'- and boil in a buttered mould for three hours. Probable cost, 9d. Sufficient for four persons. Bacon, Boiled.—Put the piece of bacon to be boiled into the pot with sufficient cold water to cover it. Allow it very gradually to come to a boil, removing all scum as it arises, and diaw it aside to simmer until thoroughly done ; then puU off the skin and serve with bread-crumbs over the top. Time to boil two pounds, one hour and a half; half an hour for each addi- tional pound. Bacon, Boiled, To Warm. — Many people tliink that bacon once boUed must be eaten cold, but the following mode wiU show that it is easy to make it an agreeable and also an economical breakfast dish. Cut it into thin slices, sprinkle each slice with fine bread-crumbs, with which a very little cayenne has been mixed, and toast qiiicldy before the fire. A common wire toaster that can be turned without dis- placing the bacon answers best. Bacon Broiled.—Cut streaked bacon into thin slices and lay them on a gridiron over the fire; turn repeatedly until of a light brown colour, and serve hot. Time to broil, three to four minutes. Probable cost, lOd. to Is. per pound. Bacon Cheeks, To Pickle.—To about sixteen pounds of meat, take of salt and sugar each one pound, and one ounce of saltpetre thoroughly blended together; sprinkle the cheeks well with salt, let them lie till next day, then drain well, and rub in the above ingre- dients. Turn and rub often, and in three weeks or a month, or less, they will be fit for use. Probable cost of pickle, 4hd. Bacon Sauce. — Make a mixture of a spoonful of flour and a little water; add to it vinegar and water in equal parts (one tea- cupful) , and tho yolks of three eggs well beaten. Cut a quarter of a pound of rather fat bacon into pieces the size of large peas, and fry them in a stewpan till they are of a pale brown colour. Add salt and pepper to taste, pour the mixture over them, and stir till thick. As this sauce is to be used cold allow for it, and do not make it too thick to pour. Probable cost, 6d. Bacon, Toasted.—Take thin shcos of bacon, place tlicm on the pins of an ordinary toast(!r; turn as required. They are more delicate if held on a fork before the fire, and if placed between tho common wire toasters they can be easily turned when one side is browned. Fat bacon should be cut t<jlcmbly thick for toasting or gi-illing, lean bacon somc-what thinner. Serve on a hot disli. I'njljablc cost, lOd. to Is. per pound. Bacon, To Gure and Keep free from Rust (ConjtKTT's Uecii'e).—WiUiain Coljbett, in his J{in-al Economy, gives the following method of curing bacon. Practical persons highlji re- commend it:—Take two sides or flitches of bacon, rub the insides with salt, then place one on the other, the flesh-side uppermo.'^t, in a salting-trough which has a gutter round its edges to drain away the brine; for to have sweet and fine bacon the flitches must not be sopping in brine, which gives it the objection- able taste that barrel and sea-pork have. Every one knows how different is the taste of fresh dry salt from that of salt in a dissolved state; there- fore, change the salt often—once in four or five days—let it melt and sink in, but not lie too long; change the flitches every ten days; put that at bottom which was first on the top. This mode will cost a great deal more in salt than the sop- ping mode, but without it the bacon will not be so sweet and fine, nor keep so well. The time required in making the flitches sufficiently salt depends on circumstances. It takes a longer time for a thick than a thin flitch, and longer in dry than in damp weather, or in a dry than in a damp place; but for the flitches of a hog of seven or eight stones, in weather not very dry or damp, about six weeks may do; and as the flitches should be fat, it receives httle injury from over salting. Bacon, To Gut up a Pig for.—In a pig of fail- size, the chine, which is excellent for roasting or boiling, is cut from between the sides or flitches as shown in the diagram; but if the pig is small the flitches should be divided down SECTIONAL DIAGBAM OF BACON PIO. A The Chine. b The Head. c The Leg. D The Flitch. e The Shoulder. the chine. The shoulders may be loft attached to the sides, or separated according to tho size of the pig. The legs are made into hams, and tho sides form what is bacon proper. The head or check is either boiled, collared, or pickled. The inner fat is melted for lard; and the pieces cut off in trimming the joints are used for sausages, pies, brawn, and other purjjoses (*f« Brawn, Ham, Lard, Pig's Cheek, &c.. Pork).BAG (41) BAC Bacon, To Smoke.—Bacon and hams mav bo smoked at home by being hung up in the" chimney of a tire in which wood only is burnt. Fir or deal must not be used. The best is oak, and its sawdust, if it can be procured. But the operation is best—because more slowly and uniformly—performed in buildings specially constructed for the purpose. The Westphalian hams, principally cured at Hamburg, are smoked in extensive chambers in the upper storeys of high buildings. The smoke Id conveyed to these rooms through tubes from fires in the cellar. The vapour is condensed and the heat absorbed; so that the smoke, when it reaches the meat, is dry and cool, and communicates a flavour far superior to that obtained by the common method. Bacon and Beans.—Put two pounds of good tender bacon into a pan with cold water, nearly full. When it has boiled over one horn- add a quart of shelled broad beans, and boil till tender. Take off the skin from the bacon, sprinkle bread-crumbs over the top of it, and serve with the beans under, and fried parsley as a garnish round the dish. Smoked bacon shoidd be dressed separately and placed on the beans when ready. Probable cost of bacon, lOd. to Is. per pound. Sufficient for four or five persons. Bacon and Beans (another way). — "Windsor, or broad beans, are rather indigestible if old. Throw some young beans, freshly sheUed, mto boiling water with a little salt. When the skin begins to shrivel drain them through a colander, and serve with parsley and butter. When the beans are old the out- side skins will come off easily if boiled for half an hour. The bacon should bo boiled separately {see BoUed Bacon), and placed on the top of the beans. Time to boil the beans, fif- teen to twenty minutes. Probable cost, 6d. to 8d. per peck. Bacon and Bread Fricadelle.—Lay half a pound of bacon in rashers between slices of crumb of bread of the same size, press them together and dip them into a batter of egg, milk, and flour, and fry them from eight to ten minutes over a moderate fire. Garnish with parsley or serve with a sharp sauce. Pro- bable cost, 8d. or 9d. Sufficient for two or throe persons. Bacon and Calf's Liver.—The most economical way to prepare this is to fry the bacon first and make the fat serve for the liver, which, as well as the bacon, should be cut into thm slices. Frj'- the bacon, and remove it as soon as it is done enough to a hot dish before the fire; flour and pepper the liver, and place it in the pan; turn frequently until done, then place a slice of bacon on each slice of liver. Make a gravy by pouring off the tat and dredging a little flour into the pan, pour in enough water to supply the quantity of gravy desired, add a table-spoonful of lemon-juice, boil and pour upon the dish, (jrami.sh with forcemeat or slices of lemon. Time, from five to ton minutes. Cost, bacon, Is hver, lOd. per pound. C* Bacon and Eggs. — Place nicoly-cut slices of streaked bacon, from which the rind has been cut off to prevent it from curling up, into a cold pan over a slow fire; turn frequently and serve with eggs, which may be poached or fried, and laid on the bacon. Time, three or four minutes. Bacon, Is. per pound. Bacon and Eggs, or Ham or Sausage and Eggs.—This may be called a " country dish." in Devonshire and Cornwall it is the standing one when all others fail. A nice dish of bacon and eggs is to be had at every way- side house. It too often happens that this very plain repast is indifferently cooked. When the bacon or ham is fried see that the fat be quite free from bum before the eggs are slipped into it; baste them with the fat, trim them and drain the grease before dishing. Sausages should be slowly dressed, or they are apt to burst, and so spoil the appearance of a savoury meal. Serve with mashed potatoes round the dish. Time, about five minutes. Probable cost of bacon, lOd. to Is. per pound; sausages, lOd. per pound. Bacon or Ham Omelet.—Beat six eggs, and add a small tea-spoonful of flour mixed with a table-spoonful of milk or water, and pepper and salt to taste. Mince half a pound of cold boiled bacon or ham, and stir it in with the egg. Dissolve a good piece of butter or fat in the omelet-pan and pour in the omelet. OMELIT-PAN. Shake the pan while dressing. In three or four minutes the sides may be folded over, and the omelet turned out on a hot dish, or taken up with a flat spoon. Some cooks prefer to put the bacon or ham in the middle and fold the sides over it. This kind of omelet may be made with a variety of ingredients : cold meat, kid- ney, green-peas, asparagus tops, small mush- rooms, oysters, and lobster. Time, from three to four minutes. Probable cost, about Is. with bacon. Sufficient for three or four per- sons. Bacon or Ham, To Cure (Devon- shire way). — Draw away all the slime and blood from two hams by rubbing them well with salt for two days before they are put into the pickle. Drain them, lay them in a pan, and pour over them boiling hot the following in- gredients :—two pounds of treacle, two ounces of saltpetre, one pound of common salt, and one pint of good vinegar; turn and baste them every day for a month, then drain and smoke. Time to salt, one month. Probable cost of pickle. Is. Sufficient for a ham of sixteen pounds weight. Bacon or Ham, To Cure (Wiltshire way).—The excellence of bacon depends to a great degree upon the care with which(42) BAI the meat is drained from blood and slime before It 18 Biilted. The amount of salt used is not so important if this be well uttoudod to, as will ])o seen by the Wiltshire mode. Tlie quantity of salt for a whole i)ig is one pound and a half of bay salt, and one pound of common salt to six ounces of sjiltpetro, and one pound and a half of the coarsest brown sugar or treacle. Strew common salt over the bacon, and let it drain a day and night. Powder the bay salt and salt- petre, and mix them thoroughly with the other salt and sugai-. When well blended, rub each piece of bacon and lay them togotlier in a trough. Turn every alternate day for a month. Smoke nine days. Sufficient for the flitches of one pig of ten or twelve stones. Bain Marie Pan—The Bain Marie is a shallow vessel generally made of copper, which 18 used for keeping sauces, stews, &c., hot when they are already sufficiently cooked, and it is not convenient that they should be immediately served. It will be found most valuable in those families where regularity and punctuality in meals cannot be depended upon, as it affords BAIN MAUIE PAD the best means of keeping dishes hot without destroying their flavour or burning them. When it is to be used the Bain Marie should be fiUed with boiling water, and the pans containing the sauces or entrees should be put into it closely covered. It should then be put upon a hot plate or by the side of the fire, to keep up the lieat of the water without allowing it to boil, and should there remain until the dishes are ■wanted. The principle of the Bain Marie may be adopted for keeping sauces and gravies warm when a proper pan is not at hand. Instead of re- taining the compounds slowly simmering by the side of the fire in the pan in which it was made, by which means it would in all probability be either smoked, burnt, or rendered flavourless, put it into a basin or jar, cover it closely and place it in a pan of boiling water. If the water is allowed to boil the sauce or gravy will become too thick. Price of the Bain Marie : Block tin, "with copper pan, soup pot, and glaze pot stew- pans, £2 15b. Strong copper from £7 10s. to £10 5s. Bake, To.—Baking is a most convenient, economical, and satisfactory mode of cooking certain dishes to which it is suited, otherwise it is most unsatisfactory and unprofitable. For pastry, cakes, and various puddings' an oven is indispensable, and many meat dishes are as well cooked in it as l)efore the fire. Amongst these may be mentioned the following : a hare, a leg of pork, a breast or fillet of veal, a goose, a duck a sucking-pig, a shoulder of mutton and potatoes, and many kinds of fish. Gravjes, iAjo, soups, beef-tea, and stock for calf's foot jelly laay ])o a<lvantag(!Ously cooked in a slow oven, it put into a jar with a closely-fitting lid, and allowed to remain long enough. There is, how- ever, no doubt that ordinary joints of meat, if baked in the oven, have a peculiar ta«t<^ which' i« not palatal)le, and wliich is doubtless caused by tlie fact that the fumes which arise in cook- ing are not carried off as they are when the meat is roasted. It has been said that meat loses less in weight and more in flavour Ijy baking than by any other mode. A little extra seasoning should therefore be added if a dish is to be cooked in this way. A baking-dish ought to be deep enough to cover the joint to the extent of an inch, and thus keep the juices from drying up. If the oven be very hot, cover the meat with a piece of w^hite paper well greased, and take it off in time to let the outside brown before serving. It is well to adopt this plan with large pies and cakes also, so that they may not be browned before they are sufficiently cooked, remembering only to let the pastrj' in pies set before the paper is put on. Pastry re- quires a tolerably quick oven to prevent ite becoming heavy. If too quick, however, the steam cannot escape. All large cakes should be baked in a moderate oven, or the outside will be hard before the middle is ready. In order to ascertain whether these are sufficiently cooked put a skewer or knitting-needle into the middle, and if when this is drawn out any moisture adheres to it the cake must be baked longer. All light cakes, such as sponge-cakes, cheese- cakes, &c., should be put into a brisk oven until they have risen. The heat may then go down a little. Never open the door of an oven in which anji;hing is being cooked in order to lessen the heat; rather decrease the fire. Baker's Rolls, American.—Well dry two poimds of flour. Add two spoonfuls of yeast, a little salt, and a piece of saleratus, about the size of a bean, dissolved in water. Mix all lightly together with a pint of milk and water; knead it well and set it on the hearth to rise, covering the bowl in which the dough is placed with a towel. Then make it up into about twelve rolls. Bake in a quick oven. Time to bake, quarter of a hour. Sufficient for twelve rolls. Probable cost, 6d. Bakewell Pudding.—Mix a pint of milk with the yolks and whites of four eggs beiiten separately. Add three ounces of finely-sifted sugar, three ounces of butter, which should be first melted, and one ounce of well-poundcd almonds. Lay three-quarters of a pint of bread- crumbs in a dish with a httle preserved fruit over, and fill up with the mixture. Bake one hour in a moderate oven. Probable cost, about Is. 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Bakewell Pudding (another way).— Line a dish with puff-paste, and lay the pre- serve as in the previous Bakewell pudding. Then mix equal weights (throe ounces) of pounded almonds, bread-crumbs, sugar, and melted butter, with the yolks of three eggs well beaten, and a little nutmeg and lemon.BAK BAB Stir all together, and place it over the pre- serve. Bake in a quick oven for twenty minutes. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for a small dish. Bakewell Pudding, Rich.—Line a tart- diah with puff-paste, lay on it any kind of pre- served fruit; get ready a quarter of a pound of melted butter, six ounces of finely-sifted sugar, and one ounce of almonds; add these ingre- dients to five yolks and two whites of eggs which have been thoroughly well beaten. Mix all together and fill up the dish. Bake care- fully for one hour in a moderate oven. Pro- bable cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Baking Powders are now so well and frequently prepared by good makers, and can be bought rea(£dy in large or small packets, that it is almost needless to give instructions for making them. For the benefit of those, how- ever, who prefer home-made preparations, the following recipe is given, and will be found both excellent and economic:—Crush half a pound of tartaric acid to a fine powder, and mix with it three-quarters of a pound of carbonate of soda, and three-quarters of a pound of ground rice. Put the mixture into a tin box, and store it in a dry place. When wanted, use a heaped tea- spoonful of the powder with each poimd of material. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Balnamoon Skink {see Irish Soup). Banbury Cakes.—These rich well-known cakes are prepared from a mince called Banbury meat, made with the following ingredients: half a pound of butter beaten to a cream, half a pound of lemon and orange-peel cut up fine, one pound of currants, half an ounce of cinna- mon, two and a half ounces of allspice. Mix all thoroughly, and keep it in a covered jar for use. The paste for these bims should be tolerably rich, rolled out thin, and cut into rounds or squares. To a layer of the mince, put on one round, cover over with another. Flatten with the hand, and moisten the edges with white of egg to make them adhere. Before putting into the oven brush the cakes over with the froth of eggs and sugar. They will take fifteen minutes to bake, and may be eaten hot or cold. Barbel.—This fish deserves very little no- tice. When cooked it is poor and woolly. The best method is to score and soak it in oU for half an hour, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and broil each side from eight to ten minutes over a moderate fire. Serve on a hot dish with Maitre d'Hotel butter. Barberries, To Candy.—Take some preserved barberries, wash them in warm water to cleanse them from the syrup, and cover with dry finely-powdered sugar. Put them quickly into a moderately-heated oven, keeping them well sprinkled with sugar, and turning fre- quently. Barberries, To Dry, in Bunches.— Take fine bunches and hang them for a quarter of an hour in a vessel of boiling water; remove them carefully without bruising, and simmer ten minutes in a boiling syrup made with two pounds of sugar and a pint of water; then draw the syrup from the fire, and let the bunches stay in it for several hours. Then hang them up to drain and dry. Eemove when sufficiently dry and put away with care. Barberries may be had without stones, but should there be any they must be removed before commencing to dry them. Cost of berries, 4d. to 6d. per pint. Barberries, To Pickle, for Garnish- ing.—Gather the clusters before they are fully ripe; carefully pick off any unsound or very rq)e berries, and lay the remainder in bottles. Cover them with a strong brine, made by boil- ing a quarter of a pound of salt with each pint of water, and add a small nut of alum to the whole. The brine must not be put over the fruit until it is quite cold. Store the bottle in a cool, dry place, and examine them occasion- ally. If at any time a scum should be observed on the surface, pour off the liquid, and put freshly-boiled brine in its place, made not quite so salt. Keep the jars closely covered. Time to boil the brine, ten minutes. Probable cost of barberries, 4d. to 6d. per pint. Barberries, To Preserve.—To every two pounds of fruit take four and a half pounds of powdered loaf sugar, throw some of it over the barberries to be preserved, and with the remainder make a strong sjTup in the proportion of a pint of water to a pound of sugar. Put the barberries into it, and make them boil as quickly as possible, that they may not lose colour; then fill the jars for use. Pro- bable cost, 4d. to 5d. per pint. Barberry Cream.—This pleasant sharp cream is made by mixing one pint of cream, half a pint of barberry jelly, and half an ounce of isinglass. Stir over a slow fire until the isinglass is dissolved. When removed from the fire add a little cochineal, if required. Sweeten to taste, beat to a froth, and pour into a mould to set. Probable cost, 3s. Sufficient for a large mould. Barberry Jam.—Take equal quantities of barberries and good finely-pounded sugar; heat gently and boU together ten minutes. Take off the scimi, and put it into pots, tied dovra. with thick paper. Proba'ile cost of barberries, from 4d. to 5d. per pint. Barberry Jelly. — The fruit should be quite ripe. Strip the berries, wash them in clear spring water, and put them into a jar with only the water that clings to them. Place the jar in a vessel of boiling water; cover the top of the jar, and in one hour they will be fit to strain. To every pound of juice put one pound and a quarter of sugar; boU quickly five minutes. Probable cost of barberries, 4d. to 6d per pint. Barberry Marmalade. — Take one pound of nice ripe barberries; boil, but do not crush them, in a quarter of a pint of cold water. When they are sufficiently soft remove them from the pan, and use the water, with enough fresh, to make a pint of sjTnip. IBoil it with a pound and a half of sugar; then put in the fruit and boU for fifteen minutes. Probable cost, 4d. to 6d. per pint.BAR (44) BAT Barberry Syrup for loe. — Make a 8yrup with oiio pound of j^ooJ Bugar and a pint of water, boiling it and removing the scum, for twenty minutes. Put in half a pound of lino ripe barberries and boil ton minutes. Lot it g(!t cold, and bottlo to use when lo quired. Proba])lo cost, 4d. to Gd. per pint. Barberry Water Ice. — Squeeze the juieo from half a dozen lemons and an orange, liub ott" the rind of three lemons on lumps of sugar. Mix these with a pint of clarified sugar, a half pint of water, and enough Ijarberry syrup to flavour. Strain and freeze. This ice may bo made of lemon water ice, mixed with bar- berry syrup. _ Time, twenty-five minutes to freeze. Sufficient for one quart. Barley Gruel.—The colour and taste of gruel is much improved by washing the seeds and throwing oft" the first water after it has boiled a few minutes. Boil three ounces of pearl barley in a pint of water for ten minutes, then thi-ow it oflE and put to it two quarts of boiling water. When reduced one half it will be sufficiently boiled. Strain, add sugar, lemon- peel, or wine to taste, and simmer for a few minutes. Barley Meal Scones.—The preparation of these wholesome cakes is a very simple pro- cess. The barley meal, with the addition of salt to taste, should be mixed with hot milk till it forms a thick paste. EoU out thin and cut into scones. Bake in a quick oven or on a griddle over a bright fire. They should be but- tered and eaten hot. Barley Soup or Broth.—Put two sheeps' heads, or two or three pounds of shin of beef, in a gallon of water. Add a tea-cupful of pearl barley, three large onions cut small, a small bunch of parsley, a few potatoes sliced, a little thyme, and pepper and salt to taste. Simmer gently for three or four hours, and frequently stir it to prevent the meat from burning. It should not be allowed to boil. Probable cost, 6d. per quart. Barley Sugar.—Dissolve lump sugar, boO. and skim it until it is crisp and clear, and no scum rises; test the crispness by dropping some into cold water. Flavour with lemon-juice or essence of lemon. Pour the sugar on a slate, stone, or marble slab, which has been rubbed over with butter or salad-oil; cut it into strips before it is cold, and twist. If marked with a knife it will break easily, and may be made into any form. Time, ten to fifteen minutes. Sugar, 4d. per pound. Barley Sugar Drops.—Prepare as di- rected for barley sugar in preceding recipe, but let the syrup fall in drops on the marble slab, and when cold throw pounded sugar over them to dry up any moisture. Barley Water.—Take two ounces of pearl barley, wash it well, and boil for ten minutes in a little water to clear it. When drained put to it five pints of boiling water, and let it boil until reduced to one half. Then strain for use. An excellent pectoral drink is made by boiling the barley as above, and adding tlie following ingredients: half an ounce of licorice root, sliced and well bruised; two ounces of figs, the same of raisins, stoned ; distilled water, one l)int, to one (piart of tlie jinspared barley water. Lot all boil till tlie licjuid is reduced to two pints, then strain for use. If used freely tills jireparation will be found very efficacious in eases of inflammatoiy attacks of the chest, coughs, &c. Probable cost, 4d, per pint. Barm, To Make.—To an ounce of isin- glass di88(jlved in warm wat<3r mix half a pound of the best flour. Take two ounces <jf hops, and boil in a quart of water tiU it is reduced one Imlf, then stir altogether in a gallon and a half of warm water and a very small quantity of barm, as made by brewers of it, and put in a warm place for two days. Probable cost, Is.4d. Basket, Chantilly. — This basket ia pretty, but skill is required to make it success- fully. Make a cement of sugar boiled to crackling height. Dip the edge of some macaroons into it, and line a mould shaped CHANTILLY BASKET. like a basket with them, taking care that the edges of the macaroons touch each other. When wanted take it out of the mould, fill it with whipped cream, and it is then ready for table. Time, two or three hours to set. Cost for quart mould, exclusive of cream. Is. 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Bath Buns.—Put one pound of flour into a pan, and make a hole in the centre, into which pour one table-spoonful of yeast and 'one cui)ful of milk, slightly warmed. Mix these together with a little of the flour, and leave it near the fire to rise. Dissolve six ounces of butter, and beat up four eggs ; add this to the sponge, and knead all together. The dough must be again allowed to rise; and when it has well risen, which will be in about an hour, put small balls of this mixture on a well-greased oven-tin two or three inches apart. This dough being light, it will fall into the required shape. Sprinkle loaf sugar on the top, or brush the buns over with a mixture of egg and milk. Five or six caraway comfits and lemon or citron-peel may be added. Bake in a moderate oven. Bath Chap, To Cook.—The excellence of this well-prepared meat depends greatly on the soaking and boiling. If these be not properly attended to, it -will be hard and unsatisfactory. Lay it in a pail of cold water, skin down- wards, and let it remain one night. _ Scrub the chap with a small brush to cleanse it: putBAT BAT it into plenty of cold water to boU; make it como to a boil quickly, and then draw the pan aside to simmer. Time to simmer, from two to three hours, according to size. Skin, and gai-nish with any boiled green vegetable. Pro- bable cost, 9d. per pound. Bath Cream Cheese.—To any quantity of milk, warm from the cow, add a third of the quantity of warm water, a pint of cream, and about two table-spoonfuls of rennet to each three gallons of milk; cover it over and let it stand. When turned, break the curd with the hand, and put it in a cheese-cloth on a sieve to drain off the whey ; take it out, wash it in cold spriug water, and again drain. This must be done three times; the third and last time, in order to get rid of the whey effectually, hot water should be used, and the curd should then be drained and put into the press for six or eight hours. Probable cost of the milk and cream, 2s. per gallon. Batley Pudding.—Mix three ounces of finely-powdered sugar with the yolks of three eggs and the white of one, well beaten. Blanch and pound fifteen almonds, and add them to the eggs with a table-spoonful of brandy. BoU two ounces of ground rice with half a pint of cream; let it stand to cool, then stir in two ounces of clarified butter, and mix all together. Bake in a moderate oven for thirty minutes. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Batter.—This signifies a mixture of flour and milk or water. The addition of eggs, yeast, spirits, &c., depends on the various uses to which it is applied. Many novel, well-flavoured bat- ters maybe made by the introduction of liqueurs, such as ratafia, noyeau, maraschino, or brandy; but they should be used with judgment, and only enough to give the desired flavour. Small slices of meat, cold cooked vegetables, such as caiTOts and celery, joints of fowl, &c., are all excellent fried in butter, and many seemingly useless remnants may be dressed again in tliis way, in a pleasing shape, and used to ornament and accompany other dishes. Batter Cakes of Indian Meal.—Make a batter by mixing gradually one quart of boil- ing water with the same quantity of meal; add a little salt and leave it until nearly cold. Add a little yeast, form into cakes, and prepare in the usual way, that is to say, fried over a clear quick fire. The yolk of an egg is a great improve- ment to the cakes. Time to fry each cake, five or 8ix_ minutes. Probable cost, 8d. per pound. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Batter, French.—Melt an ounce of butter by pouring over it about an eighth of a pint of boihng water, and again cool it by means of three-quarters of a pint of cold water. Mix it gradually and smoothly with six ounces of dried flour. A very little pinch of salt must be put to the batter if it is for fruit, but it will require more if the fritters are savoury ones. If the batter be too thick, put a little more water, and when all is ready beat up the white of an egg to a froth, and stir it into the batter. This forms an excellent batter for apple, peach, or orange fritters. Probable (Mtt, Cd. Batter for Frying Meat, Fish, Fruit, and Vegetables.—To four ounces of flour add a gill of lukewarm water, a pinch of salt, and two table-spoonfuls of salad oil. Let the mixture stand awhile, and, before using, dash in the whites of two eggs whisked till firm. Batter Fritters.—Make a batter according to recipe given for batter pudding. When ready, ])eel, core, and mince some apples, or if pre- ferred, a few currants may be picked and thrown into the batter. The addition of a little suet to the apples is an improvement, but it must be very judiciously used, as too much will make the fritters greasy. They should be made small. A large table-spoonful of batter is suffi- cient for one fritter. Fry in boiling dripping, and serve with powdered sugar over them. Probable cost, 9d. Time to fry, eight to ten minutes. Sufficient for six persons. Batter, Italian. Fried.—Mix and beat up two eggs with half a pint of French wine or cider and a little orange-flower water. Add this, with two table-spoonfuls of the best Lucca oil, to three-quarters of a poimd of flour and a tea- spoonful of salt. Blend the batter with a spoon until it is like a smooth cream. It should be made an hour or two before wanted, and the frothed whites of two or three eggs sliould be lightly added to it at the time of use. Batter Pudding, Baked. — Separate the yolks from the whites of four eggs, beat them well separately, and throw them in a basin together; then mix them very gradually with six or eight ounces of flour, and a pinch or two of salt. Make the batter of the proper con- sistency by adding little more than a pint of good milk. Bake in a buttered dish for three-quarters of an hour in a quick oven. This pudding is much improved by careful mixing. If the eggs, flour, and milk are not well blended together the pudding is often a failure. Pro- bable cost, 7d. or 8d. Sufficient for four or Ave persons. Batter Pudding, Baked, and Apples. —Put one pound of apples peeled, quartered, and cored into a weU-buttered dish, and throw over them enough sweet batter to fill it. Add a little pounded clove or grated lemon, and bake in a tolerably brisk oven. The apples will rise to the surface. When quite done, but before removing it from the oven, put on some small bits of butter, and sprinkle sugar thickly over the top. Any kind of fruit may be used for these puddings. Time to bake, one hour or more. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Batter Pudding, Boiled. — Get one ounce of melted butter. Mix three table-spoon- fuls of flour with a little milk, and thin it to a proper consistency with the rest of a pint, using it very gradually, that the batter may be quite smooth. Stir in the butter in its dissolved state, and keep moving the batter while three eggs, which have been well beaten, are added. A pinch of salt must not be emitted. Put the mixture into a well-buttered basin; tie a cloth over it, and put it to boil at once, or the batter wiU settle at the bottom. It wiU tak« one hour(46) BEA and a quarter, and should bo moved in the muicopuu fur a few minuto.s after it is put to boil. Probable cost, 7d. Sufficient for live or six persons. Beans, Broad or Windsor {k la Pou- lettii).—Boil one quart of youufj^ broad beans over a quick fire until nearly done; then put them into a stowpan Avith sweet herbs very finely cut, a little suf,'ar, half a pint of stock; pepper and salt at discretion. Before bcf^inninf? to stow see that the beans are well drained from the water in which they wore boiled. Stew until half the liquor is absorbed, and just as they are on the point of simmering beat up the yolk of an egg with a quarter of a pint of cream, and add it to them. Time, ten minutes to boil; fifteen to stew. Probable cost, from 6d. to 8d. per peck. Sufficient for five or six persons. Beans, Broad or Windsor, Mashed. —This is the only way in which old beans may be cooked to advantage. They should be first boiled in the ordinary way fully half an hour, by which time the skins will have burst, and they may be easily removed. Mash them with the back of a wooden spoon until quite smooth, then put them back into the stewpan with a little sugar, butter, pepper, and salt. Warm up, and then press them into a buttered mould. The mould should be hot and kept hot until ready to serve ; then turn out. Probable cost, 6d. per peck. Suffi- cient for six or seven persons. Beans, Broad or Windsor,To Stew. —Have ready a good rich brown gravy. Cut up some small onions, chives, and parsley; throw them into the gravy and simmer for ten minutes before the beans are put in. Sprinkle a quart of beans with two tea-spoonfuls of salt, one of pepper, and one of sugar, mix together and put them into the gravy. Stir the beans gently over a slow fire till the gravy is absorbed by them. In ten minutes serve them up. Pro- bable cost, 6d. a peck. Sufficient for a dish. Beans, Broad or Windsor, with Ham or Bacon.—This is a very popular dish. The beans must be boiled separately and not ^vith the ham. They should be young, and only shelled just before cooking. Put them into boiling water with a little salt, boil very quickly, drain, and pour parsley sauce over them. Place the ham on the beans. Time, fifteen to twenty minutes to boil. Probable cost, 6d. to 8d. per peck. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Beans, French or Kidney —Choose fine young beans, and be careful that they are the right sort. The best kind are the case- knife, because they have no strings, and are consequently all eatable, and need only be broken in two, not cut. Should these not be obtainable, take the youngest that can be pro- cured : remove the thread or string that runs along the back of the pod, then cut them in a slanting direction lengthways in very thin slices, throw them into boiling water well salted, and to preserve their colour boil without the lid of the saucepan. "When tender, drain in a co- lander, put a sinall piece of butter and a dash of popper, and give the whole a shake. Home cooks add a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, but we do not think this an improvement. This dish may bo varied in a great many ways, and with great success. Cold French beans with oil and vinegar make an excellent and refreshing salad. They may also, when cooked and dmined, be mixed with some good brown gravy, and served alone as a course after the moat. Beans, French (a la Fran(,-aiBe). —Cut and boil one pound of French beans; drain well and put them into a stewpan over the fire to dry or absorb the moisture; shake the pan that they may not burn. Wlien quite free from the water add three ounces of fresh butter, tlie juice of half a lemon, pepper, salt, and a table- spoonful of good gravy. Keep shaking the stewpan until the beans are quite hot, and serve quickly. Time, quarter of an hour to boil; ten minutes to stew. Probable cost, from 2d. to 4d. per poimd. Sufficient for two persons. Beans, French (a la Maitre d'Hotel).— Prepare and boil one pound of beans in the usual manner; see that they are well drained from the water. Keep them hot, and when dry put them into a stewpan with two ounces of melted butter, half a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, a little salt, and a tea-spoonful of lemon- juice. Shake the pan over a brisk fire, mix well, and serve hot in eight minutes. Sufficient for two persons. Beans, French (a la ProvenQale).—Brown some slices of onion with oil instead of butter; make them of a light brown, and add some French beans that have been prepared and boiled in the ordinary way, with chopped pars- ley, thyme, chives, and bay-leaf. As soon as the vegetables are done, remove them on to a dish; put a little vinegar into the pan, boil up and throw over the beans. If ofl. be disliked, fry the onions in butter, and add gravj' instead of vinegar. The jviice of a lemon is sometimes preferred. Beans, French, Boiled.—Only the ends and stalks require to be taken off when the beans are very young, and no mode of cooking can make veiy old ones eatable. Put them as they are prepared into cold water. They are cut according to taste lengthwise into thin strips or obliquely into a lozenge form. Tho strings should be drawn off with the tops and stalks when they are come to their proper growth. Put them into a large saucepan of boiling water, slightly salted, allow the steam to escape, and keep boiling very fast until tender. Time, fifteen minutes if young; twenty to twenty-five minutes if old. Probable cost, 2d. to 4d. per pound. Beans, French (Haricots verts).—Boil and drain the beans in the usual way, and put them into a stewpan with some butter thickened - with flour. Add chopped parsley, thjnnfr, chives, &c., and a small cupful of stock; season to taste with salt and pepper. Stew for some time, then thicken with two eggs well beaten up with a little milk or cream, and serve quickly. A little lemon-juice may also be added. Time to(4?) stew, ten minutes. Probable cost, from 2d. to 4d. por pound. Beans, Frenchj Omelet of. — Cut up two table-spoonfuls oi French beans into small pieces, and stir them into four eggs which have been previously beaten; next add two table- spoonfuls of grated Parmesan, or any other mild cheese, and pepper and salt to taste. When thoroughly mixed, put the whole into a delicately clean omelet-pan with two ounces of butter, and fry a pale brown. Probable cost, 9d. Time, three to five minutes. Sufficient for three or four persons. Beans, French, Pickled.—Beans are seldom pickled alone, but are classed imder the head of mixed pickles. They may be put into a jar with gherkins, cauliflowers, radish-pods, capsicimis, onions, &c. As they are gathered young, the strings, a bit of the stalk, and the pointed ends are left on. Cover them with a strong brine of salt and water for two days, then wipe and put them into a jar. BoU one quart of vinegar with two ounces of peppercorns and half an ounce of mace; pour it over hot, and when quite cold cover. The pickle will be the better if the vinegar be re-boiled in twenty- four hours, and again thrown boiling over it. Probable cost of vinegar and spice. Is. Beans, French, Pickled (another way). —The beans should be gathered young. Place them in a strong brine of salt and water. When turning yellow, which wUl be in a day or two, remove them and wipe dry. Boil the vinegar with a little mace, whole pepper, and ginger (two ounces of pepper and half an ounce each of ginger and mace to each quart of vinegar); pour this over the beans. A small bit of alum, or a tea-spoonful of carbonate of potash, will bring back their colour. Cover them to keep in the steam and re-boil the vinegar the next day; throw over hot as before. Cover, but do not tie down until quite cold. Probable cost. Is. 3d. per quart. Beans, French, Pudding of .—Slip oflE the outer shell from French beans, either before or after they are boiled, and pound them in a mortar with pepper and salt to taste. Boil them in a buttered and well-floured cloth for half an hour. The cloth should be tied lightly to give them room to swell. This pudding looks better when put in a mould. Squeeze out aU the water from the cloth, put the beans into a plain shape, press them down very closely, and let the pudding stand a few minutes. Put a hot dish over the mould and turn the pudding out. Time, fifteen to twenty minutes to boil. Pro- bable cost, 2d. to 4d. per pound. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Beans, French, Salad of.—Take cold beans which have been well drained from the water. Saturate them with vinegar, and let them lie in it for twenty minutes. Drain again, and add some oil, if liked, and a little pepper and salt. Beans may be eaten with any saJad sauce. Beans, French, To Stew.—This is an excellent accompaniment to venison, veal, or any other cutlets. The beans should be cut, boiled. and drained according to recipe given for boiled beans. Then take a rich brown gravy, well flavoured with pepper and salt, put it into a stewpan, and when hot add the beans and simmer over a slow fire. Shake the pan to prevent them from burning, and serve in fifteen minutes. The cutlets may be put in the centre, or they may be served on the beans and gravy. Probable cost, 2d. to 4d. per pound. Beans, French, with Gravy.—Dis- solve four ounces of butter in a pan, and stir into it three ounces of flour till it becomes brown and quite smooth. Mix a little gravy and season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Take any quantity of this; souse and simmer the beans, previously boiled, for twenty minutes. Probable cost, 2d. to 4d. per pound. Allow one quart, for six or seven persons. Beans, Haricot (a la Bretonne).—Put some butter into a stewpan with chopped onion and a Httle flour. Brovra, but do not blacken the butter ; pour in a little broth, or water. Stir till it is slightly thick, and season with salt and pepper. Put in the haricots already cooked and boiled; sunmer them about twenty minutes in the broth and serve hot. Probable cost, 4d. to 6d. per quart. Allow one quart for six or seven persons. Beans, Haricot, Dried.—Soak the beans for twelve hours in soft water. Put them, when drained, into a saucepan of cold water without salt, and when half cooked change the water and replace it with warm water and a little salt. When done remove the lid to allow the beans to dry. Time to boil, about two hours. Probable cost, 4d. to 6d. per quart. Allow one quart for six or seven persons. Beans, Haricot, Dried (another way). —Soak one quart of haricot beans for two hours in cold water. Pour o£E the soaking water; put them into two quarts of water with a large table-spoonful of salt. Let them simmer until soft and mealy, then drain. Put them back into the saucepan with two ounces of butter, and seasoning of pepper and salt. Shake them until the butter is well melted and the beans hot through, and serve quickly. Time, from two to two and a half hours. Probable cost, 4d. to 6d. per quart. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Beans, Haricot, Plain Boiled. — Sprinkle over one quart of haricot beans, pre- viously boiled, tw^o table-spoonfuls of chopped parsley, and put them with two ounces of butter into a stewpan. Let them get thoroughly heated; shake the pan, and in about fifteen minutes serve in a hot vegetable dish. Pro- bable cost, 4d. to 6d. per quart. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Bechamel, Maigre.—Use milk and water instead of the stock made with animal juices. Blend one ounce of flour with one ounce of butter. Sinuner for twenty minutes the follow- ing ingredients in one pint of milk with half the quantity of water and a little salt: two or three small mushrooms, a few sprigs of parsley, two onions, and a blade of mace. ♦ When it haa(48) boiled long enough to give the desired flavour, ati-tiin and put it iiguia into the atowpan with the flour and butter, keeping it stirred until perfectly smooth, then strain it again. Some cooks mix lemon-juice and yolks of eggs with I3echamel in order to enrich it. They accomplish their object and make the sauce richer, but they destroy its distinctive chiu-acter, for by these additions they produce not Bechamel, but Alle- mande Sauce. Cost, about 6d. per pint. Bechamel, or French White Sauce. —As white stock is the foundation for this sauce it must be prepared first. Boil down an old fowl, two or three pounds of the knuckle of veal, and three of very loan ham, with the white parts of four carrots, two onions, one blade of mace, some white peppercorns, two table-spoonfuls of salt, and an ounce of butter, in four or five quarts of water. Cut up the fowl and veal, and put them with the ham to simmer, in a small quantity of water, till the juices are extracted; then throw in the fuU quantity of water, about tlireo and a half quarts to the other ingredients. Let the liquid simmer from four to five hours. Skim and strain till clear, when it is ready for the bechamel. Mix a table-spoonful of arrowroot with a pint of cream, and when well blended let it simmer in a carefully-cleaned pan for four or five minutes. Make one pint of the stock hot and pour it to the cream ; simmer slowly for ten minutes or until it thickens. If two thick add a little stock. Time, two hours. Probable cost, Is. per pint. Bechamel, or French White Sauce (another way).—Take one quart of good white stock, put it into a stewpan with an onion, a few mushrooms, a sprig of thyme, parsley, a blade of mace, and a little salt; boil tUl it has extracted the flavour of the herbs, and the stock is reduced to about half—then strain. Put one pint of thick or double cream into a clean stewpan, mix the reduced stock very gradually with it, and stir all the time until it thickens over a slow fire. If the ordinary thin cream be used mix a table- spoonful of arrowroot very smoothly into it, and simmer slowly five minutes before adding it to the stock. Time, about two hours. Pro- bable cost, about Is. 2d. per piut. Bechamel, or French White Sauce (another way).—Melt an ounce of butter in a saucepan, and noix an ounce of fiour with it. Add half a pint of white stock or water, a small carrot, three button mushrooms, and an ounce of lean ham. Stir the sauce till it boils, draw it back and simmer gently for twenty minutes. Skim off the fat, strain the sauce, boil it again, and add a quarter of a pint of cream. These quantities will make three-quarters of a pint of sauce. Beef.—Beef is considered by many the best and most wholesome, as it is certainly the most economical moat that can be purchased for family use. It is in season all the year round, though it can be had in perfection in winter only, because then the joints can be hung until the meat is quite tender. The heart, head, sweetbreads, and kidneys should always be used fresh. Ox beef is the best: the flesh is smoothly grained and rather open; if the animal is young it rises when pressed with tlie finger. The lean is of a bright red colour, and the fat white rather than yellow. Very lean beef is always of inferior quality, wliilht very fat l)eef is objectionable because it in so wasteful. Heifer beef is the best for small families : the grain ia closer, the coloui- jjaler, SECTIONAL DIAQBAM OF THE OX. A Rump. B Mouse Buttock, c Leg, or Hock. D Buttock, or Eound. E Aitchbone, or Top. F Sirloin. G Fore Eibs. H Middle Eibs. I Chuck Eibs. J Neck, Clod, or Stick- ing Piece. K Shin. L Shoulder, or Leg of Mutton Piece. M Brisket. N Thin Flank, o Thick Flank, p Veiny Piece. and the fat whiter than ox beef. Bull beef is dark in colour, with a coarse grain, very little fat, and a strong, meaty smell. It should never be chosen. If beef is to be tender the joints should be hung as long as the weather will permit. In summer time they should be examined everj' day, and any moisture that may arise should be scraped off. Beef that is to be roasted should not be washed unless it is quite necessary. If any part has been touched with flies it may be rubbed with a cloth which has been dipped in vinegar, then dried quickly. Powdered charcoal rubbed over the meat will restore it if shghtly tainted. Before hanging the joints care should be taken to remove the soft cord which runs dowTi the bone of the sirloin and ribs, and to trim off allBEE ( 49 ) SEE Buperfliious fat. An ox is usually cut up and di't'ssod as follows:— SiKLoiN. Pi-imo roasting joint. The chimxp end is the finest part, as it contains the largest portion of the undercut or tillet. Excellent steaks may be cut from this fillet, and are considered by some superior to rump steak. The sirloin siiould bo hung as long as pos- sible before it is cooked. Two sirloias ciit together form a baron of beef. Price j)er pound, 1b. to Is. Id. Rump. Upper part or chump end roasted. Lower or silver side salted and boiled. Middle part cut into steaks. Price per pound, lid. to Is.; steak, Is. 3d. to Is. 6d. Aitchbone. Salted and boiled or stewed, some- times roasted. Price per pound, TJd. to S^d. Buttock ok Eound. Boiled, stewed, or cut into steaks. The upper side if hung for a few days makes an excellent and econo- mical roasting joint. Price per pound, lOd. to lid. Mouse Kound, Boiled or stewed. Price per pound, lOd. to lid. Veiny Piece, Steaks. Inferior in quality to the rump. Price per pound, lid. to ll^d. Thick Flank. Fine boiling piece. Price per pound, lOd. to lid. Thin Flank. Boiled. This part is excellent when boned, rolled, and pressed. Price per pound, 8d. Leg. Stewed, and good for soup. Price per poimd, 4d. to 9d. FoKE Ribs (five ribs). Roasted. Prime roasting part. Price per pound, lOd. to Is. Middle Ribs (four ribs). Economical roasting part. Price per pound, lOd. Chuck Ribs (three ribs). Steaks. Second quality. Price per pound, lOd. Shoulder or Leg ov Mutton Piece. Boiled or stewed. Price per pound, lOd. to lid. Brisket. Boiled or stewed. Excellent when salted and pressed. Price per pound, 7d. to 8d. Clod. Boiled or stewed. Used in making gravy. Price per pound, 6d. to 9d. Neck. Soups, gravies, &c. Price per poimd, 5d. to 8d. Shin. Soups and gra\'ies. Also for stewing. Price per pound, 4d. to 9d. Cheeks. Brawn, soup, &c. Price per* pound, 4jd. Tail. Soup. Stewed. Each, Is. 3d. to 2s. 9d. Tongue. Salted and boiled. Each, 5s. to 6s. Heels. Stewed for jeUy and stock. Each, 9d. to Is. Liver. Stewed and fried. Price per pound, 5d. Besides these there is the Palate, which is stewed or fried; the Heart, which is stuffed and roasted; the Sweetbreads and Tripe, which is cooked in various ways; and the Skirt, which makes rich gravy. ' Purchase the best meat and the best joints, they are the most economical in the end. The quality of beef depends on so many circum- stances that the surest way to get it good is to I buy of one respectable butcher whose word may be depended on. The following direc- tions are given for the benefit of those who require them; they do not belong to any particular moats, those will be treated on in thoir proper places:—While cooking, keep a good fire and place the meat rather near it at first. After a short time, varying from ten to fifteen minutes, draw the joint back, and let it cook steadily. Baste often ; a great deal depends on this. Inexperienced cooks think they have done all that is necessaiy when they have put it before the fire, and given it the prescribed time; but without frequent basting the meat wiU be dry and indigestible. Although the greatest care has been taken to give correctly the time required for cooking the various dishes, it must be re- membered that it is impossible to give it exactly to suit each case, because so many circumstances tend to vary it, such as the age of the animal, the time the meat has been kept after being killed, the state of the weather, the cooking apparatus used, and the quality of the fuel. The average only has been taken, and this being understood, common sense must make allowance for the rest. It will be an assistance to remem- ber that freshly-killed meat requires more time than that which has been kept, and also that meat needs cooking rather longer in cold weather than in hot. Beef, Aitchbone of, Salted.—Most persons roast this joint, but we think it far superior salted and boiled according to the following recipe:—Take a piece of beef, say ten pounds, and rub into it a mixture com- pound of three-quarters of a pound of salt, one ounce of dark moist sugar, and half an ounce of saltpetre. Turn the meat each day, and rub the pickle well in every time. Keep it in this condition four or five days, when it will be found salt enough for most people. When wanted for use, put it into a large saucepan, with enough boiling water to cover, let it boil, then draw back, and simmer gently for two hours and a half. " If," says Dr. Kitchiner, it boils too quickly at first, no art can make it tender afterwards; the slower it boils the better." Carrots, turnips, and suet-dumplings are the proper accompaniments to this dish. The soft, marrow-Hke fat at the back of the joint should be eaten when it is hot, the hard fat left until the joint is served- cold. The liquor in which the beef is boiled should not be thrown away, it will make excellent j^ea- soup. Probable cost, 7^d. to 8^d. per pound. Sufiicient for eight or nine persons. Beef, Aitchbone of. To Carve.—In carving an aitchbone of beef it is necessary that it should be cut across the graia. In order to AITCHBONE OP BEEF. do this the knife should follow the line from a to B in the above illustration. The moat shouldBEE Bee ( 60) be cut of a moderate thicknoas, and very evenly. Cut the lean and the fat in one slico, and if more fat is desired it sliould bo taken liorizon- tally from the side. Jioforo proceeding to servo, a slice of about a quarter of an incli in thick- ness should be cut from the top, so that the juicy part of the moat may be obtained at once. Beef (u la Braise).—Hang a rump of beef for tivo or six days; remove the bone, and lard it freely with small pieces of ham or bacon, rolled in a seasoning comi)osnd of an onion minced very fine, a little garlic, thyme, parsley, pepper, and suit. After the ham or bacon has been rolled in the seasoning, add to what is left of the latter a pint of vinegar, a pint of port wine, and a tea-spoonful of salad-oil. Steep the beef in this mixture for one night. Before cooking, wrap it in paper, and roast it on a cradle spit, basting it well all the time it is before the fire. Serve with brown gravy thickened, and garnish withhorse-radish scraped, and boiled carrots. Some cooks also add a little lemon-juice, and slices of pickled cucumber. Probable cost of beef, lid. to Is. per pound. Beef I'Ecarlate).—Prepare a pickle ac- cording to the following instructions:—Take a small quantity of sweet herbs, crushed juniper- berries, basil, pepper, cloves, and saltpetre (the latter in proportion to the quantity of meat, say one ounce to every four or five pounds of beef), six oimces of salt, and two ounces of sugar. Rub this mixture into a piece of rump of beef, weighing five or six pounds, and put it into a salting-pan, where it should remain eight days, during which time it must be frequently turned. Soak the meat for two hours in cold water before using. Tie it up in a clean cloth, and put it into a stewpan, in which has been previously placed equal parts of Burgundy and water, with a few carrots, onions, parsley, and chives. Simmer for five or six hours. When cold, pour a little of the liquor it has been stewed in round the dish, and serve. Pro- bable cost for five pounds, 7s. 6d. Sufiicient for seven or eight persons. Beef (a la Houssard).—Remove all bones and gristle from a piece of beef, of about four pounds weight, beat it with a rolling- pin, and lard it with ham or bacon. Lay it, with a seasoning of chopped onion, pepper, and salt, iuto a stewpan with a tight-fitting cover, and put it into an oven, or by the side of the fire, and let it steam in its ovra gravy. Take care that it does not bum, because, as there is no water it will be liable to do so unless care- fully attended to. With a strong heat it wiU be ready in two or three hours, and will be found excellent. To be served with the gravy from the meat. Cost of meat, lOd. per pound. Sufiicient for six or seven persons. Beef (a la Mode), No. 1.—Any fleshy part of beef or veal will do for this dish; but, of course, the finer the meat is the better will be the stew. A piece of the rimip or buttock of beef we should consider most suitable; of veal, either the fillet or the gristly part of the breast. About six or seven pounds is the usual quantity prepared. Rub the meat well with some mixed spice, salt, and a little flour, and put it in a stewpan, into which ha* been previously plac(;d souie thin slices of streaked bacon. As it is desiraljle tlutt the bacon sliould not touch the bottom of the stew- pan, it would be better to place a few skewers in it for the bacon to rest on. Cover the meat also with slices of bacon, some good gravy, a])Out a i)int and a half, and a httlo vinegar. Stew very gently for two hours, then add a seasoning of cloves, mace, pepper, muahroomb, and a dozen small onions, half roasted. Cover the saucepan tightly down, and simmer until tender. Put the meat in a deep dish, strain the gravy over it, and serve very hot. Should veal be used, the mushrooms should be omitted, and lemon-peel substituted. Time to simmer, from three to four hours. Sufiicient for seven or eight persons. Beef (a la Mode), No. 2.—Take eight or ten poimds of beef (the rump or buttock), or the same weight of a breast of veal. Divide it into neat pieces of three or four ounces in weight. Put it into a large stewpan with four ounces of good beef dripping; but first make the dripping hot, and flour the meat. Add a couple of large onions, minced very fine, dredge flour, and stir with a wooden spoon for about ten minutes, or imtil the contents of the pan be thick; then pour in about one gallon of water. Do this gradually, stirring all together. Bring it to a boil; then skim, and add one drachm of ground black pepper, two of allspice, and two bay-leaves. Set the pan where it will stew gently for about three hours. When the meat is tender, serve. Sufficient for ten or twelve persons. Beef (a la Mode), No. 3.—Make a forcemeat of a French roll steeped in milk, half a poimd of chopped veal, and six oysters. Remove the bone from a rump of beef, and fill up the hole with the forcemeat. Roast the meat before a clear fire for an hour, take it off the jack, insert in the top some dried and pickled mushrooms, adding mushroom powder to the forcemeat. Put it in a stewpan with two quarts of stock, a large onion stuck with cloves, and two carrots cut in slices. Stew until the beef is tender. Put the meat on a dish; thicken and strain the sauce, add to it more mushrooms, a glass of sherry, oysters,- and sippets of fried bread. Pour it over the beef, garnish with a few warmed gherkins, and serve. Time to stew a piece of beef five inches thick, five to six hours. Probable cost. Is. per pound. Sufficient for seven or eight persons. Beef (a la Mode), No. 4. Bath Recipe.— Take three povmds of beef (any part wUl do, but the rump is the best), cut away all fat, and trim nicely. Take a few cloves, a tea-spoonful of black pepper, a blade of mace, and a salt-spoonful of allspice. Poimd them thoroughly, and add liaH a small tea-spoonful of cayenne pepper, some minced sweet herbs, and shalot. Put these ingredients into a dish, pre- viously rubbed with garlic, and cover them with vinegar. Cut fat bacon into long strips, and lard the beef, on both sides if necessary, first dipping each strip of bacon into the vinegar, and well covering them with the seasoning. PutBEE ( oi ) BEE tho meat into a baking-pan, with the remainder of tho herbs and spice, a bit of butter rolled in Hour, and one pint of water. Cover the top of tho pan, and bake in an oven. When tender, strain tho gnivy, and serve the beef with pickles on the top. It makes an excellent cold dish, but should be served hot with the gravy at first. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Sufficient for five or six persona. Beef la Mode), No. 5. French Recipe. —Take a large, fiat stewpan, and put into it two ounces of good butter. When the butter begins to froth, add a table-spoonful of flour, and stir until the two are well mixed and of a fine golden colour. Next lay in a piece of rump of beef, or any other tender part, three pounds in weight. Fry gently, being verj' careful that the meat does not stick to the pan. Add by degrees a pint of rich stock, well flavoured with carrots, savoury herbs, onions, bay-leaves, salt, and pepper. When preferred, the vege- tables may be put in whole, instead of merely flavouring the gravy with them, and they look very nice when used to garnish the meat. In France, they greatly increase the quantity of vegetables by adding tomatoes, when in season, small cucumbers, mushrooms, and green peas. Veal dressed this way, with the addition of new potatoes, is excellent, and is generally preferred to beef. Time to stew, four or five hours. Probable cost, 4s. Sufficient for four or five persons. Beef (a la Mode), or Brazilian Stew. Dip some pieces of beef, cut from the shm, about three ounces in weight each, in vinegar, and place them in a stewpan (without any water) on a very slow fire. Let them gradually get hot. In about three hours it will be found that the meat has yielded sufficient gravy, and will be exceedingly tender. Add a dessert-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, a table- spoonful of port or claret, and haK a tea-spoonful of brown thickening (or, failing this, a smaU piece of butter, about the size of a walnut, rolled in flour, with a little salt and cayenne). Simmer a few minutes longer, and serve. Probable cost, 7d. per pound. Sufficient for three or four persons. Beef (a la Polonaise).—Mix some bread- crumbs with minced onion, a little butter, pepper, and salt. Get a piece of beef, about four or five pounds, trim neatly, and insert the above stuffing into incisions" made in the meat. These incisions should not be through, or the forcemeat wiU fall out into the stew- pan. Put the meat into a stewpan, with a little butter and very little water, and stew until tender. Thicken the gravy with a tea-spoonful of brown thickening; or, faihng this, with a quarter of an oimce of butter rolled in flour. Time to stew, three hours. Probable cost, 4s. 6d. Beef, Australian {see Australian Beef). Beef, Bachelor's.—Take a nice piece of ribs, from eight to ten pounds, bone and tie it securely that it may not slip; pound about half a tea-spoonful of saltpetre, mix it with a little salt and rub it well into the meat. The next day pour over it a boiled pickle which has been allowed to get cold. Keep it in this from six to eight days. Wash, tie in a cloth, and boil from an hour and a half to two hours, according to the weight. Bring it to the boil and then simmer only. Serve with carrots. Probable cost. Is. per pound. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Beef, Bachelor's, Stew.—Take a piece of meat weighing from three to four pounds. If beef, from the rump, fillet, or buttock, or a fiUet of veal of the same weight; pepper and brown the meat in a stewpan, using a small quantity of good butter. Cut up two or three carrots into thick slices, remove the white parts of them with an apple-corer, and place them on the top of the meat. Then add three-quarters of a pint of water, and cover up tightly to sim- mer over a very slow fire. The main point to be observed is to keep the lid of the stewpan so closed that no steam may escape. In about three-quarters of an hour turn the meat over, but still keep the carrots on the top, and add four or five small onions, a little mushroom ketchup, and salt, and cover again tight as before. Simmer on the side of the fire for another hour or more, but always observing to add a little boiling water if required. Veal may be served up with green peas, a little ham, and the juice and rind of a lemon. Time, from one hour and three-quarters to two hours. Suffi- cient for four persons. Average cost, 3s. 6d. Beef, Baked.—Take about two pounds of thin slices of cold roast beef, sprinkle over them a little salt and a dust of flour; roll them neatly up with a small portion of fat between each roll, and lay them in the bottom of a pie-dish. Slice two carrots and a turnip and parboil them; lay them with thinly-sliced onion and minced herbs over the meat, and pro- ceed with another layer of beef as before till all is used up. The vegetables should be next to the paste, and should be dusted over with pepper and salt. Mix a tea-spoonful of flour with about half a pint of good gravy, free from grease, and two or three table-spoonfuls of ale ; put this into the dish and bake three-quarters of an hour, covered with mashed potatoes or a crust if pre- ferred. Sufficient for fotir or five persons. Beef, Baron of, consists of both sides of the back, or a double sirloin, and weighing from thirty to one hundred pounds, according to the size of the animal. It is always roasted, but is now rarely prepared, except on particular festive occasions at the English Court, and at great public entertainments. It is generally accom- panied by a boar's head and other substantial viands. Beef, Boiled.—Put fresh beef into boiling water, bring it to a boil quickly, draw the pan back, and simmer gently till done, allowing fifteen minutes per pound, and fifteen minutes over. Salt beef should be put into lukewarm, not boiling water. Simmer from the time of boiling till it is served up. Skim the pot thoroughly, and turn the meat twice during the simmering. If vegetables are liked, carrots or turnips may be added, but they should only be put in long enough to get them properly cooked. The liquor will serve for pea-soup, and is useful to the cook in(62) BEE BEE vai-iouB wayH; the vogotablos boiled in it will have gruutly improved the flavour. The following: Ainorifau recipe for boiling salted moat will bo amusing and instructive :—Boil- ing Salted Mkat.—A well known American w-itor says, " 1 was once informed by an old patron how ho and his wife learned to cook corned beef." H j jaid, " that having to furnish a hasty meal for hhnsolf and his men, ho decided upon cooking a piece of corned beef. He pro- cm-ed a good-sized piece, and it was late before it began to boil. Having to watch the pot him- self, after a hjird day's work, ho resolved to have a nap, leaving the pot over a slow fire, luid tliinking he would be sui-e to wako up before it was done. When ho awoko he found that his beef must have simmered slowly until the fire went out. Expecting to find it in pieces, or else sodden and tasteless, he lifted the meat from the pot, and finding it almost cold, cut and tasted it. It was the most delicious piece he had ever eaten, and so thought all who tasted it. Since that time," he adds, " my corned beef, hams, tongues, or any kind of salted meat in- tended for boiling, is put over the fire early and left to boil slowly or simmer a long time, and after it is done the pot is lifted ofl: the fire, and the meat is allowed to cool in the pot from twenty minutes to half an hour. Following this plan we always have specially good meat, and so say all our friends who sit at our table to partake of it." Beef, Boiled, Italian Sauce for.— Dissolve one ounce of butter in a stewpan and stir into it one ounce of flour till it becomes a rich brown, then add one-eighth of an ounce of salt, the same of pepper, and half a gill of white French wine, previously reduced from one gill by boiling, and three-quarters of a pint of bouillon or broth. Boil fifteen minutes, and add three table-spoonfuls of fine herb sauce. Skim and serve. Sufiicient for one poimd and a half of beef. Beef Bones, Broiled.—There are few dishes more appetising than broiled bones, whether of beef, mutton, or poultry. Great attention should be given to the fire. If not ; clear the bones will be blackened and lose their nice delicate flavour. Divide them, if necessary, rub them with a little clarified butter, then with pepper, salt, and mustard, and broil over the fire for about five minutes. Serve alone or with sliced potatoes fried and very hot. Beef Brains (see Bullock's Brains). Beef, Braised, Rump (a la Jardiniere). —Eemove the bone from a piece of rump weighing about sixteen pounds, and trim and tie it into a nice shape. Simmer it for three hours in the stock-pot, and after well draining put it into a braising - pan, with a gravy made in the following manner:—Put three carrots, three onions, three shalots, three bay- leaves, and a sprig of thyme into a stewpan with a pint and a half of good rich gravy. Slice the vegetables and simmer untU the flavour is extracted and the gravy reduced to about one pint, then strain and add the best part of a pint of Marsala. Pour this gravy into the braising-Tian over tlie meat, simmer and baste constantly for two hours. Add half a pint of Spanish sauce; skim and strain into a tmvon to be served with the beef. Garnish with brussels sprouts, carrots, and cauliflowers; tho latter is best placed at the ends and sides of the dish, with carrots on each side of the cauli- flowers and the brussels sprouts to fill up the spaces between. Time to simmer, three hours; to braise, two hours. Probable cost, lid. to Is. per pound. Sufiicient for a remove. Beef, Braised, Rump, with Maca- roni.—Cook the beef as before directed, and boil some blanched macaroni in veal brotli. Drain it, and add some Spanish sauce and grated Parmesan cheese. Mix well and serve round the meat. Tomato sauce may be sent to table in a tureen. Time to boil the macaroni from fifteen to twenty minutes. Beef, Breslau. — Take three or four ounces of bread-crumbs, beat up three eggs and add them to the crumbs and a small cupful of good brown gravy; break throe ounces of butter into small pieces, and mix all together with half a tea-spoonful of salt, one tea-spoonful of grated lemon-peel, two table- spoonfuls of minced thyme and parsley, and a little cayenne. Wlien these ingredients are thoroughly mixed, take of roast beef, rather undercooked, from a half to three-quarters of a pound, mince it very finely, mix well with the forcemeat, and bake for half an hour in buttered coffee-cups. Turn out, and serve with egg-bails round the dish and gravy if liked. Probable cost, exclusive of meat, 8d. Sufiicient for a small dish. Beef, Brisket of. Stewed.—Take six pounds of beef, and, before di-essing it, rub it over with vinegar and salt; place it in a stew- pan with stock or water sufdcient to cover it. Allow it to simmer for an hour, skimming it well all the time. Put in (six each) carrots, turnips, and small onions; and allow all to simmer unto, the meat is quite tender, which will be in about other two hours. As soon as it is ready the bones should be removed. Boil for a few minutes as much of the gra'V'y as will be required with fiour and a little butter, and season it with ketchup, allspice, and mace. Pour a little of it over the brisket, and send the remainder to table in a separate dish. Sufiicient for six or seven persons. Probable cost, 7d. to 8d. per pound. Beef, Brisket of. Stewed (another way).—Take about seven pounds of nicely- trimmed brisket. Any bone should be taken out, get it without if possible; put it into a stewpan with water or stock to cover, a layer of bacon under, and over a few cloves, whole allspice, a bunch of sweet herbs, two small onions, two carrots, and sjilt and pepper at discretion. Simmer in a tightly-covered stew- pan from four to four and a half hours, then strain off the liquid (there will not be much), reduce it to a glaze, keeping out a little for sauce. Glaze the meat, and send up the sjiuco thickened round it. Garnish with carrot cut into slices, and glazed onions, which must be cooked apart from the meat. Probable cost, 8d. per poimd.BEE BEE (63) Beef, Brisket of, To Caive —The necompanving engraving represents the appear- ance of a brisket of beef ready for table. There BRISKET OP BEEF. is no difficulty in carving it. The only thing to observe is that it should be cut cleanly along the bones, in the direction indicated by the dotted line, with a firm hand, in nioderatel3''-thick slices. Cut it close down to the bones, so that they may not have a rough and jagged appear- ance when removed. Beef, Brose.—Take the liquor from the boiling of a large jomt of beef. After the meat has been removed make it come to the boil, and stir into it some oatmeal, which has previously been browned in an oven. Send it to table quite hot, but not too thick. A little of the liquor made to boil up will remedy this. Pro- bable cost of oatmeal, 2^d. to 3d. per pound. Beef Cakes.—Make a mincemeat of one pound of under-dressed roast beef, a quarter of a pound of ham or bacon, a few sweet herbs, and a seasoning of salt and pepper. Add a large egg well beaten, and make up into square cakes of about half an inch thick. Fry quickly in good dripping, with bread-crumbs and a little more egg beaten up. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Time, from five to six minutes. Suffi- cient for three or four persons. Beef Cannelon.—Beat a pound of mode- rately fat bacon or ham in a mortar; add it to two pounds and a half of under-cooked beef; mince together very finely along with the rind of a small lemon, a small bunch of sweet herbs, and nutmeg, pepper, and salt according to taste, binding all together with two eggs previously beaten. Form the mixture into a roll, wrap it in buttered paper, and bake it in a moderate oven for twenty minutes or half an hour. When ready, remove the paper, dish it with a good gravy poured over it, and garnish with egg-balls and forcemeat-balls. Probable cost 3s. 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Beef Cheese.—Take three parts of beef steak from any fleshy part of the animal, and one part equally composed of lean veal and un- cooked ham ; chop them together as finely as possible ; cut a piece of white bacon into small dice, and mix it with the minced meat; season with salt, pepper, allspice, chopped parsley, and chives or green onions, half a clove of garlic, bay-leaf, sprig of thyme, and half a wine-glassful of brandy. Line the bottom of an earthen pate-dish with thin slices of bacon; on this place the seasoned mincemeat; cover with more thin slices of bacon. Put the cover on the dish; lute it down with paste made of flour and vinegar, and send it to pass the night in a very slow baker's oven. Let the beef cheese cool and stift'en in the cellar for twenty-four hours before opening or cutting it up. This makes a useful, nutritious, and economical dish te help out a cold dinner, where there are many children or guests to serve in a hurry, and where bones are inconvenient, as in travelling, and on many occasions of an active and busy life. Probable cost. Is. per pound. Beef, Cold, Scalloped. — FiU some scallop-shapes with a mince of beef, highly- seasoned with salt, pepper, and a little grated ham or tongue. Add to it as much stock with a little walnut pickle as the meat will absorb when heated gently over the fire. The mince must not be thin and watery. Fill the shapes and cover them with mashed potato or bread- crumbs. Warm in the oven with butter sliced over the top, which should be prettily marked and of a nice brown colour. Time to warm, about ten minutes. Probable cost, without the meat, 6d. or 8d. Beef, Cold B,oast, Minced.—Mince about three-quarters of a pound of beef, and chop into it a seasoning of herbs and shalot. Brown a lump of butter with a little flour in a frying-pan, add some stock broth, and simmer with the seasoning for two or three minutes. Put the mince into a stewpan, pour the gravy over, and simmer again till tender. Serve with mashed potatoes or sippets of bread. Time, fifteen minutes. Beef, Collared.—Bone and skin about twelve pounds of thin flank beef, and rub it well with a mixture of common salt, salt- petre, and a little sugar. Let it stand for five days, then wash oflE the pickle; drain and dry the beef with a cloth. Prepare some strips of bacon, make notches in the meat, and lay them into the cuts; then take two large table- spoonfuls of finely-chopped parsley, one of sweet herbs, a dozen cloves well pounded, a drachm of cayenne, a quarter of an ounce of mace, and half a nutmeg grated. IMix well together and strew the mixture over the inside part of the meat, taking care that every part shall be equally covered. Eoll up and tie tightly; put it, well secured in a cloth, into a saucepan of boiling water, boil up, then simmer slowly for six hours. When ready take off the cloth and put the beef into a mould. Set a weight on the top and let it stand till cold. When sent to table garnish with parsley. Pi'o- bable cost, 7d. to 8d. per pound. Beef Collops.—Take two pounds of thinly- cut and tender rump steak, and di\'ide it into small pieces. If there be any doubt about its tenderness, beat it gently with the blade of a knife, but do not spoil the form of the meat. Lay the pieces in a frying-pan for two or three minutes. When brown put them into a stewpan and pour a pint of gravy into it. Take a quarter of a pound of butter rubbed into a little flour; add this to the gravy with a season- ing of salt and pepper, one shalot finely shred, the best part of a pickled walnut, and a small tea-spoonful of capers. Let the whole simmer for about ten minnlcs. The steak may heBEE BEE Btewod Avith water instead of gravy if pre- ferred. Serve in a covered dish, and send hot to table. Cost of beef, la. 4d. per pound. Suf- ficient for tliree or four persons. Beef CoUopa, with Onions. — Make Bonio butter hot la a iryiug-pau; got ready one pound of collops; they should be cut thinner tlian is usual for broiling, and cut two niiddlo- Bized onions into rings. Dust a little pepper over theui, and when they are browned cover the pan closely up till done. This will be in about ten minutes. Serve hot with a little oyster pickle or walnut ketchup added to the gravy in the pan. Time, tliree minutes to fry; ten to simmer. Probable cost, Is. 4d. per pound. Sufficient for two persons. Beef, Corned.—Lay a large round of beef into a good pickle. Let it remain for ten days or more, turning it every day. Put it into a stewpan with sufficient water to cover it, and let it boil very gently until it is thoroughly done. Corned beef is often smoked before it is boiled. Allow half an hour to the pound after it has come to a boil. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Beef Croquettes.—Finely mince a little di-essed beef, season it pleasantly, and moisten it with a little stiff white sauce that is a jelly when cold. Spread it on a dish, and when firm divide it into parts, and form these into corks or balls. Dip them twice in egg and bread-crumbs, place them in a wire basket if it is at hand, and fry in hot fat to a golden-brown colour. Drain them, dish them on a napkin, and garnish with parsley. Time to fry, ten minutes. Beef, Curried.—Fry three onions cut into slices. Pour over them a little stock, add a sour apple, and simmer till tender. Eub the mixture through a hair sieve, add a table-spoonful of curry paste, a table-spoonful of ground rice, and as much stock as is required to make the sauce. Stir it over the fire till smooth and thick, put in the dressed beef, cut into neat slices, simmer very gently for a short time, and serve with boiled rice. Beef Dripping.—This should be removed from the pan as it drips from the meat, taking care to keep sufficient to baste with. When dripping remains ia the pan during the whole process of cooking a joint it not only becomes discoloured and unfit for use, but it is wasteful in the highest degree to expose it to the action of a hot fire. Dripping should be placed in a basin and cleared from all impurities by means of boiling water thrown upon it. When cold, make a hole, pour out the water, and turn the dripping down side uppermost on a dish; re- move the dirt which will be found adhering to the bottom, and put the dripping by for use. If necessary, it may be returned to the basin to get another cleansing with boiling water. Clarify into jars for general use. It will be found good enough for any frying or stewing purpose to which butter is applied. Beef, Dutch.—Take ten pounds of the buttock of beef without fat, rub it well with brown sugar, and allow it to lie five or six hours, turning frequently during the time. Put the beef into an earthenware pan. Press into it a small table-spoonful of saltpetre mixed with three tablo-spoonfuls of salt, and rub and turn every day for a fortnight. Then put it into a coarse cloth under a cheese-press for twenty- four hours, and dr;y in a chimney. When boiled It should bo put mto a cloth. Probable cost, lOd. to is. per pound. ' Beef, Dutch, or Hung.—Rub into twelve or fourteen pounds of the round or rump of beef two ounces of saltpetre and two ounces of coarse sugar. Let the meat remain for two days, and add a pound of bay-salt, four ounces of com- mon salt, and an ounce of ground black pepper. When these ingi-edients liave been thoroughly rubbed in, let the beef again stay four days, when add one pound of treacle, and turn it every day for a fortnight. It may then be smoked. _ This highly-flavoured meat is mostly used to improve soups and gravies. A small piece is cut off as it is wanted, but it may be stewed slowly in boiling water and pressed while hot. Should this pickle be thought too strong three-quarters of a pound of coarse sugar may be rubbed in and the treacle omitted. It may also be prepared as spiced beef by adding a few cloves and a little mace. Time in pickle, fourteen days. Probable cost of beef, Is. per pound. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Beef, Fillet of. Braised.—Take a fiUet and roU it together, so as to bring the fat into the centre. Place a few slices of ham and a little gravy into a braising or stewpan, on which place the meat; cover it with chopped carrots, celery, small onions, a pickled chih, a gherkin sliced, sweet herbs, mace, a little allspice, and salt. Simmer until the meat is tender. Brown it before the fire, or with a salamander; skim and season the sauce, and serve with vegetables and sauce on the same dish. Beef, rUlet of, dressed on the Spit.— Soak from four to five pounds of the fiUet of beef for two days in vinegar, seasoned with thyme, onions, parsley, salt, and pepper, or if preferred, oil may be used instead of \Tnegar. When drained wrap it in an oiled paper, and put it on the spit before a quick fire. Pro- bable cost, Is. 4d. per poimd. Sufficient for five or six persons. Beef Forcemeat.—Take one pound of lean beef, quarter of a pound of beef suet, and half a pound of fat bacon ; cut them into small pieces, and add half a tea-spoonful of powdered thyme and marjoram, the same of ground allspice, and half the quantity of pounded mace. Put all into a mortar and pound them to a paste, wdth two well-beaten eggs. Season with pepper and salt. Probable cost, Is. 4d. Beef, French, Stewed. — Beat two pounds of rump steak with a rolling-pin to make it tender, and then lard it thoroughly with strips of bacon. Place it in a stewpan with some good stock, spice, salt, garlic, thj-me, parsley, and half a pint of white wine. Stew gently for four or five hours; take out the meat, glaze it, and put away to cool. Next re- duce the stock until it jellies, clear it with white of egg, flavour with lemon, and strain through a jelly-bag into a pie-dish. Serve the meatBEE ( 55 ) BEE cold, garnished with pieces of the jolly, cut up into squares or diamonds. Probable cost, 38. 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Beef Pricadelles are best when made with beef, mutton, and pork in equal quantities, and cut very fine, but either will do separately. If beef, take one pound and a half of nice lean meat, a quarter of a pound of butter, four eggs, six ounces of fine bread-crumbs, a cup of cold water, and salt and pepper to taste. Mix well together and turn out a round well-formed cake. Cover with raspings and cross over the top with a knife ; put it on a buttered plate and bake in a quick oven. It should have a nice rich brown appearance, or it may be half stewed and then completed in the oven. Time, about one hour. Probable cost, 28. 2d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Beef Pricadelles, Spiced.—Prepare the meat as in preceding recipe, adding a little more butter, some grated lemon, cinnamon, cloves, or spiced sauces to taste, and cook as already directed. The fricadelle may also be formed into small b«)lls, and fried over a clear fii-e. Time, one hour. Beef, Pricandeau of.—Lard about thiee pounds oi the rump or fillet of sirloin. Pound three or four cloves, six whole allspice, and two blades of mace. Mix a little pepper and salt with these ingredients, and sprinkle it over the meat. Put it into a stewpan with a pint of medium stock, a glass of white wine, a bunch of savoury herbs tied together, two shalots, and" a little more pepper and salt. Stew the meat very slowly for two hours, when it will be done. Remove it from the stewpan and cover to keep hot. Skim all the fat from the gravy, strain, and set it over the fire to boil tiU it is reduced to a glaze. Then put it over the top, and send it to table with sorrel round the dish. Sorrel, like spinach, requires good washing and picking; put it into a stewpan with only the water that clings to it. Stir well to prevent sticking or burning; drain out all the water; this must be done effectually; add a little butter and some good gravy, and stew till done. A little sugar may be added if there is too much acidity. Stew the sorrel for twenty minutes. Probable cost, 6s. 6d. Sufficient for six persons. Beef Prico (Charles X.'s favourite dish).— Beat and lard a juicy, tender steak of two pounds; lay it into a close-fitting covered stew- pan, with equal quantities of water and vinegar. Add a little vegetable, particularly onion, and stew gently for two hours, but do not allow it to bum or stick to the pan. "When cold cut the meat into strips, smear it with beaten egg, and strew over bread-crumbs well-seasoned with pepper, shalot, and salt. Fry tiU it is of a light brown colour, which will be in about ten minutes. Probable cost, 3s. Sufficient for four or five persons. Beef, Pried Rump Steak.—Cut the steak rather thinner than for broiling, and with a little fat. Put it into a hot pan of clarified butter or dripping, and turn frequently imtil done. Serve in about eight or ten minutes, seasoned with salt, pepper, and a little mush- room ketchup; or with a gravy made in the frjang-pan and seasoned with Harvey's sauce, or according to taste. Probable cost, Is. 4d. per pound. Beef Pritters,—Scrape one pound of meat from a piece of cold roast beef, and season it with pepper and salt. Have ready a batter made with three-quarters of a pound of floui-, and about half a pint of water. Blend these two well together, and stir in a piece of butter about the size of an egg, which has been melted before the fire. Whisk the whites of two eggs, and add it to the batter with the scraped meat. Stir weU, and drop only a small quantity at a time into the pan, when the lard or dripping is boiling. Turn, that both sides may be brown. From eight to ten minutes will be sufficient to cook them over a steady fire. Dry, and send to table on a napkin. Probable cost, about 6d. to 8d., without meat. Sufficient for two per- sons. Beef Gobbets.—Cut two poimds of lean beef into small pieces, put it into a stewpan with water sufficient only to cover it, and allow it to simmer gently for an hour. Then add sliced carrots and turnips, a head of celery minced, and a small bunch of savoury herbs, with salt to taste, a crust of bread, and half a tea-cupful of rice. Enclose in a clean muslin bag a few peppercorns, three or four cloves, and a small blade of mace. Put the lid on the pan, and let the whole stew again for another half hour, or \mtil the meat is quite tender. Take out the crust, spice, and herbs. Place the meat on slices of toasted bread, pour the liquid in which it was stewed over it, and serve quickly, as the dish is best hot. Probable cost of beef, 1 Od. per pound. Sufficient for four or five persons. Beef Gobbets (another way).—Fry some small pieces of beef brown in a little butter, but first season with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and grated lemon-peel. Then put them into a stew- pan with some parsley and shalot finely shred, and stew them till sufficiently tender in a rich brown gT&vj. When nearly done, add a tea- spoonful of port wine and one of vinegar. Make a cover of grated bread-crumbs over the dish in which they are served; season them with pepper, salt, and a little butter, and brown with a salamander. Time, five minutes to iry; twenty minutes to stew. Probable cost, Is., without meat. Beef, Gravy, To Keep in Store.—Put four or five pounds of gravy beef, free from fat, into a stewpan vnth one pint of water, a carrot sliced, a good-sized onion, a head of celery, a thick slice of cooked ham, and a couple of cloves. Close the lid of the pan and let it stew imtil the water has nearly dried up, taking care that neither meat or vegetables get burnt or even stick to the pan. Then add three quarts of boiling water. Eemove the pan from the fire, but put it near enough to keep the liquid from boiling too fast. When well boiled and reduced to two quarts, strain through a sieve, and when cold take off the fat. This gravy wiU serve for game or poultry, and will keep good several days. Probable cost of beef, 8d. per pound.BEE BEE ( 56 ) Beef Griskins (of Cold Moat, Roast or lioiliHl).—Tlui l)i(at of these arc tlio tliiu part of tho ril)8, tli(! lircast, or othur i)urtious of the bullock iu whifli tho fat aud loan are equally mixed. Finely chop one or two onions or shalots, some parsley, and mix tliom with pepper, salt, grated nutmeg, and oiled butter, which last nuist be kept sufficiently wann t() remain liquid. Cut tho bcof into slices about an inch thick; steep them iu tho above, turning them over from time to time. \Vlion they are well soaked, press them on both sides in broad- crumbs mi.\ed with a little grated cheoso. Grill them over a gentle tii-o till they are thoroughly heated, and nicely browned on both sides. While they are broiling, put tho butter, onions, &c., in which thoy wore steeped, into u saucepan, with a couple of table-spoonfuls of broth. Let it boil a few miiuiLcs, shaking it about; add a tea-spoonfid of vinegar and a table-spoonful of ketchup, and serve in a sauceboat with the broiled griskins. Beef, Hamburg {see Hamburg Beef). Beef Hams.—Take beer in quantity enough to mi.x the following ingredients:— Three ounces of treacle, one pound of coarse brown sugar, one pound of salt, one ounce of bay-salt, and one of saltpetre poimded together, and half an oxmce of coarse black pepper. Get a leg of beef shaped like a ham, lay it in a dish and keep it basted with the pickle, which should be thrown over it, at first, four times a day; during the second week it may be done only three times, and for the last fortnight twice a day, morning and evening, will be sufficient. In a month drain, dry, and roll it in bran; then smoke for a fortnight or three weeks It should be secured in canvas, and well washed with lime. Hang in a dry store. Cost of ingredients, about Is. Sufficient for one gaUon. Beef, Hash (a la Fran9aise).—Put two ounces of butter and a little flour into a stewpan: dissolve it, and throw in a Uttle chopped onion and « dessert-soooniiil of finely-minced parsley; brovm, but do not bum the butter. When sufficiently brown, add three-quarters of a j)int of good boiling broth, quite free from fat, and a little pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Put in shoes of cold beef (two pounds), and allow it to heat gradually by the side of the fire. Thicken the sauce with a little more flour well mixed in a table-spoonful of water, or beat up three eggs mixed with a table-spoonful of lemon-juice; the thickening must be put in when near the point of boiling. Time, fifteen minutes to stew. Sufficient for five or six persons. Beef, Hash. (Norman method).—Put into a bowl a large cup of boiling stock or broth, a wine-glassful of red wine, a Uttle salt and pepper or cayenne, and some lemon picldo ketchup. Fry about two dozen small silver onions in butter till they are of a pale brown colour; mix in two des- sert-spoonfuls of flour, and stir tiU it has become a beautiful amber colour. Pour the contents of the bowl into the pan, and boil the whole until the onions are done; then put some small, well- cut slices of roast or boiled beef into a clean atc-w-pan, and pour tho gravy and onions over them. Allow it to stand till tho meat has acqmrod the flavour of tlie gravy ; then make it very liut, ]>ut do not ftllow it to boil. (Surve (luickly. Time, twenty nuuutes. Probable ajst. exclusive of moat, lOd. Beef, Hash, with Croutons. — Take a pint of good stock, a table-spoonful of lemon pickle, one of mushroom ketcliup, a glass of claret, and about a doz;;n silver button onions, which liavo been previously fried in butter and well browned. Put tho mixture into a stewpan with tho butter in which the onions were fried. Set it over a clear fire until the onions are tender, then pour it all over the slices of two pounds of cold beef to bo hashed. Let it stand about twenty minutes, well covered; then di-aw it nearer to the fire, but do not allow it to boiL Serve up with croutons. To prepare tho croutons: take two rounds of bread cut very thin, make them any desired shape, long strips, stars, or rounds; fry them in boiling butter a nice browTi colour, drain on a cloth, and serve. Probable cost, without meat, 7d. or 8d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Beef Heart (see Bullock's Heart). Beef, Hung.—This meat should be hung as long as is consistent with safety to make it tender. Rub into the meat weighing, say from twelve to fourteen pounds, one pound of bay- salt, one pound of coarse brown sugar, and six ounces of saltpetre pounded and mixed together. It should be rubbed every morning, and will then be ready for smoking in a fortnight. Probable cost of beef, lOd. per pound. Smoke the meat about three weeks. Beef, Hung (another way).—This recipe can be used for beef either smoked or un- smoked. It may be salted dry, or put into a pickle made with the same ingredients. The beef must be hung for three or four davs, then rubbed with bay-salt, brown sugar, salt- petre, and a little pepper and allspice; after- wards hang it up in a warm but not a hot place, rolled tight in a cloth, for a fortnight or more tin it has become sufficiently hard. It may be hung in the comer of a cliimney of a wood fire to get the fiavour of smoke, or sent to a smoking-house. A small clove of garhc put in the pickle is considered an improvement. Time, two or three weeks to remain in brine. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Beef J Hunters'.—Get a nice round of beef, weighing about twenty-five pounds, and hang it for two or three days, according to the weather. When hung long enough, put it into a salting-pan, reduce the following in- gredients to powder, and rub it into the meat every moming for eighteen or twenty days, turning it at every rubbing:—Three ounces of saltpetre, three ounces of coarse sugar, one ounce of cloves, one nutmeg, half an ounce of allspice, one pound of salt, and half a pound of bay-salt. When salt enough, cleanse it from the brine, put a bandage round the whole ex- tent of the meat to keep it in shape, and lay it in a pan with half a pint of water at the bottom, and some shred suet on the top of tlie beef. Cover all with a paste composed of flour and water, and bake it for nhout six hours. Do not remove the paste until the heat has quite( 67 ) BEE BEE epnc off. ThG bcondiigo round tho meat should be dean and not quite new. The gi-avy left in the bottom of the pan should bo preserved; it will be found excellent for made dishes of any kind. The beef may be glazed and gar- nished with savoury jelly. Average cost of beef, lOd. per pound. Beef, Inky-pinky.—Good gravy should be used if it is to be nad; if not, boil down the bones from which the meat has been cut, as well as the outside trimmings; they will make a gmvy sufficiently good, with liie addition of sliced boiled caiTots and an onion. When the bones have pai-ted with all their strength, strain tho liquor, and add to it some slices of cold roast beef, about two pounds, and the carrots and onion. Simmer slowly, and add a little vinegar, pepper, and salt. Remove the onion ; it will have imparted a flavour, which is all that is necessary; but serve up the carrots with the sauce, thickened with a little butter and flour. Put sippets of bread round tho dish, or garnish as any other hash. Average cost, exclusive of meat, 6d. Time, twenty minutes to stew. Sufficient for four or five persons. Beef, Jerked.—This is a West Indian method of curing beef. It is cut into thin slices, immersed in sea-water, and dried by exposure to the rays of the sun. Beef Kidney {see Bullock's Kidney). Beef Liver {see Bullock's Liver). Beef, Lumber, in Madeira Sauce.— Roast three pounds of beef, for half an hour only. Prepare a sauce with brown stock or broth, some butter, flour, cayenne pepper, salt, pepper, and a glass of Madeira. Put the half- cooked beef into a stewpan with the sauce, and simmer, but do not boil, for the same time. Mushrooms or truffles add to the delicacy. Time, haK an hour to simmer. Probable cost of limiber, Is. 4d. per pound. Beef, Marinade.—A pickle should be made on the day pre^dous to the marinade being required, that the meat may lie in it the full time necessary. Extract, by stew- ing, all the flavour from the following in- gredients, with vinegar and water in equal quantities:—One clove of garlic, some sliced carrots and onions, a few peppercorns, and a little salt. Strain, and let it become cold. Cut into slices one pound of beef from the inside of a sirloin, and lay them in the pickle for twenty- four hours. Have ready a little, nice, brown gravy, and simmer the slices in it till they are quite tender. Blend together a little butter and flour, add this to the gravy, with a glass of port wine, two dessert-spoonfiils of mushroom ketchup, and a tea-spoonful of shalot vinegar. Serve with the sauce poured over it. Time to simmer, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, without meat. Is. Sufficient for three persons. Beef Marrow Bones.—Saw the bones into short lengths, and mix some flour and water into a paste to secure both ends, which should also have a floui-ed cloth tied over them. Put them into boiUog water, and let them boil from one and a half to two hours. Put small napkins round them, or a frill of paper, which- ever is most convenient, and remove the paste before they aro sent to table. Serve them on a napkin, with hot dry toast. The marrow may be spread upon the toast, and well seasoned with pepper and salt. When not wanted for inmiediate use the bones, should be parboiled, as they Avill keep many days in this state. Pro- bable cost for a large leg-bone, from 9d, to Is. Beef, Minced (a la Bourgeoise).—Brown a piece of butter, the size of a walnut, rolled in flour, in a stewpan. Cut some roast beef into small pieces, and put them, with a little parsley, basil, thyme, pepper, and nutmeg, into the brown butter. Shake the pan for some minutes over a slow fire, and add equal parts of wine and stock broth. Simmer until the meat is tender, and before send- ing to table add a table-spoonful of the best oil. Time to simmer, twenty minutes, or until tender. Two pounds of beef will be found sufficient for three or four persons. Beef, Minced, Savoury.—Mince very fine three or four small onions, wdth a little thyme, parsley, chives, and tarragon, and put them into a stewpan, with an ounce of butter, over a gentle fire, until partially cooked. Mix with them half a table-spoonful of flour, and let them become brown. Add pepper, salt, half a glass of white wine, and a glass of stock. When the onions and spices are quite ready, put them into the pan with a sufficient quantity of cold beef finely minced, and allow it to simmer at a gentle heat for half an hour. Before sending to table, mix with it a spoonful of mustard. Beef, Miroton of.—Put three ounces of butter into a frying-pan, with three onions, thinly sliced, and a pound of cold roast beef, under-cooked, if possible, and cut into small slices. Turn the meat constantly, so that it will be evenly browned on both sides. When of a nice colour, put in about half a pint of good gravy, with salt and pepper to taste. Allow it to simmer a few minutes, but do not boil, or the meat will be shrunken and hard. Serve hot. This is a very nice and cheap dish. Probable cost, about 6d., without the beef. Beef Olives.—Cut two pounds of rum] steak into thin slices, or if preferred leave it h, one large piece. Lay over it a seasoning ot chopped herbs, pepper, and salt; roll up the pieces separately, and tie round with a narrow tape. Get a clean stewpan, in which place one ounce of butter, half a pound of bacon cut in thin slices, and some chopped parsley. Put the rolls of steak into a stewpan, pressing them closely together; turn them over till they are brown, then pour a little stock over them, and stew gently from two to three hours. When sufficiently tender, thicken the gravy with a tea-spoonful of brown thickening, or half an ounce of butter roUed in flour, and serve. A few drops of mushroom ketchup, or Readmg sauce, is considered bv some cooks to improve tins dish. Probable' cost for steakBEE ( 68 ) BEE Is. 3(1. to Is. 6d. por pound. Sufficient for six poi'sons. Beef Olives, (Au Iloi).—Take long, thin slices of beof, and lay over thorn equal quan- tities of mublirooni, parsley, and cliopped onion. The vogetjiblos must be carefully prepared • a spoonful of ouch will bo suffitiient for six slices of moat. JMash two pounds of boiled potatoes. Mix a spoonful of flour to a quiirtor of a pint of cream, and the yolks of two eggs well beaten, with a little pepper and salt, and add it to the mash. Spread the mixture over the olives; roll them up, tie with a naiTOw tape, and fry, or put them into the oven for about half an hour. Serve with a good brown sauce, or they may have an edging of potatoes. Time, half an hour. Probable cost, without the moat, Is. Beef Palates (au Gratin).—Beat up the yolks of two oggs, and mix them, when well beaten, Avith the following ingredients:—A blade of mace, pounded, -with a little salt and pepper, an eschalot, and a sprig of par- sley, minced, two or three button mushrooms, and a slice of ham, scraped finely. Cut three palates, which have been cleaned and boiled and the skin removed, into long slices; spread this forcemeat over them, and roU each one round, fastening it with a skewer. Bake in a moderate oven for half an hour, with bread- crumbs, well seasoned, and thin slices of butter laid over them. Probable cost, 6d. each. Beef Palates, Fricasseed.—Put six well-cleaned palates into a stewpan, -with just water enough to cover them; add a bunch of parsley, a glass of white wine, a tea-spoonful of salt and sugar, and a little pepper. Simmer three hours, and strain the liquor. Blend two oimces of good butter with a table-spoonful of flour; dissolve it over the fire, and stir in gradually half a pint of cream, with aa much of the liquor in which the palates were boiled as will make it of the proper consistency. Lay the palates into the stewpan, in neat, roxmd slices; add a couple of small cucumbers (divide them into strips, and remove the seeds), two or three small onions, previously boiled, a little nutmeg, grated, with cayenne and salt to taste, and stew twenty minutes. When ready to serve, add a table-spoonful of lemon-juice to the sauce. Probable cost of palates, 6d. each. Sufficient for a dish to serve six or seven persons. Beef Palates, Fried. — Blanch three ox palates for ten minutes; scrape them care- fully, and boil slowly for three hours. When tender, take oflE the skin, and slice them for frying. Dissolve a little butter, and shred up some onion and parsley. Dip each slice of palate into the butter ; then into the parsley and onion, which should be seasoned -with salt and cayenne. Fry from five to eight minutes, a nice brown colour, and serve with lemon- juice over the slices, and fried parsley as gar- nish. Probable cost, 6d. each. Sufficient for four or five persons. Beef Palates, Stewed.—Cleanse, soak, and boil the palfiies, as before directed. Skin ^'^"^ slices of from one to two mchos broad, and let them stew in some lich gravy, well seasoned witli wilt, cayenne, and mace, a table-spounf ul of grated ham or tongue, and a couple of cloves. When they have stewed for about half an hour, add two ounces of butter, a little flour, a glass of sherry, and a table-spoonful of lemon-juira. Sorve on a dish m a circle, with croutons arranged altematcjly with the palate. I'roljabl<j cost, 6d. each. Suf- ficient for four or five persons. Beef Patties.—Shred one pound of under- cooked beef, a little fat and lean together; season with pepper or cayenne, salt, and a little onion or shallot. Make half a pound of puff-paste, not too rich, stamp it into a doz(;n rounds, place the mince on half of these, and cover them with the other half. Bind the edges with white of egg, and then fry the pat- ties a light brown. Time to fry, ten minutes. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for six patties. Beef Patties (another way).—Take thick slices of bread, a week old if it can be obtained, and make them of the desired form and size with a tin cutter. Scoop out the middle to receive the mince, prepared as in the preceding recipe. Dip each piece of bread into cream, and when drained brush them with white of egg, and dredge bread-crumbs, or bread- raspings, over them. Fry in good fresh butter, fill them with the mince, made hot, and send to table on a napkin. Beef Patties, Meat for.—Mince half a pound of good, fresh suet; put it to one pound of beef and one pound of veal, cut into small pieces, but not chopped. Season it with pepper, salt, allspice, and a very little mace—the allspice and mace should be pounded. Mix all together; and when wanted for patties, cut up a little parsley, and shred one blade of shalot, very finely, to mix with it. Bake in patty-pans, or buttered saucers for half an hour. They are also good cold, and may be warmed up at any time. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Beef, Pickle for.—This pickle is in- tended for dry-salting. The ingredients must be well pounded and mixed together before the meat is rubbed -with it, and the beef, or hams, turned and well rubbed every day until salt enough. Two pounds of conunon salt, one and a half ounces of saltpetre, four ounces of brown sugar, and one tea-spoonful of black pepper, will be found to impart a good, rich flavour to the meat. Cost of ingredients, about 3d. Beef, Pickle for (another way).—^To two gallons of clear, spring water, take four poim'ds of salt, two pounds of sugar, and two ounces of saltpetre. Treacle may be used with sugar, part of each, if preferred. Boil all together until the scum has quite disappeared, and when cold throw it over the meat to be pickled. A piece of beef, weighing from fourteen to sixteen pounds, will take twelve, or even fourteen days, and a ham a fortnight or three weeks. Cost for two gallons, about 8d. Beef Pie, Baised.—Cover the sides of a raised pie-mould •«ath butter, and put a lining of paste, made in the following manner, neatly into it:—Chop a quarter of a pound of suet, put it into a stewpan -"Hlth a (]|uartor of a poun^.( 59 ) BEE BEE of butter and a pint of water; when boiling, TMBs them through a sieve into two pounds of tiour, and stir it with a spoon until the heat has gone otf. When the dough, or paste, is quite smooth, roll it out, and it is ready for the lining. Take two pounds of rump steak and cut them into small coUops; season them with minced piu-sley, pepper, and salt; dust them with flour, and lay them rouna the mould; fill it with alternate layers of potatoes, thinly sliced, and meat. Make a Hd for the mould with some of the paste, brush it over with beaten egg, and bake about thiee hours and a half. Put an ornamental centre to the cover, that it may be more easily raised to throw in some gravy as soon as it is baked. Probable cost, 3s. lOd. Beef, Potted.—Hare ready a saucepan of boiUng water, and a covered jar that will hold about two pounds of beef; let the meat be lean, and without bone or gristle. Place the jar containing the meat into the saucepan; put two tea-spoonfuls of water into it, and close the lid tightly that no more may enter. The water in the saucepan must be about an inch and a half below the hd of the jar, and it should boil slowly until the meat is done, which will be in about three hours and a half. It should then be chopped with a knife, and afterwards pounded in a mortar; adding some clarified butter, the meat-juice from the jar (if too much keep back a part), and a seasoning of pepper and salt. Fill into small pots, and pour some melted butter over the top; this will preserve the meat good for a long time. Beef, Pressed.—Dissolve a quarter of an ounce of saltpetre in a little water, and mix with it two pounds of common salt and half a pound of brown sugar. Rub this pickle into a piece of meat, weighing about ten or twelve pounds, every morning for eight days; then remove it from the pan, and secure it in a nice round with a piece of broad tape or calico. Put it into hot water, and simmer for over five hours; then put it into a pan of cold spring water for five or six minutes, drain, and put it on a flat sur- face with an even weight on the top. "When cold take off the bandage, trim the meat, and serve. {See also Pressed Beef.) Beef, Preserved (iSee Australian Beef). Beef, Ragout.—Take equal quantities of good gravy and boiling water—a pint in all. Pour it into a ste^vpan, in which two pounds of cold roast beef, sliced, have been put. Add five or six small onions, some mixed spices, pepper and salt to taste, and let the whole stew very gently until tender, which will be in about two hours. Before serving, add capers and pickled walnuts to the gravy. Probable cost, exclusive of meat, 4d. or 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Beef, Ribs of {\ la Fcrmiere).—Take a rib of beef, and cover it with slices of bacon well seasoned with herbs. Put into a stewpan a little butter, and let it melt over the fire, and place the rib in it, with some salt and popper. Expose the moat to the heat of a quick fire, and when sufficiently browned on both sides, set the ^ewpa;^ farther from the fire, so that it ma^ continue to cook at a gentle heat. As soon as it is sufficiently done, remove the meat, and place it on a dish. Take some small cucumberb, slice, and cook them at a gentle heat in the gravy, and add to the meat before serving. Beef, Ribs of (a la Marseillaise).— Brown a rib of beef over a quick fire, with four table-spoonfuls of good oil. When both sides are browned draw the stewpan aside, and let it cook gently until tender. Fry some sliced onions in oil until they are brown ; then add vinegar, mustard, and a little stock broth. Season with salt and pepper, and pour it over the rib of beef. Beef, Ribs of. To Carve.—The ribs \ should be cut in thin and even slices from the BIBS OF BEEF. thick end towards the thin, in the same manner as the sirloin; this can be more readily and cleanly done, if the carving-knife is first run along between the meat and the end and rib- bones. Beef, Ribs of. To Roast.—The best piece to roast is the fore-rib, and it should be hung for two or three days before being cooked. The ends of the ribs sliould be sawn off, the outside fat fastened with skewers, and the strong sinew and chine bones removed. The joint should first be placed near the fire, and after a short time it should be drawn back and roasted steadily. Baste freely with clarified dripping at first, as there will not be sufficient gravy when first put down; keep basting at intervals of ten minutes till done. Care must be taken not to allow it to bum, as it is very easily spoiled. Serve with horseradish sauce. Probable cost, lOd, to Is. per poxmd. Beef, Rib Steaks (h la Bordelaise).— Cut out a thick steak from between the bones; soak it in salad-oil, and season with salt and pepper. Broil on each side for five minutes. BoU. a small young vegetable marrow, cut it into half-inch slices, glaze, and lay them, when made quite hot, over the steak. Pour some Bordelaise sauce over all, and serve very hot. Time to boil the marrow, ten to twenty minutes. Beef, Rib Steaks {ii la Maitre d'Hotel), —Prepare steaks as in preceding recipe; put soiiie IVJa^tre 4'Hotel butter oi^ a, hot dish; layBEE BEE (60) tho stoiiks upon it and glaze over tho top. Tiiiu), ton niinuti'H to broil. I'robiiblo cost, Is. por pound. Two pounds sufficiont for four persons. Beef Rissoles. —Minco one pound of cold roust boof, tho louner tho bottor, very fine; add poppor, salt, a fow savory herbs chopped small, and half a toa-spoonful of minced lenion- peol; mix all together with half the weight of the beef in broad-crumbs. Bind it with two eggs into a tliick paste ; foi-m into l)all8 ; dip them in white of egg and broad-crumbs, and fry them a rich brown. Serve with a garnish of fried parsley, and with a brown gravy in a tureen, or wthout the parsley, roimd tho rissoles on the dish. Time, from eight to ten minutes. Probable cost, without meat, about 6d. Beef, Roast.—For roasting, the sirloin of beef is considered the prime joint. Before the moat is put upon the spit, the pipe which runs doNvn tho bone should be cut out; cover tho fat with a piece of white paper fastened on with string. Make up a good strong fire, with plenty of coals put on at the back. Put it rather near tho fire at first, and in a short time draw it back, and keep it about eighteen inches from the grate. Baste continually all the time it is roasting, at first with a little butter or fresh dripping, afterwards its own fat will be suffi- cient. If the basting is kept up as it should be, the joint will not need to have flour dredged over it, before removing it from the fire. The time it will take in roasting depends upon the thickness of the piece; a piece of sirloin weigh- ing about fifteen pounds should be roasted for three hours and a half, while a thinner piece, though of the same weight, may be done in three hours. It must also be remembered that it takes longer to roast when newly killed than when it has been kept, and longer in cold weather than in warm. Beef, Roast, Minced.—Place a spoon- ful of liour in a pan, and bi'own it with some butter. Add a pound of cold roast beef finely minced, some gravy, or stock broth, with a glass of wine, and season with herbs chopped up, and salt and pepper. When nearly ready, put in a little butter, and mix it vsdth the other materials. This dish may be sent to table either -with eggs ranged round the dish, or with pieces of bread fried crisp in butter. Beef, Roast, and Boiled Turkey- Soup.—Take the liquor in which a turkey has been boiled, and the bones of the turkey and beef; put them into a soup-pot with two or thi-ee carrots, turnips, and onions, half a dozen cloves, pepper, salt, and tomatoes, if they can bo had; boil four hours, then strain all out. Put the soup back into the pot, mix two table- spoonfuls of fiour in a little cold water; stir it into the soup, and allow it to boil. Cut some bread in the form of dice, lay it in the bottom of the tureen, pour the soup on to it, and colour with a little soy. Beef Roll. — Take four pounds of cold, roast, or boiled boof ; mince it well; season it to tftsto with ordinary condiments and chopped herbs, and put it into a roll of puff-paate. Bake for half an hour, or Icjngor if the paste is thick. Tho French prepare a roll of moat in the above method, wrap a buttered paper roimd it, and cover with a coarse jiasto of liour and water, and bake it in a moderate oven for a couple of liours, that is, if tho meat weigh say four pounds. Tho paper and crunt is then removed, and tho roll served with a little brown gravy. As a rule, any meat baked in a coarse crust this way, will repay the cook for her trouble. Beef Rolled as Hare.—Take any piece of tender lean beef—inside of a su-loin to be preferred. Allow it to soak for twenty-four hours in a little port wino and vinegar mixed, a glass of each. Make some forcemeat, let it bo very good, and place it with a slice or two of bacon on tho beet, lloll and tie it, and roast before a clear fire, basting frequently with a sauce of port wine and vinegar, of equal quan- tities, and pounded allspice. Serve with a rich gravy, and send red-currant jelly to table with it. Probable cost for two pounds of meat, 2s. 9d, Time, about three-quarters of an hour. Beef, Round of, Boiled.—Few people dress a whole round, and hence this recipe is given for half a round, or, say twelve pounds, from the silver or tongue side of the round. Salt it for eight or ten daj'-s, then clean off tho salt or brine, skewer it up tight, and tie a piece of wide taj)e round it to keep it well together. Put it into a saucepan of lukewarm water, boil up, and keep boiling for four minutes, remove the scum carefully as it rises, otherwise it will sink into the beef and give it an unsightlj"- appearance. When the scum is well removed, set the pan by the side of the fire, and let the meat simmer very gently, allowing twenty minutes for each pound of meat. Should any scum stick to the meat, remove it -with a brush before serving. Replace the skewers by silver ones, trim the round, and throw over the meat some of the liquor it was boiled in. Garnish with carrots, parsnips, &c. Time to simmer, about three hours after it boils. Probable cost, about lOd. per pound. Beef, Round of, Pickled.—Boil six pounds of salt, two poimds of sugar, and three ounces of powdered saltpetre in three gallons of water (spring water is the best if it can be pro- cured), skim well, and when cold, pour it over the joint, which should previously have been rubbed during two or three days with a dry mixture of the same. Some housekeepers pre- fer this dry method throughout, rubbing regu- larly for twenty-one daj^s, and using salt only during the last fortnight. If put into lukewarm water, boiled for four minutes, then drawn back and simmered slowly at the rate of twenty minutes to everj' pound, tho meat will be tender, and of "a good colour and flavour. Average cost of beef, lOd. per pound* Beef, Round of, Red.—Salt a roimd of beef m tho ordinary way, but mix an oimce of aUspico, the same of popper, and two ounces of saltpetre with the salt, and rub and tm-n daily for a fortnight. At the end of this time press well into the meat some minced onion; put a thick coating of good beef suet over the(61) top, and two glasses of Madeira, and a small qiiantity of mace into the pan and bake. Allow twenty minutes for the baking of each pound of beef. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Beef, Salt—Take a piece of beef weighing seven or eight pounds and cover it with brown sugar, well rubbed in, and Jillow it to remain for five or six hom-s; then powder half an ounce of saltpetre and press this equally on all sides to give it a colour; next, cover it with common salt and let it stay till the next day. Turn it, and rub with the salt in the pan for five or six days ; throwing the brine over it at the same time with a spoon or ladle. This mode of salting improves the flavour and prevents the meat becoming hard. Probable cost of beef, lOd. per pound. Sufficient for a dozen persons. Beef, Salt, Fried.—Season some thin slices, about one pound, of under-dressed beef, with pepper and salt; put them into a clean frjong-pan with a little butter, and fry imtil they become a light brown colour; mash some potatoes, serve them very hot with the slices of beef laid on them, and garnish with slices of cucimiber or pickled gherkins. Time, about five minutes for meat. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of the cold meat. Sufficient for two persons. Beef Sauce, Piquante.—Put one ouitce of butter and four table-spoonfuls of vinegar into a stewpan with four finely-chopped shalots, and stir over the fire with a wooden spoon till the butter becomes clear, then add one ounce of flour and stir three or four minutes; take one pint of bouilli or common stock broth, a little colouring, and one-eighth of an ounce of pepper ; boil all together fifteen minutes, then add one table-spoonful of chopped gherkins and one of minced parsley, boil up, skim, and serve with bouilli separately in a sauce tureen. Time, twenty minutes. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Beef Sausages.—Clear the beef and suet from all skin, bone, and gristle; take two pounds of lean beef to one pound of suet, add salt, pepper, and mixed spice, and shalots, or any other tasty condiment, according to liking, chop very fine and mix well together. Some cooks prefer to pound the whole in a mortar, but if the meat is well .minced this is needless. Eoli the meat into sausages and fry until it becomes a nice brown colour, and serve in the usual way, with mashed potatoes roimd the dish. They are more delicate if pressed into skins. It is worth notice that all meat cooked with the sldn retains its original flavour, and is much preferred by connoisseurs. Time to fry, ten to twelve minutes. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Beef Sausages (Home Made).—Eemove all the skin and gristle from two pounds of lean beef, and mince it very finsiy with one pound and a half of good fresh suet; add, as a seasoning, one tea-spoonful of powdered sage, the same of thyme and allspice, with salt and pepper to taste; fill thoroughly clean bkias, and boil as directed for black puddings. Time, half an hour to boil. Probable cost for this (piantity, about Ss. Sufficient for four or five persons. Beef, Shin of. Soup.—Take three or four poimds of shin of beef, cut the meat into two or three slices down to the bone, which should remain imdividod and still enclosed _ia the flesh. Plug up each end of the bone with a stiff paste made of flour and water, to keep in the .marrow. Set it on the fire in a large pot of cold water, with six or eight peppercorns and three or four cloves. Kemove the scum as it rises. Season slightly with salt; otherwise, by continued boiling and warming-up, the broth will be so reduced as to become too salt. Let it boil gently for four hours, then make it boil fast, ana throw in a few peeled turnips, carrots, and oaions, wdth a small bunch of thyme and parsley. When the vegetables are tender, serve the soup vrith bits of toasted bread floating in it. When the soup has been served, take up the beef, remove the slices of meat from the bone, separate them, if needed, with a knife and fork, put them in the middle of a hot di&ii, and arrange the vegetables round them, cutting the carrots and turnips into shapely bits. For sauce, fry chopped onions brown, stir in amongst them a dessert-spoonful of flour, diluted with a little of the soup, two dessert-spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, pepper and salt, stir all together, and pour it over the slices of shin, and serve. For the marrow: toast a large round of bread, lay it on a hot plate, spread the marrow roughly on it, season with pepper, salt, and a little mustard, cut it into as many pieces as there are guests, and serve very hot. Beef, Shin of, Stewed.—This meat is best adapted to stewing. The liquor is used, when boiled in a quantity of water, for soups, wdth the addition of other meat and ingredients to improve it. For stewing, saw the bone into many pieces and put it iuto a stewpan, with suffi- cient water to cover it; bring it to a boil and take off the scmn, this must be done thoroughly, and the meat drawn aside to simmer; add to it some celery cut iato pieces, one good-sized onion, twelve black peppercorns, a bimch of sweet herbs, three or four small carrots, and the same of cloves, or about half a tea-spoonful of allspice; season wdth pepper and salt, and let the whole stew very gently for four hours ; boil some carrots and turnips sepeirately, cut them into shapes, and serve with the meat. Pro- bable cost, 7d. per lb. Sufficient for seven or eight per!?on.s. Beef, Sirloin of. Roast.—^It is said by some modern cooks that a joint of meat should be first put near the fire to harden the surface and keep in the juice, and then drawn back from it to roast very slowly. The old mode of cooking differs in this particular of beginning at a dis- tance of about twelve inches from the fire, and gradually drawing it nearer as the joint ap- proaches to being thoroughly cooked. There is so much to be said in favour of the latter mode, since a joint may be roasted with half the fuel used for the former, that the recipe here given is for the old method. Make choice of a nice sirloin weighing from twelve to fourteen pounds; dredge it over with flour, and place it on the spit, at a distance of eighteen inches, of course supposing the fire to bo large and bright,BEE baato uuspiiriiigly and aprinklo ovor it a little Bait. Whou hiilf (lono draw it a littlo nearor; continue to baste, and flour gently with a dredger. The moat should look frothy when served, and this can only bo obtained by thorough basting. Give it the usual time—a quarter of an hour to a pound; a little longer if liked very well done, or the weather is frosty and the meat solid. Time, quarter of an hour to each pound. Probable cost of sirloin, Is. per pound. Beef, Sirloin of, Roast (a la St. Florontin). —^Tako out the suet and lay it thickly over tho top of tho iillet, secured down with a well- huttored paper. First tie the flap under tho fillet, and make all firm before it is put to the spit. About ten minutes before it is done take ott" the paper and froth tho meat by di-edging ib lightly with sjilt and dry flour, and basting i', with butter. Servo with Robert Sauce in a tureen. Probable cost of beef, Is. per pound. Beef, Sirloin of. To Carve.—A sirloin should bo cut with one good firm stroke from end to end of the joint, at the upper portion, making the cut very clean and even from a b to c. Then disengage it from the bone by a SIRLOIN OF BEEF. horizontal cut exactly to the bone, b to d, using the tip of the knife. Bad carving bears the hand away to the rind of the beef, eventually, after many cuts, peeling it back to the other side, leaving a portion of the best of the meat adhering to the bone. Every slice should be clean and even, and the sirloin should cut fairly to the very end. Many persons cut the under side whilst hot, not reckoning it so good cold; but this is a matter of taste, and so is the mode of carving it. The best way is first of all to remove the fat, e, which chops up well to make puddings, if not eaten at table. Then tho under part can be cut, as already described, from end to end, f to o, or do^vnwards,. as shown by the marks at h. Beef Skirts.—Those should be broiled— they are best so—but if liked may be stewed in a little brown gravy seasoned with a table- spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and another of shalot vinegar, with a thickening of butter and flour. If broiled, serve over spinach or toasts fried and seasoned with pepper and salt. Time to broil, eight to ten minutes. Probable cost, lOd. to Is. per pound. Beef, Spanish, Prico.—Cut up two pounds of the fillet, riuup, or round of bocf into pieces weighing about an ounce each, and add cayenne pepper and salt to taste. Buil two I)ound8 ot potatoes and cut tliein into good thick slices; place tlu^m with ihu meat and a small cup of gravy in a close-fitting stewpan in alternate layers. Add a quarter of a pound of butter and as much Spanish onion, previously boiled and sliajd, as may be liked. Stew gently for an hour, and when nearly done throw a glass of Madeint or claret over all. Probable cost, 38. '6d. Suflicient for four or five persons. Beef, Spiced.—A small round of alxjut eighteen or twenty pounds will take a fortnight to cure. Prepare the following ingredients: one pound of common salt, one ounce of saltpetre, three ounces of allspice, one of black pepper- corns, and half a pound of coarse sugar. Pound the saltpetre, allspice, and black peppercorns, and mix well together with the salt and sugar. Hub all into the meat; do this every day and turn, for the time mentioned. Then wash off the brine, put it into an earthenware pan, with about a pint of water and a layer of suet over and imder, with a common paste over all; bake from six to eight hours, and allow it to cool thoroughly before using. Probable cost of meat, lOd. to lid. per pound. Beef steak. — Let the steak be about three-quarters of an inch thick (rump, for broiling, is the best); rub the gridiron with a little fat to prevent the meat from sticking, and place it with the steak over a sharp clear fire—no smoke, of course ; turn frequently with a knife or steak tongs, but do not prick the meat with a fork, as the gravy will escape and the meat become hard. Serve in a hot dish with a httle mushroom ketchup, or other sauce or gravy at discretion, taking care to put a little butter first, melted over the steak, should it be a lean one. In any case it makes the steak look better. Probable cost, Is. 3d. to Is. 6d. per poimd. Time, eight to ten minutes to broU. Half a pound to each person is considered sufficient. When purchasing steak it is well to remember that, when it can be afforded, rump steak or slices from the undercut of the sirloin is best for broiling, for pies, for stewing, for beef-tea, indeed, for almost every purpose. When these are not to be had, chuck steak is the best for stewing, buttock steak for broiling, and steak from the bladebone or shoulder-piece for pics. The roll of the bladebone is admi- rably adapted for making beef-tea, and beef skirting yields very rich gravy. Beef steak (a la Fmncjaise).—They are best cut from the inner side of the sirlom, but any prime part will do. Place two pounds of steaks in a dish vdih a little of the best Lucca oil, and let them steep in it for eight or ten hours; add to them pepper, salt, and a little finelv-minced parsley, and fry them until they are brown; what remains in the pan may be thrown over the steaks. Butter may be sub- stituted for oil if preferred, and the steaks served up around the dish with olive sauce in the centre. Average cost of beef, Is. 4d. per(63) pound. Time to fry, from eight to ten minutes. Sufficient for four or five persons. Beef Steak and Kidney Pudding.— Take one pound of rump steak, boat and cut it into long strips for rolling, or, if preferred, in pieces about half an inch square. Season well w-ith pepper and salt, and dredge over it a little lloui-; cut half a pound of beef kidney into thin slices, season in the same way, and lay it with, the beef into a basin lined with a good suet paste, about half an inch thick; throw in a little water and close over the top securely Avith paste. Let it boil three hours, and keep the saucepan well filled up all the time. A few mushrooms or oysters may be put into the pudding, and will be a very great improvement. Cost, rump steak, Is. 3d. to Is. 6d. per pound; kidney, lOd. Sufficient for three or four persons. Beef Steak and Cuciimbers. — When cucumbers are plentiful this makes an economical and pleasant dish. Peel and slice a large cucumber and three or four onions- Brown them in a frj'ing-pan. Broil or fry two pounds of rump steak, then put it on a dish. Simmer the cucumber and onions in half a pint of good grav)', and pour round the meat. Time, ten minutes to fry if thick. Probable cost of steak. Is. 4d. per pound. Sufficient for four persons. Beef Steak (a la Mode).—Take two pounds of rump steak that is not over-fat, lard, and put it into a stewpan with some slices of lemon. Let it cook slowly, and when all the gravy is drawn from it, add a little stock and port wine in equal quantities. Boil slowly until the broth thickens, and when ready to serve, squeeze the juice of a lemon over it. Time, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost. Is. 3d. to Is. 6d. per pound. Sufficient for three or four persons. Beef Steak, Fried.—If no gridiron is at hand, put some butter or dripping in a frying-pan and let it boil; then lay in a steak of half an inch thick and move it continually with the side of a knife or steak-tongs to pre- vent it from burning. When sufficiently well done on one side, which will be seen by the colour being well spread over the meat, tm-n it on the other, continuing to move it about with the tongs in a similar manner. If a fork must be used, do not stick it into the juicy part of the meat, but into the fat or edge. When done serve on a hot dish with a little butter (not melted) and some mushroom ketchup, tomato, or other sauce or gravy as preferred. Pro- bable cost, Is. 4d. per pound. Beefsteak, Pried (another way).—Cut the steak as for broiling; on being put into the pan, shift and turn it frequently. Let it be done brown all over, and placed in a hot dish when finished. Gravj' may be made by pour- ing a little hot water into the pan (after the Bteak is out, and the fat poured away), with a little pepper, salt, ketchup, and flour; the gravy so formed is to be poured into the dish with the steak; send to table immediately. If omons are required, cut them in thin slices, and fry till they arc soft. They should bo fried after the steak, and merely with part of the fat. Beef Steak Pie.—Take a pie-Jish accord- ing to the size required; two pounds of fresh rump steak cut into long thin sti-ips will make a good pie; lay out the strips -wdth a small piece of fat on each, a seasoning of salt and jDcppcr, and a dust of flour; two tea-spoonfuls of salt and one of pepper will be sufficient for the whole pie; roU up each strip neatly and lay it in the dish, and between each layer sprinkle a little of the seasoning and "flour; a shred onion or eschalot is sometimes liked, and a few oysters will be a great improvement; put an edging of paste round the dish, and throw in water enough to cover the rolls of meat, and lay a crust of about half an inch thick over all; ornament the top tastefully, and bake for two hours in a moderate oven. Cost of steak, Is. 3d. to Is. 6d. per pound. Sufficient for four or five persons. Beef Steak Pie with Oysters,—Three pounds of rump steak will make an excellent pie. Get beef that has been hung for some days, so that the beating process may not be required. Make a seasoning with half a dozen shalots, half an ounce of pepper and salt mixed together, a very little cayenne and pounded cloves, and a table-spoonful of flour as a thicken- ing for the gravy; di^^de the meat into pieces of two and a half inches, put a layer in the dish with the seasoning equally distributed, and some large oysters, parboiled and bearded, in alternate layers, till all is used up. Reduce the liquor of the oysters, take equal quantities of it and good gravy to make half a pint, pour it into the pie and cover with the paste. Bake for two hours or more. Sufficient for seven or eight persons. Beef Steak Pudding Baked.—Make a batter with two eggs, three-quarters of a pint of milk*, and half a pound of flour, mix smoothly, and pour a little of it into a pie-dish ; season one pound of steak and half a pound of kidney ac- cording to taste (they should be cut into small pieces), and lay them on the top of the batter; fill up the dish with the remainder and bake in a quick oven for about an hour and three-quar- ters. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Beef Steak, Roasted, and StuflTed.— Fry in a little butter the f olloA\ang ingredients, and make a forcemeat of them and two French rolls, which have been prcAdously soaked in milk; see that the frying-pan is quite clean, and put into it one ounce of butter, a slice of lean ham, well scraped, a bay-leaf, a little minced parsley, two shalots, a clove, two blades of mace, and a few mushrooms. Put the rolls into a stewpan after having squeezed out all the milk, and add to them three or four table- spoonfuls of rich stock; then put half a pint of stock to the ingredients in the frjnng-pan. boil for twenty minutes, and strain the liquid into the stewpan over the rolls, place it over the fire and stir in a little butter; when dry keep still stin-ing; then add the yolks of two eggs to bind it. Have ready two pounds ofBEE (64) BEE rump steak, cut tliick, bousou it with poppor and aalt, uud roll it up tight with tho iibovo forco- moat carofuUy onclosod, that it may not drop out. Iloast it for ono hoiu- and a half bui'oro a good, cloar liro, basting constantly witli butter, and sorve with brown gravy. I'robablo cost, 2s. lOd. Sufficient for four porsons. Beef Steak, Bump.—A good rump steak should bo about three-quarters of an iucli thick, and cut from meat that has lumg for a few days to make it tender. Pare away the binew, trim it neatly, brusli it over with oil, season well witli popper, and put it on a heated gridiron, tho bai-s of wliich have been rubbed witli good fat or suet to koop tho steak from adhering to them. Bo sure tho fire is clear before conuuoucing to broil; turn tho steak often. In from eight to ton numites ono of ordinary thickness will be done enough. Have reiidy a very hot dish on which a shalot, or onion, if preferred, has been rubbod soundly to extract the juice. Slightly warm a table- spoonful of mushroom ketchup or other beef sauce, and dish up the meat quickly with some butter on tho top, and seasoned with pepper and salt. Use quite fresh butter, or it will spoil the flavoiu' of the steak; and garnish the dish with horse-radish grated. Oyster, onion, or any other sauce liked may be served with it. Probable cost, Is. 4d. per pound. Beef Steak and Pried Potatoes.— Get steak from the fillet of the sirloin, if pos- sible, and broil it over a clear fire; the steak should be about a third of an inch thick, and turned frequently for five minutes, when it will be sufficiently cooked ; put a quarter of a pound of butter into a frying-pan, with seven or eight potatoes sliced long and thin, and fry till they become a good brown colour. The butter in which the potatoes were fried should be used to warm up the seasoning, and a tea-spoonfvd of minced herbs. When ready, put the herbs under the steak and garnish with the pota- toes. Allow half a pound of steak for each person. Beef, Stewed, and Celery Sauce.— Simmer three heads of celery and two onions in a pint of good gravy till all are tender, then add two pounds of cold boiled or roast beef cut into thick pieces, and stew gently for ten or twelve minutes. The celery should be cut evenly in pieces of about two inches long. Serve with potatoes sliced and fiied crisp. Average cost, 8d., exclusive of meat. Sufficient for fom- or five persons. Beef, Stewed, as Hare.—^^^lcn hare cannot be obtained, a good substitute for it will be found in a piece of rump of beef of suitable size. Take four or five pounds, which ctit into pieces of about three ounces. Divide into slices half a pound of bacon, and another half pound into dice, without the skin. Prepare a seasoning of the following ingredients:—A few sprigs of parsley cut small, the rind of half a lemon minced, a blade of mace, half a nutmeg grated, and a good flavouring of salt and pepper. Dust some flour over tho beef and fry in butter until it becomes light brown; do this over a quick fire that the meat may bo only slightly cooked, then lay the sUces of bacon, as a lining, round tho Btewpan; put in tlie beef and diced bacon in layers, with tlie soasouing w^ually distriljuted, and add a krgu onion stuck with lialf a dozen cloves. Make a gravy witli tlie butter in the pan, a httle broth and ludf a pint of ale; throw it over tho meat, close tho lid, and stew over a very gentle fire from three to four hours. Thicken the gravy with flour and add a gla«s of ALtdeiiu. I'robablo cost of b(;ef, Is. per pound. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Beef, Stewed, with Oysters.—Take two pounds of tender steak about an inch and a half thick. Melt two ounces of butter in a stewpan, put in the steak, and brown it lightly. Dredge a little flour over it, and pour in aa much boiling stock as will cover the bottom of the pan but not cover the meat. Add the strained liquor from a dozen and a half of oysters. Cover the pan closely, and stew the meat very gently till tender. Skim the liquor, season it with pepper and salt, and suld the oysters. Put the beef in a hot dish, and send to table with the oysters upon it and the gravy poured round it. Time to stew tho beef, about one horn- and a half. Probable cost, 4s. Beef, Stewed (French method).—Take two pounds of steak, cut thick. Brown on both sides in fat and cover with broth, IMince a small carrot, two shalots, a bay leaf, a sprig of thyme, and two ounces of bacon. Frj'^ these for a minute in butter, pour a glass of claret over them, and put the nnrepoix upon the steak. Simmer gentl)' for two hours. Strain, if necessary thicken the sauce with com flour, and add pepper and salt. Pour it over the steak, and serve. Probable cost, Is. 4d. per pound. Sufficient for four persons. Beef, Stewed (Irish method). — Divide two pounds of beef into small pieces—any part will do—and put them into an earthenware pan with a light-fitting cover, with a pint and a half of water, two or three onions, a carrot cut up. and a little salt and pepper. Stew all together in the oven for an hour or more. Lay on the top some peeled potatoes, cover up and put it back into the oven for an hour and a haK more, when the potatoes will be reduced to a mash, and the stew will be, as all Irish stews are, ex- cellent. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for four or five persons. {See Iiish Stew). Beef Stewed in Beer.—Take eight pounds of the silver-side of the round, hang it some days—as the weather wiU permit—to make it tender. Trim it, and bind it firmly, then put it into a stewpan with a liquid composed of part mild beer and water, to nearly covei- the meat. Add a few slices of bacon, two onions, some cloves, a bay-leaf, a small cup of vinegar, a table-spoonful of treacle, and the same of any sauce, according to taste. Let it simjner for three hours; remove the scum as it rises, and when done, take out the beef on a dish, strain and thicken the gravy ; add pepper and salt, and throw all over the meat. Probable cost, 78. 6d.BEE ( 65 ) BEE Beef, Stewed, Leg of.-M^ke a force- meat of one pound and a quai-tor of fiuely-ahred Buet, some savoury and marjoram, a few cloves pounded, and a little pepper and salt, mixing all well together. Make several good-sized holes in a part of a leg of beef (about six or seven pounds will do), that has had salt rubbed over it for two or three days previous, and fill them with the forcemeat. Put it into a deep baking-pan with some of the forcemeat over the top, and the pan more than half full of water. Keep the pan closely covered, and let the moat stew for four hours. The forcemeat from the top will serve to garnish, and may be cut into any form for the purpose. That pressed into the meat, if lightly put in, will much im- prove the flavour. Probable cost, 7d. per pound. Sufficient for seven or eight persons. Beef Stock.—Bone a rump of beef and tie it neatly together; break the bones and place both into a stewpan with two quarts of water to every three poimds of meat. Heat it very gradually and slowly by the side of the fire, re- moving the scum before and after it boUs. Add salt in proportion to the water, about two ounces to the gallon. When all the scum has been re- moved, throw in three or four carrots, and the same of turnips, a small head of celerj', a few yoimg leeks, an onion stuck with eight cloves, a small tea-spoonful of peppercorns, and a bunch of savoury herbs. Let this stew for five hours very gently, when the beef will be done, but not overdone. It may be served with young cab- "bages, boiled in the usual way, pressed, and then stewed for seven or eight minutes in some of the beef stock or broth. This broth, in France, is made the basis of all soups and gravies, and with the addition of a knuckle of veal, poultry trimmings, a calf's foot, and a little ham, it will make a strong rich stock. If wanted to be used ^it the same time with the meat, strain, remove the fat, and serve with toasted bread. Beef Suet for Piecrust.—Shred some 8uet and clear it from all sidn and fibre, put it into a basin, cover it with boiling water, and place it on a hot plate, or near the fire. When melted, pass it through a strainer into another vessel containing boHing water, and when cold, pierce the fat and let the water run out. If any sediment remain it will be found on the under- side of the caked fat, and can be scraped off with a knife. Suet thus prepared, with the ad- dition of a little lard or oil, can be worked into the consistency of butter, and may be used with success in making crusts for meat pies. Drip- ping may be cleansed in the same manner. Its adaptation to many purposes wiU depend on the management in clarifying, &c. Beef Tea,—Take a pound of lean, fleshy beef, put it into a basin containing one quart of cold water, first cutting it into very small bits; let it soak in this water an hour or more, then put both water and beef into a clean saucepan and bring it to a boil; put in a little salt and take off the scum as it appears; simmer very gently, and strain for use in little less than an hour. When warmed up again, it should not bo put into a saucepan, but heated by setting the cup of tea into boiling water. Cost, about Is. 4d, per quart. D Beef Tea (another way).—Use for this, not an iron saucepan, but an earthen pot with a well-fitting lid, which will stand, without cracking, the heat of the iron plate on the top of the cooking-stove. Fill it from one-third to a quarter full of good lean beef, cut into shapely pieces the size of a small walnut, in order that they may be presentable afterwards in a rata- touille, or as potted beef, seasoning slightly with salt and a few whole peppercorns. Then pour on cold water nearly to the brim, and set it on the plate or top of a cooking-stove to simmer gently several hours, taking off any scum and fat that may rise. The beef may be taken out when done enough, or it may be left in the pot until all the strengtii from it has been extracted. Stir with a spoon before serving a portion, in order to have the nutritious particles which have sunk to the bottom suspended in the tea. Where there is no cooking-stove, the beef tea may be slowly cooked by setting the earthen pot containing it in a large iron vessel of boiling water, or, if the lid is luted down with paste, it may be made in a very slow oven. Beef Tea from Fresh Meat (Baron LiEBiG s Recipe).—Take one pound of lean beef, entirely free from fat and sinew; mince it finely and mix it well with one pint of cold water. Put it on the hob, and let it remain heating very gradually for two hours. At the end of that time, add half a tea-spoonful of salt and boil gently for ten minutes. Remove the scum as it rises. This is beef tea pure and aimple. When a change of flavour is required, it is a good plan to take one pound of meat composed of equal parts of veal, mutton, and beef, and proceed as above. Or, instead of using water, boil a carrot, a turnip, an onion, and a clove, in a pint of water, and when the flavour is extracted strain the liquid through a fine sieve; let it get quite cold, and pour it upon the minced meat, soaking and boiling it for the same time Probable cost. Is. per pint. Sufficient for one pint of beef tea. Beef Tea of Mixed Meat.—To some invalids the taste of beef tea is unwelcome; the fiavour is much improved by the following mixture :—Take equal quantities of bee^ mutton, and veal, one pound of each, without fat, put them, cut up in small pieces, to simmei four hours in three pints of water. When boil- ing, sldm thoroughly and draw the saucepan aside, that it may only extract the juices without wasting the liquid. Strain and serve with dry toast in any form. Time, four hours. Cost of meat, about Is. per pound. Beef Tea, Strong.—AUow two pounds of lean meat to one quart of water, put it into a jar and place it in a pan of boiling water. The meat should be well cut up, and the top of the jar secured so that no water may enter. Boil gently for four or five hours, strain and squeeze out all the tea. This may be flavoured with onion, clove, &c., according to the taste of the invalid and strength of the stomach. Sufficient to make a pint of tea. Beef to imitate Venison.—Take three pounds of rump, sirloin, or buttock, without bone —the loin is best. Lay it in a pan and throwBEE BEE ( 06 ) over it ono glass of vinegar and a glass of port wine, having previously rubbed it with four ounces of sugar. Keep in a cool, di-y pluce, and turn it ofteu. In five or six days it will Ijo ready ; thou make a raised crust, season witli salt, cayenne, and maco, jiut some butter over the top of the cover, and bako four hours in a slow oven. Boil down the bones to make gravy, add a glass of port Avino, strain, and poui- boil- ing into the pie. Probable cost of meat, Is. per pound. Sufficient for six persons. Beef Tongue {see Bullock's Tongue ; Ox Tongue). Beef Tripe, To Boil.—Cut the tripe into small pieces and put into hot milk and water, equal parts, sufficient to cover it, and boil until tender, which will be in about two hours. Get ready some onion sauce, prepared as given below, and when tl\e tripe is dished throw it over. Peel some onions and let them remain a few minutes in salted water; then boil them till tender, changing the water when half done. If Spanish onions are used it will not be neces- sary. Drain them thoroughly, chop them, and add to them some sauce composed of two ounces of butter, three-quarters of a pint of milk, and a tea-spoonful of flour. Put the onions to the butter and boil for a minute before adding to the tripe. Cost, about 8d. per pound. Beef Tripe, To Fricassee. — Stew gently in milk and water, two pounds of tripe, cut into strips of equal lengths, with a bunch of parsley and an onion. When it has simmered one hour add the peel of half a lemon, an ounce of butter rubbed in flour, and a quarter of a pint of cream. Season with grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper, and when it has simmered another hour sei^ve with the sauce over, and an edging of rice round the dish. Probable cost. Is. 8d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Beef Tripe, To Roast. — Boil two poimds of tripe for an hour or more, and then cut into convenient-sized pieces. Spread them out, and lay over each a rich veal stuffing. Skewer and tie securely into rolls. Baste con- tinually with butter, and di-edge flour over them. They may either be spitted or baked in an oven. Serve with sliced lemon and immelted butter. Probable cost, 8d. per pound for the best tripe. Time to roast, three-quarters of an hour. Sufficient for four or five persons. Beef, with Sauce Espagnole. — Lard a piece of the inside tiUet (from four to five pounds wiU be a nice size) and lay it —seasoned with salt and pepper—in vinegar for ten or twelve hours. Put it immediately to roast before a quick fire, baste well with butter and the drippings from the meat. When done, glaze over the top, and serve Avith _ the above sauce ( CC3 various recipes for Spanish Sauce). Time to roast, quarter of an hour to the pound. Beef with Wino Sauce Tremblant. —Hang a piece of rump (it should not be a small piece), or part of a brisket, for some days; than simmer it in a stewpan with some allspice, a carrot, two onions, two tur- nips, and salt to taste, till it is done enough. Dissolve a picco of butter in a clean stevpan, and mix into it a dessert-spoonful of floui. Add ono pint of gravy, a gkssful of whit* wino, and equal quantities of ketchup and browning. Tlien cut up two carrots and two turnips, flavour all witli salt and pepper, and stew until the vegetables arc quite tender. Put the meat on a dish, and pour all, first clearing it from any fat, over it. The meat may be glazed or browned with a siilamander, before thr sauce is poured over. Probable cost, Is. pti pound. Time, twenty minutes to the pound. Beef, with Yorkshire Pudding.— Take eggs, flour, and milk, according to tho size of the pudding required. AUow an egg u, every heaped table-spoonful of flour, and salt to taste. Beat it to a prop(;r consistency with good new milk; it should bo thinner than for boiled batter. If this pudding be not required for a large family a separate compartment may be used for it, and the other part of the drip- ping-pan may receive the gravy required to throw over the meat. In any case, place the dripping-pan and joint to the fire tUl the fat begins to flow, before the batter is put in, and stir it roimd in the basin that no sediment may remain. See that it cooks evenly and that the edges are not burned, and when done sufficiently turn if liked. Some prefer it browned on one side only. The usual thickness is abeut an inch when well browned on both sides. Di-vide into pieces sufficient for each person, and send it to table quickly. It should be put into the di'ipping just in time to get it done with the meat. Time, one and a half to two hours. Beer, How to Treat "Foxed."— "Poxed" beer has a rank unpleasant ta.s-te, and may be known by the white specks float- ing on its surface. To remedy this, infuse a handful of hops and a little salt of tartar in a pint of boihng water, and, when cold, strain and pour into the cask, closing the bunghole at once. Beer Soup (German method).—Simmer two quarts of mild beer (it should not be bitter) with the thin rind of a lemon, a few cloves, and a stick of cinnamon, sweeten -with sugar, and add it through a sieve to the yolks of six weU- beaten eggs and half a pint of cream. Whilst pouring into the tureen, stir it to a froth with a wire whisk. The beer should be very hot, -without boiling, before it is stirred with the eggs. Serve hot with toast. Time, about half an hour to simmer. Probable cost, 9d. per quart. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Beer Soup with Caraway Seeds.-7 Boil some brown bread in a little water imlil soft enough to be beaten to a smooth pulp; put three pints of beer into the soup kettle with a Httle lemon-peel, cinnamon, sugar, and a large tea-spoonful of caraway seeds; mix the bread- pulp to the beer, and boil aU together till the flavour is extracted from the seeds: then beat up four eggs in the tureen, and pour the soup upon them, stiiTing briskly all the time. Serve hot. Time to boQ the beer, about twenty minutes. Probable cost, 4d. per pint. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Beer Soup with Milk.—Take equal quantities of beer and milk (one quart of each) ;BEE BEH mix two table-spoonfuls of flour with a little of the beer, iind acid it to the remainder with the £?rdted peel of half a lemon, half a tea-spoon- ful of powdered ginger, cinnamon, or nutmeg, and su'mrto taste ; boil the milk septu-ately and atir it ^rapidly with a whisk into four well-beaten eggs; put the beer with the milk into a sauce- pan, bring it to the point of boiling, keeping it woU stii-red aU the time, and tui-n it quicKly into a tureen. Serve ^\•ith toasted rolls. Time, about half an hour to prepare. Probable cost, 9d. per quai't. Sufficient for twelve persons. Beer Soup with Sago.—Wash two ounces of stigo in cold water, drain and boil it in thi-ee pints of ale that is not bitter, add a stick of cinnamon or a few cloves, the thin rind of half a lemon, and sugar to taste; boil twenty minutes, strain, and add, just before serving, the half of a thinly-sKced lemon and a glass of brandy or rum. Probable cost, lOd., without the spirits. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Beer, To remove acidity from.—Add one pint of ground malt to about eighteen gallons of beer; it should b« enclosed in a bag and hung, not thrown, to lie at the bottom; or, mix as much wheat or bean flour with a quart of brandy as will form a dough. Long pieces of this dough, put into the bunghole, will sink gently to the bottom and keep the beer mellow as well as improve its quality. Carbonate of soda will remove sourness from beer, but care should be taken not to add too much or it will have a dead insipid flavour. Beetroot, Baked. — Cleanse the root I carefully from the mould about it, as directed j for boUing, and bake in a moderate oven until tender. We do not, however, like the baking I of this vegetable, as it is apt to shiivel if ex- { posed to too great heat in an oven, and the colour becomes less bright. They are much better boiled. Probable cost, Id. to 2d. Bake till tender. Beetroot, Boiled. This root is excellent ' as a salad, and, as a garnish for other salads, it \ is very important on account of its beautiful j bright colour. In cleansing it before boiling, ! take care not to break the skin or it will lose its colour and become sickly looking. Eemove it from the saucepan carefully, peel and trim nicely. Serve, cut in slices, with melted butter ! in a tureen, or if not over large it may be sent to i table whole. A large one ynU. take from two i to three hours to boil. Probable cost from Id. ; to 2d. each. J Beetroot, Pickled.- Boil half an ounce of peppercorns, cloves, mace, and ginger, in a pint of vinegar, add another pint when cold. Take six beetroots, after they have been weU cleansed, and boil them gently for two hours. When cold, peel, slice, and put into a jar with the cold vinegar and spice. It is fit for use at once. Probable cost, 2s. 2d. Beetroot Preserve.—Put into a pre- serving pan half a dozen nicely-peeled beetroots and a pint and a half of cold water, first cut- ' ing away the long tapering part, that they may lie_ better in the pan; let them come to a boil, and then simmer and skim for twenty minutes; add the following ingredients and boil faster for an hour more. Four pounds of good loaf sugar, well broken, the Juico of half a dozen lemons (strained), and the peel of four,, cut very small, some vanilla and cinnamon, about half a finger's length of each, and three or four- cloves. When boiling, sldm well, and. when quite tender put the beetroots into a jar, but leave the syrup to boil untU it is thick, when it may be strained over them. When a beautiful colour is wanted for creams, jellies, &c., this preserve and syrup will be fouad valuable. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. Beetroot Salad.—To some niceiy-boiled and well-shccd beetroot, lay alternate rows of" fresh onion also shced, and pour over them any salad sauce, or simply oil and vinegar, if pre- ferred. Garnish with curled parsley. Pro- bable cost of beetroot, Id. to 2d. Instead oF the raw onions, cold boiled ones may be used, together with slices of egg, hard boiled. Beetroot Salad (another way).—Parboil a beetroot, remove the skin, cut it into thin slices, and stew with small onions in a little gravy- thickened -with flour and cream. Add a dessert- spoonful of vinegar, seasonings, and a little sugar. Spread the sliced beetroot on the dish, placing the onions between them. It is served cold with cheese, and with vinegar poui-ed over. Beetroot Soup.—Cleanse carefully, "boil, and peel two ,fine beetroots; boil also two onions and mince them together very finely. Take thi-ee or four table-spoonfuls of vinegai and one of brown sugar, with rather more than half a gallon of good gravy soup; add this to the mixture of beetroot and onion, and put it into a saucepan to boil, when some small piece* of cold veal or other meat, well covered with flour, may be boiled and served up in it. Pro- bable cost, without gravy, 6d. Time to boU, until the onions are tender. • Beetroot, Stewed.—Wash and boil, till tender, a medium-sized beetroot. Eemove the skin, and cut it into thin slices. Ivoll half an ounce of butter in flour, and melt it in rather more than half a pint of water, adding a table- spoonful of vinegar, and salt and pepper to taste. Put the slices of beet into the liquid,^ cover the saucepan closely, and allow all to stew for an horn- and ten minutes. Care must be taken not to cut the beetroot before boiling, ae- the colour- would be desti'oyed by so doing- Serve the stew with a garnish of boiled button, onions. Bermuda Pudding.—Put a pint and a. half of fresh juicy fruit, raspberries, straw- berries, or red currants, into a jar with some sugar, and two table-spoonfuls of water. Cover the jar, set it in a cool ovon, and let it remain until the juice flows freely, whon it- may be strained off. For a pint of juice put- three table-spoonfuls of Bermuda arrowroot, into a cup and mix it to a smooth paste with a. tea-cupful of cold water, or fruit juice if it V5 to be had. Pour the boiling fruit upc«i it, stir it well, tlien put the mixture back into the saucepan, and stir again until it is quito thick. ' Take it off the fire and add (!r>clnn«il. to improve the colour. Pour the pvop-intior*BER ( 68 ) BIS into a damp mould, and loavo it until tho next day. Turn it upon a glass dish and servo with milk or cream. Bermuda Witches.—Spread stniwboiTy, raapborry, up})lo jelly, or prosorvo of any kind without stones, over slices of Savoy or rico cako, which must bo cut exceedingly thin and evon. Spread unsparingly over the preserve finoly-gratnd cocoa-nut ; cover over with a similar slice of cako, and after pressing all together, cut tliom into any form desired. The square fonn is generally thought most suitable, and each slice of cake may bo divided into the size desired before the preserve is l)ut on, but they will always require some trim- ming. Bend them to table arranged prettily on a naplcin, and garnished with myrtle sprigs. Bernese Pudding.—Beat up tho yolks and whites of two eggs ^\•ith a quarter of a pint of milk, and add two ounces of vary lino broad-crumbs and tho same quantity of flour; take a quarter of a pound of suet, finely shred, tho same of mixed candied peel, chopped, the rind and juice of a lemon, the quarter of a small nutmeg grated, and equal quantities of sugar and currants. Mix these ingredients for ten minutes, and put them aside for an hour. Stir all round, pour into a buttered pudding-dish, and lay a floured cloth over the top. Place it in boiling water and boil for three hours and a half. Serve with sugar over the top. Probable cost, Is. 3d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Beverages, Refreshing Summer.— Peel, core, and quarter some apples, and boil them in water until they can be mashed through a colander; one pound of apples to a gallon of ■water will be an economical and pleasant drink, and when boiled up again, with the addition of half a pound of brown sugar, and well skimmed, may be bottled for use. The bottles should not be corked tight. A piece of bread very much toasted, and added to the above, is re- commended for invalids. For a spring drink, having very cooling properties, rhubarb should he boiled as above, adding a little more sugar, or, one gallon of cold water added to three lemons, sliced and bruised, with half a pound of sugar. For a summer beverage, a mixture of red currants and raspberries bruised, with half a pound of sugar and well stirred into a gallon of water, will be found excellent to allay thirst; and to render them more cooling, a little cream of tartar or citric acid may be added. Biffins.—These apples are prepared by ex- posure to a very gentle heat, and the process is long. They require to be put into a cool oven many times, perhaps seven or eight, and to be pressed after each baking. If the oven be too hot at first, the biffins will waste, and the dressing must be slowly and gently done. The lied Biffin or Minshul Crab are the sorts selected for drying. They should be stewed either in milk or wine. Birch Wine.—Tliis wine is sometimes made simply by boiling the sap of the birch- troc with sugar and adding a little lemon-peel. Whore other ingredients are added, the quantity of sugar is lessened. Allow three pounds of sugar, one of raisins, and an ounce of almonds, to each gallon of sap. Boil all together lialf an hour and skim; put it into a tub with some fresh yeast as soon as it has become cold, and in four or five days after it lias fonnentod strain olf into a cask. Tie up some almonds in a muslin bug, put them with tho wine until it has done fermenting, when they must be re- moved and the cask closed up for four or five months. It must then be racked off and bottled for use. Probable cost, 2s. 3d. a gallon. Bird's Nest Pudding. — Make the foundation of tho nest of blancmange, calf's foot jelly, or prepared com. Itasp the linds of three lemons and lay it round and on tho blanc- mange like the straw. Take out the contents of four eggs through a small hole, and fill the shells with hot blancmange, or prepared com; when cold, break off tho shells, and lay the egg-shaped blancmange in the nest. Birthday Syllabub.—Take of port and sherry each a pint, mix them with half a pint of brandy and a nutmeg grated; squeeze and strain the juice of two lemons into a large bowl and over half a pound of loaf sugar well broken into small pieces; stir the wine mixture into the bowl with the lemon-juice and sugar, and add new milk to it, or, if possible, milk the cow into it. This quantity of wine, &c., is suf- ficient for two quarts of milk. Probable cost, about Is. 3d., without the wine and brandy. Biscuit Drops.—Mix half a pound of flour with half a tea-spoonful of baking powder. Rub in four ounces of dripping, and add two ounces of sugar, two ounces of chopped peel, four ounces of currants, and the grated rind of a lemon. Mix to a very stiff paste with one egg and a little milk. Drop the mixture in very small lumps on a floured tin, and bake in a good oven. Biscuit Powder.—Biscuits may be re- duced to a fine powder, by first drying them in a cool oven, and then rolling them with a common rolling-pin on a clean board. This kind of powdered biscuit is much used for infants' food. It should be passed through a sieve after rolling, and will then be fine enough for any purpose. Keep dry in a tin with a tight cover. Biscuits.—Recipes for preparing the fol- lowing varieties of biscuits will be found under their respective headings:— Abernetiiy Dover Albert Finger Almond Spicb Fruit American German Arrowroot Ginger Bread, Brown Ladies' Winb Breakfast Leman's Captains Lemon Caraway Lemon Rock Chocolatb Macaroons Cinnamon Majesty's Cream Milan Crisp Naples Damascus Peach Dessert Potato Devilled PUDDINOBIS SLA Raspbekky Sugau Ratafia SwAlilAN Rice Sweet Rock Swiss Russian Tea Savoy Venetian Sicilian "Victoria Soda Vienna Spanish Wafer Spice Nuts Water Sponge Wine. Biscuits, Hard—Warm half a pound of butter in as much skimmed milk as will make four pounds of flour into a very stiff paste. Beat it with a rolling-pin, and work it until it becomes perfectly smooth. Roll it very thin,, and cut icto biscuits with a tin shape or a large cup. Prick them freely with a fork, and bake for six or eight minutes in a moderate oven. Biscuits, Plain.—Make one pound of flour into a stiff paste with the yolk of an egg well beaten in a little milk. Too much milk will make the biscuits thin and heavy. Beat the paste and knead till smooth. Roll out thin, and with a round tin-cutter form into biscuits. Bake in a slow oven. Time, twelve to eighteen minutes. Probable cost, 4d. per poimd. Bishop Oxford Nightcap.—Take two drachms each of cloves, mace, ginger, cinnamon, and allspice, boil them for thirty minutes in half a pint of water, and strain. Put part of a bottle of port in a saucepan over the fire, add the spiced infusion and a roasted lemon stuck with six cloves. Take four ounces of sugar in lumps and grate the outer rind of a small lemon, place them in a punch-bowl, and add the juice of the lemon, pour in the hot wine, &c., then the remainder of the bottle of port, and serve. A Seville orange may be roasted instead of a lemon. Blackberry Jam.—This will be found a cheap and wholesome preserve, and if mixed with apples will be greatly relieved of the in- sipid flatness frequently complained of. Any sharp-flavoured apple will do, but the Wel- lington or Dumeloro's seedling is particularly recommended for this purpose. Blackberries alone require half their weight in sugar, and three-quarters of an hour to boil, but when mixed with apples more sugar must be given. Blackberry Syrup.—Press out the juice from very ripe blackberries, and to each pint add one pound of brown sugar boiled in a pint of water to a rich sjrrup; allow it to boil for fifteen or twenty minutes, stirring it well; put a wine-glassful of brandy to each quart. When quite cold bottlo for use. Probable cost, without brandy. Is. 6d. per quart Blackberry Wine.—Put any quantity of blackberries into a jar or pan, cover them with boiling water, and allow them to stand in a cool oven aU night to draw out the juice ; or they may be mashed with the hand. Strain through a sieve into a jar or cask, and let it ferment for fifteen days. Then add one pound of sugar to every gallon of juice, with a quarter of a pint of gin or brandy. The berries should be gathered ripe and on a fine dry day. Pro- bable cost of blackberries, from 8d. to 3 s. per gallon. Black Cap Pudding.—Make a good batter pudding. Pick and wash a quarter of a pound of currants, which lay at the bottom of a mould previously well buttered; pour the batter in over them and boil two hours. When turned out the currants will be on the top; this forms the black cap. Probable cost of custard per pint, 7d. Black Caps {see Apple Black Caps). Blaok Cock, Roasted.—This bird is hard, dry, and flavouiless, if not well hung; but the flavour is remarkably fine when it has been kept until it shows some little symptom of having been himg enough. Pick and draw, but do not wash the inside; a dry cloth will be all that is necessary. Truss it like a fowl. Some like the head under the wing, but the former mode is most general. Place it before a brisk fire, and baste unsparingly with butter tiU done. It will take nearly one hour, if a fine male bird, but three-quarters of an hour will be enough for one of moderate size. Dip a piece of thick toast into a little lemon-juice, and lay it in the dripping-pan under the bird ten minutes before it is to be taken from the fire. Serve with the toast under, and a rich brown gravy and bread sauce. Probable cost, 5s. 6d. to 6s. per brace. Black Cock, Stewed.—Joint the black cock in the same way as an ordinary fowl, and fry in plenty of butter until nicely browned, with a clove of garHc, which should be removed before the stewing is commenced. Put a small wine-glassful of stock and two of port wine, and a seasoning of salt and pepper into the frying- pan with the butter, make a nice gravy, then put the black cock into a stowpan, throw the gravy over, and simmer very gently about half an hour, or until tender. Serve the meat high on the dish, and the gravy with sippets of toast around it. Old birds are best done in this way; they require more time. Probable cost, 5s. 6d. to 6s. per brace. Black Currant Cheese.—Gather the fruit on a d^y day, and when the sun is on it. See that it is quite ripe, and remove the stalks and tops. Take equal quantities, by weight, of good loaf sugar—the best is the cheapest—and of currants; place them in a pre- serving-pan over a slow fire, or by the side of the fire, till the sugar has dissolved a little, then bring it gradually to a boU, stirring it carefully all the time, and removing the scum. Simmer for an hour or more, when the currants may be passed through a hair sieve, and it is ready for putting into moulds for use. Pro- bable cost, about Is. 3d. per pound. Black Currant Geneva Liquor.— Get a large stone jar, with a small mouth, break some sugar-candy into small pieces, and put one pound of candy to each quart of fruit into it. Add two or three cloves and a pint and a half of gin; cork the jar tightly andBLA BLA «hako it often for tho first month or so. It will 1)6 lit for uso in uhont six weeks, and hUouUI 1)o ehmr when poured off. The curnints whould bo s^iitliered iil'tcr two succoHsivo dry days, and ihoy ouj^-lit to bo tlioroughly, but not over riiMJ. Probable cost of eurrtints, about 8d. per quart. Black Currant Jam.—Tho fruit should be jjfathered on a fine day, and should bo rii)e and well froi^d from tho stiilks and tops. Put tlmH3 quarters of a pound of aw^nv to one jjound of fruit. I'lace sugar and fruit in a profiorviuf;- pan, and -lUow it to stand near or by the side of tho tire until tlio sugar has dissolved, th(>n stir it, and bring it to tlio boil. It must be well skimmed, aiid will require greater attention on this head if brown sugar be used instead of loaf. Simmer till it will atifEon, and put into pota for uso. Probable cost, 8d. per or^ary jam pot. {See also Curraat Jam, Black.) Black Currant Jelly.—To every pint •of j uico obtained, after pressing and straining, from well-riponcd fruit, allow one pound of loaf sugar. When the juice has come to the boil, skim well and add the sugar; stir the jelly steadily till all the sugar has disappeared, and boil, not simmei\ for about eight or nine saiinutes. If not thick enough, which may be ascertained by dropping some on a cold plate, ioil a little longer. "When cold, put into pots for use, and fasten down -with paper made to adhere to the pots with white of egg. Pro- vable cost, from 8d. to lOd. per half-pound pot. (See also Currant Jelly, Black.) Black Currant Lozenges.—Mix two ounces of brown sugar with half a pint of black currant juice.. Put the liquid into an enamelled saucepan, add a table-spoonful of dissolved isinglass, and let it simmer gently for three- quiirters of an hour. Pour it over small plates in layers about the eighth of an inch in thick- ness, and let those plates be kept in a screen, a cool oven, or any warm place imtil the mix- ture is dry and hard, then take it off, keep it in a tin box with a sheet of paper between each layer, and stamp it into shapes as required. These lozenges arc very palatable and excellent for coughs, colds, and sore throats. Probable <;ost, 4d. per ounce. Black Currant Pudding.—Butter a basin and line it with pudding paste. To a pint and a half of fruit mix six ounces of «ugar. The currants should be dry or they will make too much juice. Mix the sugar well up ■with the fruit before it is put into the basin; boil one hour and a half. Or a pudding may bo baked in this way :—Stew for about quarter of an hour, in as much milk as will •cover it, a tea-cupful of rice made sweet with two ounces of sugar. Take care it does not bum, and when done and nearlj'' cool, stir in an ounce of butter and three well-beaten eggs with three table-spoonfuls of cream. Lay some currants in a pie-dish, add sugar (they require a, good deal), and throw the mixture over thorn. Bake at once for half an hour; one hoTir to cook the fruit will bo sulRcient. May be used hot or cold. Probable cost, Is. 3d. SuScicnt for five or six persons. Black Currant Preserve. — Dry thorcjuglily, cut oif the licads and stalks and put tlio black currants into a preserving-pan with Bonio red currant juice, lutlf a pint to 8 pound of tho black curmnts, and a ixjurid and a lialf of good sifted loaf sugar. Make it boil up, remove tlio scum, carefully scraping olf th<! fruit from tho sides of the pan. Shake it but do not mash the cunants. Allow it to boil from ten to fifteen minutes. Put into jars, and when cool cover closely. It is fit for tarts or excellent with cream. Probable cost, Cd, to 8d. per half pound pot. Black Ciirrant Tart.—Put a pint and a half of black currants and three ounces of .brown sugar into a tart-dish, lay a deep saucer in tho bottom to hold the juice, or it wiU run over and spoil the appearance of the tart ; put a neat edging of paste round the dish, and aliso cover it over tho top. Ornament according to taste, and bake in a brisk oven. When sent to table, powdered white sugar should be sprinkled thicldy over the top. Time, three-quarters of an hour to bake. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for five or six persons. Black Currant Wine. — Put equal quantities of currant juice and water into a cask with three pounds and a half of sugar to two gallons of the mixture, and place it in a warm place. ^Vhen it has fermented, take off the refuse ; keep the cask fiUed up with juice, and add a quart of brandy to everj' six gallons directly the fermentation ceases. The cask must then be closed up for eight or nine months, when it may be bottled off; but it will not be fit for use until it has been at least twelve months in bottle. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. per gallon. Black Lozenges.—Take half a pound of gum tragacanth in powder ; add four oimces of powdered loaf sugar and five ounces of extract of liquorice. Make into a smooth paste with water, roll out thin, cut into diamond-shaped lozenges, and dry in a cool place. Black Pudding.—Well cleanse and steep pigs' entrails in cold water, irntU they are requu'cd. To one pint of fresh-drawn pigs' blood, take three pints of onions; chop them very fine, and cook them till they are nearly or three-quarters done, in a saucepan, with the least drop of water at the bottom, stirring them all the whUe, to prevent them brown- ing. Take two pounds of fresh pork, with- out bone, fat and lean in equal proportions; chop it up fine. Mix well together the m.inced pork, the onions, and the pigs' blood, seasoning with salt, pepper, and allspice, or mixed spices ground together. Tie one end of a sausage-skin, and, by means of a funnel or sausage-stufler, fill it at the other with the mixed ingredients. Fasten the upper end ol the pudding, coil it into the desired shape, or tie it into short lengths, and throw it into boiling water, which must be kept hoiUng for twenty or twenty-five minutes, according to the thicloioss of" the pudding. "Tiike it out, and set it aside to cool; keep in cold water until it is wanted for use. So pre- pared, it will keep good two or three daj-s inBLA suiHiuor, a week in -winter. When wanted to serve, broil gently over a slow fire; but this requires greiit care, to prevent the skin from crackmg. The best way is to sot it for a few minutes in the oven of a cooking-stove, or in a Dutch or American oven, in front of an open kitchen-range. Black Puddings (another way).—Boil and dry three-quartci-a of a pound of rice; cut away all the crust from a quartern loaf, and throw two quarts of new milk on it. When the milk is absorbed by the bread, mix it with ; the rice, and a quart of blood from a fresh- killed pig. Have ready a seasoning of nutmeg, aUspice, and ground ginger (a quarter of an ounce of each), a table-spoonful of onion and . chopped thjTue, the same of salt, half the quantity of black pepper, and a dozen cloves, all pounded; add these, with two pounds of well- shi-ed sues and five or six well-beaten eggs, to the rice. Mix all well together, and add about two poimds of the inner fat of a pig cut into dice. When the ingredients are sufficiently blended press into sausage-skins, which must be only partly filled, to allow the meat to swell, so as to prevent bursting. Straw is generally laid in the bottom of the boiler, and the puddings are pricked, tiea into links, and boiled for at least one hour. When taken up they must be laid out on a cloth to dry, and then hung up for use. To warm, lay them in boil- ing water in a deep dish, and then toast before the fire or on a gridiron. Probable cost, 4s. Sufficient for twelve large puddings. Black Puddings (a la Fran(;aise).— Mince four large onions very fine, and stew them in lard with a tea-spoonful of minced parsley, pepper, salt, and allspice to taste, and a quarter of a pound of pork fat, cut into small dice. Stir two pints of pigs' blood while hot, with a little vinegar, a table-spoon- ful to a quart to prevent clotting, and mix it well with the seasoning. Fill the skins and divide them by strings into the length wished ; they may be stewed for twenty minutes, or merely thrown into boiling water till firm. To try if they are sufficiently done, a large needle is used: if only fat flows they may be hung up to dry; they should then bo rubbed over with butter, and tied up in a muslin bag, to give them a glossy appearance. When used they should be boiled long enough to heat them through, or cut into slices and fried. Blanch., To.—To blanch meat or vegetables is to plunge them into boiling water for a given length of time, generally two or three minutes; then throw them into a bowl of spring water and leave them until cold. With meat this is done for the purpose of giving firmness to the flesh, and thus facilitating the operation of larding, and also to preser\'e the whiteness of certain meats, such as rabbits or fowls. With vegetables it is done to keep them green, and to take away their acrid flavour. Ox tongues, palates, and almonds, fruit kernels, &c., are said to be blanched, when through the action of hot water the skin can be easily peeled off; calves' heads and feet are blanched to soften them, and thus make them easier to trim and prepare for cooking, and for this the cold water is not required. Blancmange.—Blanch ten (only) bitter and two ounces of sweet almonds, and pound them to a paste, adding by degrees a third of a pint of cold water ; let it stand till settled, and strain off the liquid. Put into a pint of milk five ounces of loaf sugar, two inches of stick vanilla, and two of cinnamon, and pour it into an enamelled saucepan. Boil slowly tUl the sugar is dissolved, then stir in one ounce of isinglass, and strain all into a basin; add the liquid from the almonds, with a gill of cream. When cold, pour the mixture into a mould and place it in a cool place till it is firmly set. Probable cost, about 2s. Sufficient to fill a quart mould. Blancmange (anotherway).—Dissolve in a saucepan, over a gentle fire, two ounces of the best isiaglass in two pints of new milk. Add the rind of a lemon and a pint of cream ; boU for a quarter of an hour and take out the rind. Sweeten, and flavour either with cinnamon, rose, or orange-flower water, or vaniUa. While cooling, stir in a little white wine and brandy, pour into moulds, and allow it to become fixed in a cool place. Blancmange (another way).—Dissolve one ounce of isinglass or gelatine, and pour over it a pint of boilmg mUk. Stir till quite dissolved. Simmer two ounces of sweet and one ounce of bitter almonds, in an additional half-pint of mUk or cream until pleasantly flavoured. Add sugar to taste, then mix with the dissolved gelatine. Strain into a mould, and turn out next day. Garnish with flowers and blanched sweet almonds. Blancmange, American.—Mix one ounce of arrowroot with a tea-cupful of cold water, and let it stand some minutes, until the arrowroot is settled. Pour off the water, and substitute a little orange-flower or laurel water. Boil with a pint of new milk, a stick of cinna- mon, the thinly-cut rind of a lemon, or any seasoning that may be preferred. Pour it when I boiling upon the arrowroot, stirring all the time. Put it into a mould, set it in a cool I place, and it will be ready for use the following day. Time to boil, a few minutes. Sufficient for a pint mould. Probable cost. 6d. Blancmange, American (another way).—Prepare a paste as directed in Blanc- mange, but with eight or ten pounded Brazil nuts instead of almonds. Beat up four eggs, and add gradually five tea-spoonfuls of Oswegc or Indian corn-flour. Dissolve four ounces of loaf sugar in a pint of new miUc, add the liquor of the nuts, and simmer for five minutes, and draw it off the fire for another five minutes ; then strain in the eggs, stirring quickly over a slow fire until it thickens. Pour the mixture into a mould, and let it stand in a cool place until it becomes firm. Probable cost. Is. Sufficient for a pint and a haH mould. Blancmange, Bice.—Blanch almonds and pound to a paste, as already directed for blancmange, using a little more cold water.BLO (72) BOI Boil throo ounces of rioo, thrco ounces of loaf sugar, tho rind of half a lemon, a pioco of cinnamon, and a stick of vanilla, with a pint and a half of now milk. When tho rico is boilod to a pulj}, add tho almond jjasto and liquid, and simmor ten minutes. Then put into it throe-cpiarters of an ounce of isinglass, and when dissolved, pass the whole tlu-ough a sieve into a mould, and stand in a cold jilaco till lirmly set. Servo with a cream over it. Pro- bable cost, Is. 8d. ' Bloaters.—Open tho bloaters down tho back, and bono them. Lay the fish one on the other (insides together), and broil over a clear fire. When sent to table they are separated, laid on a hot dish, and rubbed over with a little butter; or, split up, tako out tho back bone, trim ofE the head, tail, and fins, double the fish over, and broil from five to six minutes over a clear fire. Blonde Pish Sauce.—Put three table- spoonfuls of stock into a stewpan, and stew the following ingredients for half an hour over a slow fire:—An onion cut small, two mushrooms, a sprig of parsley, a lemon very thinly sliced, and a glass of white wine. When nearly stewed, add, by degrees, a cupful of melted butter, and the yolks of three eggs well beaten; keep stiiTing the pan over the fire for four or five minutes, but do not allow the contents to bon. Strain through a sieve, and use it for any kind of fish. Probable cost, lOd. Boar's Head, Boiled. — Remove the snout, hair, and bones, from a boar's head; cleanse it thoroughly, scald and put it into a boUing pot containing ^'inegar and water; add two ounces of salt, a few peppercorns, some parsley, thyme, eschalot, and sage ; let it steep for three days, with the tongue and two pounds of the meat. When drained, fiU up the cavities made by the removal of bones, &c., with thin slices of the meat and tongue rolled to- gether ; fasten up the opening with strong thread boae'8 head. as soon as the head has been well fiUed and the form is good. Put it, tied up in a cloth, mto a stewpan with the herbs, &c., and add a pint of wine, four cloves, a carrot, and an ounce of salt, to simmer from six to seven hours, when it may be taken out and allowed to cool. When quite cold, remove the cloth, imdo the fastenings, or- nament and glaze tho head. Replace tho tusks, and insert eyes made of white of egg and beet- wot. Serve with a folded napkin under. Boar's Head Sauce.—Cut the rind from two onmgof, and sUco them. Rub two or three lumps of sugar on two more oitmges, put the sugar into a basin with six or seven table- spoonfuls of rod currant jolly, a little white pepper, one shallot, one spoonful of mixed mus- tard, and enough poit wine to make the sauws as thick as good cream; add the orange-rind slices, which should be cut very tliin, and bottle for use. This sauce is useful for nearly every kind of cold meat. I'robable cost, Is. 6d. Bohemian Ice Cream.—The smaller varieties of rijje rod fruit are used to make this cream ; they are pulped through a line sieve, and to a pint of tho juice thus procured, add an ounce and a half of the best isinglass, dis- solved in half a pint of water. Sweeten to taste, and squeeze in lemon-juice if liked. Mix to this quantity a pint of sweetened whipt cream, and mould for freezing. These creamB, where raspberries only are used, may be put into glasses, and made without isingbiss—in the proportions of a pound of fruit juice Uj a pint of whipt cream. Time to freeze, about thirty minutes. Boil, To.—Before boiling joints of meat, the cook should think for a moment, whether she desires the juices to go into the water, an. in soups and gravies, or to be retained in the meat itself. If they are to be retained, put the meat into fast-boiling water, let it boil fo. about five minutes, to make the outside hard, and thus prevent the juice escaping. Remove the scum carefully as it rises, or the appearanc of the meat will be spoilt. Draw the saucepan a little to the side of the fire, throw a littlf cold water into the liquor in order to reduce the temperature considerably, and let it simmer very gently until ready. Care must be taken to remove the scum when the water is on the point of boiling, or it will quickly sink, and cannot afterwards be removed. If it is desired- to extract the juice from the meat, cover it with cold water, and simmer slowly as before. The practice of boihng meat quickly cannot bo sufiiciently deprecated. It only renders it hard and tasteless. At the same time the simmering should be continuous. Before boiling, all joints should be delicately and neatly trimmed, and firmly skewered. It is a good plan to put a few pieces of wood under the meat to prevent it adhering to the pan. Salted meat requires longer boiling than fresh meat. Dried and smoked meat should be soaked for some hours before it is put into the water. As a very largo quantity of water takes the goodness out of the meat, it is well to use a saucepan sufficiently largo to contain the joint easily, and no more. Afterwards, if the meat is entirely cov^l with water, this is all that is required. The whiteness of meat or poultry is preserved by its being wrapped in a weU-floured cloth whilst in the pan, but great care must be taken that this is perfectly sweet and clean before using, or the flavour wiU be spoilt. - From -i quarter of an hour to twenty minutes should bo allowed for each pound, counting from th(> time the water boils. Puddings should bo plunged into plenty of boiling water, and kept boiling quickly until done.BOI (73) BOW Boiling Pot.—Large iron stewpans in which hams, joints of meat, and soups can he cooked are generally caUed hoiling pots. They BOrUNO POT. arc made of wrought-iron or cast-iron. The former are the more expensive of the two, hut are at the same time more durahle, as they are hetter ahle to withstand the heat of the fire. DEEP BOILIK0 POT. These vessels should he washed out and dried as soon as they are done with, and when not in use should he kept without cover in a dry place. Prohahle cost of a pot to hold five and a half gallons, wrought-iron, £1; cast-iron, 7s. Bologna Sausage.—Take equal quan- tities of beef and pork, pound it to a paste and season it very highly with pepper, salt, mace, cloves, and a little garlic. When this mixture is put into the skins, add a strip " two of fat hacon; it maybe boiled for one hour, or smoked for two or three months, when it will be fit for use. The Italians eat it in its uncooked state. Probable cost of meat, lOd. to Is. per pound. Bologna Sausage (another way).—Take a pound of lean beef or veal, a pound of bacon, rather fat, a pound of beef suet, and a pound of lean pork. Chop up very small all together, with a handful of sage leaves and a few sweet herbs; season to taste with salt and pepper, and press into a large, clean sausage- skin. Put the sausage into a saucepan of boil- ing water, and prick it over to prevent bursting. Boil for an hour. Probable cost, lOd. to Is. per pound. Bologna Sausage (another way).—Take two pounds of tender, streaky pork, chop it up with parsley and chives, and season with salt, pepper, and spices. Fill a large sausage-skin with the mixture, tie the ends securely, and boil it for two or three hours, pricking it fre- 'lucntly with a large needle to prevent the skin from bursting. Probable cost, lOd. to Is. per pound. Bologna Sausage with Onions.— This is prepared in the same manner as the preceding; some onions finely minced, and sim- mered in lard until three parts cooked, being added to the other materials. Bonbons, Candied (a la Gouffe).— Heat one pound of sugar until it registers forty degrees, then cool it down to thirty-eight degrees, by the addition of some essence to flavour, either aniseed cordial, cherry water, maraschino, or almond may be used. Let it cool, and beat it with a wooden spoon \intil it forms a paste, when put it in a basin until wanted. Next, get a wooden tray about one foot square, and two inches deep, fill it with dry starch finely powdered, and stamp the starch all over with an ornamental cutter, leav- ing about half an inch between each interstice. Melt part of the paste in a sugar boiler, rub the spout with whiting, and fill the patterns in the starch with the sugar; let it dry for two hours; take them out, brush them to clear away the loose starch, place them in a candy pan, cover them with some syrup at about thirty-six degrees of heat, and cover with a sheet of paper. Allow the bonbons to stay fifteen hours in a drying closet, then break the top only of the sugar, throw off the syrup, put the bonbons on a wire strainer, and give them their finishing touch by letting them again dry in the hot closet. Bonbons, Liquor.—These articles of confectionery are prepared by boiling white sugar with water into a thick syrup, and then adding a Little spirit and any flavouring and colouring ingredients that may be required. To make these, a tray is filled with finely-pow- dered starch. On the surface of this, impres- sions are made of the shape and size of the bonbons desired. These hollow spaces fire then filled with the syrup. More powdered starch is next sprinkled over the tray, so as to cover the syrup. The tray is then carefully placed in a warm place for the sugar to crystallise. The sugar in the syrup contained in the mould soon begins to form an outside crust, which gradually increases in thickness, while the weak spirit, collecting together in the interior, forms the liquid portion of the bonbon. Bone, To.—The art of boning meat or poultry, though by no means difficult for those who have been taught it, cannot be acquired by verbal instruction only. It is necessary to take lessons from some one who understands it, and practice wiU do the rest. It is exceed- ingly useful, most of all, because joints, &c., when boned, are so much more easily carved than when served in the usual way, and also on account of the economy, as the bones taken may be stewed down for gravy, for which fresh meat would otherwise be needed. The family poulterer will generally do all that is required for a moderate charge. The only rules which can be given are—to use a 'sharp-Dointed Imife, to work with this close to the bone, and to use every care to keep the outer skin as whole as possible. Bones, Devilled.—Make a mixture of mustard, salt, cayenne pepper, and a littleBEA ( 74 ) BOB nmahroom ketchup; lay a coating of butter over the bones, then the mixture, and rub it well iu nud broil rather brown over a clear fire. ' Bordelaise SaucG (a la Gouffe).—Add to half ft pint of Sautemo a table-spoonful of shallots, blanched and oliopped, and a very small <inr\ntity of mignonette pepper, lleduco it, by loihng, to a quarter of a pint, then add a pint .of Spanish sauce, and boil for five minutes, witli the addition of a table-spoonful of chopped privsloy. (See also Phin'cii'les, p. xxii.) Bottle-Jack and Screen.—The usual method employed for roasting moat is to hang the bottle-jack on tlie movable bar placed for its reception on the front of tho mantelshelf: to suspend the wheel from the jack and to hang the moat by a hook from the wheel. A screen, oitlicr entirely made of tin or lined with it, is th?n put in front of the fire to keep in the heat, and the jack is wound up two or three times wliilst a joint is being roasted. By a modern improvement the bar can be altogether dispensed with, and the jack fastened above the screen, which is so made that the heat will be con- domod as much as possible. Those who do not v/i.sli to go to the expense of a bottle-jack, but who nppreciate the difference between a roasted joint and a baked one, may find an economical sabititute for the bottle-jack in the chimney BOTTLE-JACK AKD SCREEN, screw-jack, which may be fastened uj^on any inantclshelt' when wanted, and unscrewed when done with. It requires a little more watching than tho ordinary' bottlc-jack, but if a key be hung upon the hook with six or seven thick- neases of worsted wound round it, one end of which is fastened to tho meat-hook, the twist- ing and untwisting of the worsted cord wiU cause a rotatorj' motion like that produced by the more expensive bottle-jack. Probable cost: Bottlo-jack, from 73. Gd. to 12s. 6d.; screen, from £1 IOh. to £3 lOs.; IjottTo-jack and screen m one, 12s. 6d. to 26s.; chimney screw-iack Is. Gd. to 28. J > Bouille a Baisse, or Bouillabesse. —Any kind of liwli may be used for this ditili ; gui-nard, haddock, whiting, mackerel, carp, red and grey midlet, soles, plaice, or lobsters, all do admirably for a bouillabesse. Chop two onions and put them with a piece of butter in a stewpan, and let tliem brown without burning, then arrange the fish (which lias been previously cut into small piecds) in the pan, allowing half a pound of fish for each person. Add a small quantity of the best olive-oil, a clove of garlic, two bay-leaves, a few slices of lemon, two or three tomatoes, or a little tomato sauce, as much powdered saffron as will go on tho point of a table-knife, and, lastly, a glass of white wine or Madeira. Put in sufficient stock to cover the whole, and boil from ten to fifteen minutes, skimming carefully the whole time. AVhen ready to ser^'e, throw in a handful of chopped parsley. This quantity of flavouring is intended for six pounds of fish. On the Continent it is usually sent to table in two separate dishes, that is to say, the fish in one, and the sauce in a small deep dish, but we think the whole would look better served on a large or in a deep entree dish. Brain Cakes.—Soak and pick the brains, boil for a quarter of an hour, and blanch them. Pound them to a paste with a tea-spoonful of chopped sage, a quarter of a tea-spoonful of mace and cayenne, salt, pepper, and two well-beaten eggs. Make the paste into balls about the size of a florin; when flattened, dip them into egg and fine bread-crumb, and fry brown. They are appropriate as a garnish for calf's head a la tortue. BraiSGj To.—^To braise meat is to cook it in a braisiere, or closed stewpan, so formed that live embers can be held in the cover, and the heat necessary for cooking communicated from above as well as below. As there is BBAISUrO-PAK. no evaporation the meat imbibes the flavour of the vegetablesj &c., with which it is cooked, and care should be taken that those are in accordance witli the nature of the moat and added in proper quantities. Before putting the meat into the pan, cither lard it or cover it \dth thick slices of fat bacon. ^Vhen sufficiently cooked, take it out and keep it hot, strain the gra\-y and free it entirely from fat (tliis is most effectually done by plunging the basin which containsBBA BBA it into cold water, and thus causing the fat to settle on the top). Boil it quickly until very thick, and serve it in the dish vdth. the meat, or boU it longer until it is thick enough to adhere to it. As braisieres are not very usual in ordinary kitchens, we may say that almost as good an effect is produced, if the meat is bound in slices of fat bacon, and gently stewed in rich gravy. Bran Yeast.—A good serviceable yeast can be made from a pint of bran boHed in two quarts of water for ten minutes, with a handful of good hops. Strain the liquor, and when lukewarm, add three or four table-spoonfuls of beer yeast, and two of brown sugar or treacle; put it into a jar or small wooden cask, and place it before the fire to ferment; when well worked it may be bottled, tightly corked, and kept in a cool place. Brandy. Lemon.—Take the thin or yellow rinds only oi two small lemons, and cover them with half a pint of the best French brandy; let them stand in a closed-up bottle for a fortnight, then strain off the spii-it and keep it corked closely for use. A syrup of two ounces of loaf sugar, and a quarter of a pint of water may be added if a sweet brandy lemon is desired. Probable cost, 2s. 3d. Brandy Mince for Pies.—Take one pound each of fresh beef suet, sugar, currants, and apples; wash, pick, and dry the currants, and mince the suet and apples with a quarter of a pound of citron, and the same of orange-peel, the juice of one lemon and the grated peel of two. When all these ingredients are well mixed, throw over them, by degrees, a glass of brandy. Brandy, Raspberry.—Take four pounds of raspberries and steep them in three quarts of brandy for one month; add syrup to taste, and flavour with cinnamon and clove mixture. Some persons prefer it without any flavouring ingredients, but it is always better to have a little added. Brawn.—Prepare a hog's head, by cutting off the cars, taking out the brains, and cleaning generally ; rub ia plenty of salt, and let it di-ain a whole day and night. Rub in two ounces of .saltpetre and the same quantity of salt, and let it stand for three days. Next, put the head and .salt iuto a pan and cover it with water for two days. Now, wash it well from the salt, and boil till the bones can be easily removed. Ex- ' tract these and take off the skin of the head and tongue carefully. Chop up the meat into bits, but do not mince it, and season with pepper, salt, and shallot to taste. Place the skin of one-half of the head into a pan, closely fitting it, and press into it the chopped head and tongue. When this is done, take the other skin and lay it cleverly in place, or put the other skin in the pan and proceed as. before, and turn out when cold. Should the head be too fat, add some lean pork. For a sauce, boil a pint of vinegar with a quart of the liquor in which the head was boiled, and two ounces of salt, and pour over the brawn when the liquor is cold. The hair should be carefully removed from the ears, and they must be boiled till tender. then divided into long narrow pieces and mixed with the meat. Time to boil, from two to three hours. Probable cost for a pig's head, 6d. per pound. Brawn (another way).—Take three pigsj heads, and two cheeks of salted pork, two sheeps' tongues, a piece or the whole of a bidlock's tongue. Boil all together until the meat will separate from the bones. Put the meat on a paste- board, cut it into small bits, and while cutting throw the following spices, well pounded, over it:—one ounce and a half of white pepper, three-quarters of an ounce of allspice, eight cloves, and two blades of mace. The biillock's tongue to be skinned, sliced, and distributed in thin layers between the meat in the mould. Boil a cow-heel .in one pint of water till re- duced to half, throw this over and cover, putting a heavy weight on the top. Let it stay all night, and the next morning it wiU be firm in the mould. Brawn (another way).—Take the fat, ears, and tongue, of a pig's head, and any pieces which may have been cut off in trimming, and soak in salt and water all night. Cleanse, and boU them for three hours, with only enough water to keep them from burning, and the meat from getting dry. The bones should then be taken out, the ears cut into strips, and the tongue into slices. Put the bones into the saucepan with the liquor, a large onion, two blades of mace, six allspice, twenty-five pepper- corns, two bay leaves, and a little thyme. Boil for half-an-hour, strain the liquor, put it with the meat, boil once more, and pour into a brawn mould. When required the brawn may be separated from the moulds by dipping them into hot water, or by placing a hot towel around them for a few minutes. Brawn, Mock.—Remove the bladebone from the shoulder of a large hog or boar, and boil the meat gently two hours or more, according to size. When cold rub in black pepper, salt, cayenne, allspice, shallot, and thyme to taste. Let it remain for twenty-four hours in this seasoning. Next day prepare a forcemeat of veal, ham, beef, suet, minced parsley, thjTne, onion, lemon-peel, salt, nutmeg, white pepper, and bind it with beaten egg, and press it into the space left by the bladebone. Place it in a pan, brown side downwards, taking care, how - ever, that it does not stick to the bottom, which may be prevented by placing a few twigs cross- ways in the pan. Then poiir over the shoul- der a quart of mild ale, and- bake it six or seven, hours in an oven. When nearly done, take it out and clear off the fat; add a bottle of wine and the juice of a large lemon; return it to the oven, and when it is tender enough to be easily pierced with a wooden skewer or a strong straw, it is sufiiciently done, and should be served hot. Probable cost of shoulder, 8d. or 9d. per pound. Brawn Sauce.—IMix nicely together two tea-spoonfuls of moist sugar, one of mustard, and one of the best Lucca oil. When quite smooth, add more vinegar and oU in equal proportions, though some prefer more of the one than of the other. Care must be takenBB4 ( 7fl ) BRE to make tho fwraco quite smooth, and of a nice rich golden colour. Brawn, Sussex.—Prepare a pig's hwid as directed in tho recipe for lirawu. Strew the halves Avith salt, and drain them. Cleanse the ears and feet, liub in one ounce and a half of saltpetre with six oimces of sugar, and shortly- after six ovmces of salt. Next day, pour a quarter of a pint of vinegar over all, and turn the meat in the pickle every twenty-four hours for a week; wash off the pickle and boil till all the bones may be easily removed, but tho form of tho head must be retained. Flatten the head on a board, cut some of the meat from the thickest part, and place it on tho thinnest, to give an even appearance. Season all thoroughly with nutmeg, mace, cayenne, cloves, &c. In- termix the head with pieces of the ears, feet, and tongue; roll it up tightly and bind firmly, tying a thin cloth closely round, and securely fastening at both ends. Now place the head in a braising or other suitable pan, with the bones and trimmings of the feet and ears, a large bunch of savoury herbs, two onions, a small head of celery, some carrots, a tea-spoonful of black peppercorns, and sufficient cold water to cover all well. Bon for four hours, and allow it to remain in the liquor till nearly cold. Take off the cloth and put the brawn between two dishes, and press with a heavy weight till next day. Before serving take off the bands. Average cost of pig's head, 5d. per pound. Bread {see Derbyshire Bread). Bread Brandy Cakes.—Separate the yolks from the whites of eight eggs, beat up the yolks and five whites together. Dissolve six ounces of butter in a pint of milk, and pour it, while hot, over a pound of bread-crumbs. "When cold, pour in the eggs and add equal quantities of sugar and well-washed currants, with about a quarter of an o\mce of nutmeg grated, and a glass of brandy. Line patty- pans with short paste, put in a spoonful of the preparation, and bake for twenty minutes. Bread, Broken, Pudding. — This pudding wiU use up the crusts and remnants of bread to be found in every household; all will suit, no matter how dry they are, so that they are not mouldy. Gather all into a large feowl, and throw over it as much sweetened ^k as the bread is likely to absorb, with two or three table-spoonfuls of finely-shred suet, and a little salt. Cover until well soaked, then beat the whole smooth, and add two or three well-beaten eggs, a few currants and raisins, and some grated nutmeg. The addition of a table-cpoonful of rum will be found an improve- ment. Bake in an ordinary pudding-dish for about an hour and a half. Bread, Brown, Biscuits.—Take two oimces of butter dissolved in half a pint of boiling water, and stir it into a pound of wheat meal; knead it to a fii-m dough. Mix all well, roll out to a thickness of about half an inch, and cut with a biscuit-cuttor or a sharp-edged tea- cup. Prick the bisoiits with a fork, and bake in a quick oven. Average cost, 4d. Sufficient for one pound of biscuits. Bread, Brown, Ice Cream. - Stalebr^ad must bo used for tliis cream, mixed with an equal quantity of stale sponge cake. Take two sponge cakoH and two thick slices of bread, grate thorn into a jug, and pour over half a pint of milk and a pint of cream, made sweet with half a pound of sugar. Place the jug- in a saucepan, and stir the conUmts over the fire until it gets thick. A few of the bread- crumbs sifted very finely may be added with a glass of any liquor liked to the mixture when quite cold, and just before being put to freeze. Freeze for about twenty-five minutes. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. per quart. Sufficient for eight persons. Bread, Brown, Pudding.—Take equal quantities of well-waslied currants, brown bread- crumbs, and shred suet—half a pound of each— add six ounces of sugar, half a glass of brandy, and the same quantity of cream ; mix all to- gether, with six eggs well beaten, leaving out the whites of two. Bake in a moderate oven for two hours. Servo with sweet sauce and sugar over the top. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for five or six persons. Bread Cakes, Fried, American.— To five tea-cupfuls of light dough add half a cupful of butter, three of brown sugar, a tea- spoonful of salt, four eggs, and a little grated nutmeg. Knead these well together -with flour, and let them rise before the fire imtil very light. Knead the dough again after it rises; cut it into diamond-shaped cakes ; let them rise; and fry in lard or dripping, as soon as light. These cakes must be served as soon as they are ready. Bread, Cobbett's Recipe for.—Take one pint of good sweet yeast, and the same of slightly warm water; make a hollow in the centre of a bushel of fiour and throw it in, and mix it up with the flour lying roimd it, tiU it has become a thin batter; then throw some flour over the batter, and a cloth over the pan; draw it near the fire to leaven, and when sufficiently risen, which may be known by the cracks and flowing of the yeast, mix the whole, with the addition of more warm water or milk, and a little salt strewn over, into a stiff dough. Knead it well, shape it into loaves, in tins or otherwise, place them in a warm place for twenty minutes, and then bake in a moderate oven. If the oven is too hot, the bread will not rise well. Bread Croustades.—Bread croustades are baked in a variety of shapes. The inside or crumb is scooped out, and the outer part or crust is fried, and then dried from the fat and filled with mincemeat or ragout. In Scotland croustades or moulds are made of mashed pota- toes, and lined with gratin composed of the white parts of fowl or veal seasoned with salt, pepper, and herbs. Miinster loaves may be classed under the same head as a supper-dish. They are made thus: scrape throe or four ounces of lean ham, and an ounce oi two of veal, and mix it with a pound of weU-mashed potatoes; add salt, pepper, and a couple of eggs to bind, and mould into any shapes desired. They maybe fried and served with or without gravy. Bread Crumbs, Pried.—Put some thin slices of bread into an oven when the fire haeBBE BBE ( 77 ) gone low, and let them stay all night; roU t hem next morning into crumbs. Put into a f ry- ■ng-pan some butter or lard, and when it is on t he point of boiling, add the bread-crumbs. Stu- them till they are of a clear brown colour. Take them out with a slice, and put them on blotting-paper before the lire, to draw away aU the fat; or thev may be browned in a gentle oven without butter. Bread-crumbs so prepared are useful for serving with game of any sort. Bread Crusts Toasted for Soup.— Toast bread crusts in front of a very small lire, sind on a wire toaster. When brown on both sides, cut the bread into very small dice before serving. Untoasted bread swells, and is likely 10 spoil the appearance of the soup. Crusts for toasted cheese are pulled, rough pieces, from a fresh loaf, and then browned in the oven or in front of a fire. Bread Custard Pudding.—Make a custard according- to the size of pudding re- quired. A pint of custard will fill a medium- .sized dish. Cut slices of thin bread and but- ter, to suit the dish, and over each layer throw currants, sugar, and finely-cut candied lemon, and a little nutmeg. Pour the custard over by degrees so that the bread may be well saturated, and let it stand an hour before put- ting it into the oven. Just before it is put in, throw over the last of the custard, and bake in a moderate oven for half an hour. Probable cost, about Is. Sufficient for five or six people. Bread, French.—Stir into foui- pounds of flour flavoured with three ounces of salt, half a pint of good sweet yeast, the yolks of two eggs, and the whites of three beaten sepa- rately, and a pint of warm milk. Stir all till well mixed into a thin dough, and let it rise for a few minutes. Make the dough into loaves of the size required, and bake in a brisk oven with or without tins. Time to bake, from three- quarters to one hour. Probable cost, Is. Suffi- cient for three loaves. Bread Tried for Soup.—Take one or two slices of stale bread a quarter of an inch thick. Remove the crust and cut them into email dice not more than a quarter of an inch square. Half fill an iron saucepan with frying fat and let this boil, which it will do when it is still, and a blue smoke rises from it. Put the sippets a few at a time into a frying basket, plunge them into the fat, and shake them about until they are a golden brown colour. Turn them upon kitchen paper to free them from grease, take another spoonful and proceed as before until a sufficient quantity of sippets are fried. Put the fried bread upon a dish covered with a napkin, and hand round with the soup. Sometimes the sippets are put into the soup tureen, and the soup is poured over thttn. Bread Grater.—A bread-grater is a tin cylinder perforated with holes upon each side, and as its name implies is used to crumble bread for forcemeats, &c. Although many cooks dispense with it entirely, and merely rub tho bread between the palms of the hands, the crumbs thus prepared are not nearly so smooth and even as when this little article is used. Probable cost, Is. to Is. 6d. Bread, Home-made.—Make a cavity in the middle of a quartern of flour, and stir into it a pint of warm milk or water, four table- spoonfuls of good yeast, and a little salt. Cover it up and set it before the fire to rise. If set over night make up next morning, then add half a pint more milk or water, and knead it into a dough for ten minutes. Set it by the fire for one hour and a half, then make into loaves, and bake from one hour and a half to two hours, according to size. If equal quantities of meal and flour be used, this will make an excellent brown bread. Bread, Household.—To ten pounds of flour in a kneading-trough put a small handful of salt. Stir into this about two quarts of water, more or less, as some flour absorbs more water than others. For very white bread, made with superfine flour, the dough should be softer than for seconds or bro^wn bread. In summer the water may be lukewarm; in winter, con- siderably warmer, btit never hot enough to kill the yeast. After the water is mixed with the flour, add a cupful of good yeast, then knead the bread, and leave it to rise in a warm place, covered with a cloth. If all goes well, it wiU rise sufficiently in the course of an hour or an hour and a half. Then divide it into rolls, loaves, or tin-breads, as wanted, and bake. For a three-pound loaf, take three pounds and a half of dough; for a four-pound loaf, four pounds eleven ounces; for a six-pound loaf, six pounds and three- quarters; and for an eight-pound loaf, nine pounds of dough. Bread, Household (another way).—It often happens that household bread, from a little want of care, is found bitter and unpalatable. To remedy this, the yeast or barm should be put into water over night. Next day peel and boil three pounds of potatoes, beating them to a pulp, and pass through a colander, with a pint of cold water to haK a pint of good sweet yeast. Mix the potato pulp and yeast thoroughly to- gether, and then pour it into a hollow made in the middle of one peck of flour. Stir some of the floirr into the mixture, till it is like a thick batter, then cover with a little of the dry flour, throw a cloth over the pan, and set it near the fire to rise. In about an hour mix it with five pints of lukewarm water and two ounces of salt, to a dough. Cover it up again as before, and let it stand this time about two hours, then knead it into loaves, and bake for an hour and a half in a good oven. Probable cost, about 7 ad. per four-pound loaf. Bread, Indian Corn.—Mix half a pint of white Indian meal, coarsely ground, -with one pint of fresh milk, one egg, and a pinch of salt. Get ready a tin of, say four inches dia- meter at the bottom, and three inches deep, grease it well, and pour in the batter which should only half fill the dish. Bake in a toler- ably quick oven and serve very hot, on a white d'oyley, or, if preferred, halve it and butter it. Time, thirty to forty minutes. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for three or four persons.( 78 ) BRE SBE Bread Jelly (for Invalids).—Toast thin slices of a I'rouch roll till they aro equally brown on both sides, and of a jjulo colour, then boil them in a quart of water till they become a sort of jelly. Cool a little in a spoon as a test. Strain over some juices of lemon-peel, and sweeten with sugar. A little wine may be added if preferred. Bread Omelet.—Mix equal quantities of bread-crumbs anil cream, a tea-spoonful of each, break an ounce of butter into bits, and add with it salt, pepper, and nutmeg. When the cream has been absorbed by the bread, beat it till smooth, with a fork, and mix it to three well- beaten eggs. Fry like an ordinary omelet. Time to fry, throe to four minutes. Bread Pudding.—Butter a shallow pie dish and three-parts till it with thin slices of bread and butter. Sprinkle sugar and flavour- ing over the layers. Pour on gradually a custard made with a pint of milk and two eggs. Soak awhile, and bake till set. Bread Pudding (another way).—Take fine bread-crumbs, and pour upon them as much boiling milk as they wiU absorb. Soak awhile, then for every table-spoonfid of bread allow one egg, well beaten; sweeten the mixtui-e agreeably and grate in a little nutmeg. Put it into a buttered basin, and boil from twenty to thirty minutes, according to the size of the pudding. If baked, rather less time will do; it only requires to be a light brown. Bread Pudding, Boiled.—Soak half a pint of bread-crumbs with one pint of milk thrown on them while in a boiling state, and when the milk has become cold, add three well-beaten eggs, two ounces of currants, with sugar and nutmeg to taste. Mix aU well together, butter a basin, pour in the mixture, and keep it boiling, with a cloth securely tied over the top, for rather more than one hour. Pieces of bread unfit for the table, on account of their staleness, may be used up in bread puddings, by carefully soaking them, and then pressing them dry before they are added to the rest. Probable cost, 7d. SuflHicient for four or five persons. Bread Pudding with Onions.—Mix half a pound of bread-crumbs with a tea-spoon- ful of sage, two ounces of onions, and pepper and salt, with three-quarters of a pint of milk. Add two eggs well beaten, and bake in a quick oven. Bread, Pulled.—Pull the soft portion of a new loaf into rough pieces; let them be of equal size, say about two or three inches each way. Dry the pieces in a slow oven or before the fire, tiU they become a nice light brown colour, and when they are quite crisp they wiU be ready for use. Bread, Rice.—Allow one pound of rice to four pounds of wheat flour. The rice must be first boiled in milk or water, and while warm added to the flour, but care must be taken to see that the rice is thoroughly done. Mix all into a dough with a little yeast, a quarter of an ounce of salt, and sufficient warm water for the required consistency. When it has risen before the flro a proper time, make into loaves of any sliape, and bake according to size. This bread IS very delicious niude with a mixture of milk 1 robable cost, 8d. per four-pound loaf. Bread Sauce.—Take a little stale bread, and rub it through a wire sieve, or grate it, till two ounces of fine crumbs aro obtained. Put those into a saucepan with half a pint of milk, a moderate-sized onion peeled, and six peijper- coms. Boil for ten minutes, and stir the sauco to keep it from burning. Lift it from the fire. Take out the onion and the peppercorns, stir in a small pat of butter, and two or three spoonfuls of cream, if it is to be had, and keep stirring tiU the butter is dissolved. Serve hot in a sauce tureen. Cooks often make the mistake of preparing this sauce some time before it is wanted, and this makes it pappy. If liked, a very little grated nutmeg can be added to the sauce, but most people would prefer that it should be omitted. Bread Sauce (another way).—stew the head, neck, and legs of poultrj' with an onion, a little mace, peppercorns, and salt. Take one pint of the broth when strained, pour it hot over twelve ounces of bread-crumbs, boil for ten minutes, and add three table-spoonfuls of cream. Time to make the broth, two hours. Bread Sauce (another way).—Cut a French roU, one day old, into thick sUces. Put them into a clean saucepan ; add a few pepper- corns, one whole onion, a little salt, and boiling milk enough to cover it. Let it simmer gently by the side of the fire till the bread soaks up the milk ; then add a little cream, take out the onions, and rub the whole through a sieve. Serve very hot. Bread Sauce for Partridges.—Moisten soft crumb of bread in milk, and simmer it by the side of the fire with the lid on the pan for about fifteen minutes. Then add some butter, and season with pepper and salt. Bread, Short.—To one pound and a half of flour add the following ingredients:— a quarter of a pound of candied orange and lemon- peel, cut small; the same of sweet almonds, blanched and cut; loaf sugar; and caraway comfits (some of the latter may be kept to strew over the top of the bread). Dissolve a pound of butter, and when it is getting cool pour it into the flour, and mix it quickly into a dough, with half a pound more flour. Then pour it into a large round cake of an inch in thickness ; di\ddo it into four parts, and pinch the edge of each piece neatly with the thumb and finger ; strew the caraway comfits over the top, with small devices of orange or citron- peel. Lay the cakes on floured paper, wliich is again to be placed upon tins, and bake in a moderate oven. Time to bake, twenty-.five to thirty minutes. Probable cost, 3s. 6d^ Bread, Sippets of.—Cut slices of stale bread about the third of an inch thick, and trim into any form required. Frv them in butter till some are dark, but not "burnt, and some a light browTi. "NAHion they arc crisp, lay thom on a cloth to dry. "^tMion wanted to adhere to the edge of a dish, dip the end in aBBE BBK mixture of white of egg and flour. If the dish be made very hot the sippets will not stay in theu" places. Bread, Soda.—IMix one tea-spoonful of tartaric acid with two pounds of flour, and a t.'u-spooiiful of salt. Dissolve a tea-spoonful of cai-bouate of soda in a pint of milk, and when it is free from sediment add it to the flour, and mix the whole quickly into a light dough. This quantity will make two loaves. They should be put into a brisk oven immediately, and baked for an hour. Probable cost, 6d. Bread, Stale, How to use up — When bread has become so hard that it cannot be eaten, it should be grated into coarse powder, and preserved in wide-mouthed bottles or jars.- When kept well covered up, and in a dry place, it will remain good for a considerable time. Bread thus powdered will be found very useful for the preparation of puddings, stuffings, and similar purposes. Bread, Tipsy.—Cut a French roll into t.bin slices, and j)are ofE the crusts, leaving it a nice round shape; spread raspberry, strawberry, or currant jam over each slice, and pile them one on the other in a glass dish. Pour over them as much sherry as the bread will absorb. Ornament it round with blanched almonds cut into very fine strips, and stick them also on the top; pour a custard round and serve. This is a quickly-prepared and cheap dish. Probable cost. Is. 3d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Bread, TJnfermented.—Take two ounces of carbonate of soda, one ounce and a quarter of tartaric acid, and a piece of sal- ammoniac, about the size a hazel-nut, powdered. Let these be well mixed in a perfectly dry state. Then blend them with half a peck of wheaten flour—or one-third of barley floxxr may be used—and about two ounces of salt. Make a deep hole in the middle of the flour so pre- pared, and pour in as much cold water as will make the dough somewhat less stiff than bread dough is usually made. Mix it briskly and well. Make this quantity iato thi'ee loaves. Put them immediately iato a quick oven, and let them bake for one hour and ten minutes. The exact time will depend, of course, upon the heat of the oven; but a very little practice will deter- mine this. Sweet palatable nutritious bread can bo made cheaply by carefully following this recipe. Bread without Yeast.—To every half- quartcm of flour add one tea-spoonful of car- bonate of soda and half a tea-spoonful of salt. Mix altogether; then to the water, sufficient to make a dough, add half atea-spoonfulof mui-iatic acid. Set into the oven at once. This makes deli- cious and wholesome bread. Some use tartaric acid; in which case the bread will contain tar- trate of soda, which, although not poisonous, is mcdici^l, being slightly purgative. On the other h§.nd, muriatic acid neutralises soda just as well as tartaric acid, and the resultiug com- pound is only common salt. Breadand Fruit Fritters.-Taketwelve slices of broad and butter, cut off the crust, and let them be of equal thickness; spread them over with jam—any sort that may be liked—and make a cover with another slice; press them tightly together, and cut them into any desired forms. Make a batter, as for apple fritters, dip them in and fry in boiling lard about ten minutes; diy them before the fire on a piece of blotting-paper, and serve on a napkin with sifted sugar sprinkled over. Probable cost, 1b. Sufficient for a small dish. Bread and Meat Pudding, Port- able.—Make a bread dough, roll out the paste- thick, and put any kind of fat meat, seasoned according to taste, upon it; wrap it over, and bake or boil as may be most con- venient. This mode of cooking is particularly adapted for travellers or colonial Ufe. Any- kind of game, poultry, or meat may be stuffed, and, if well skewered before the paste is put around it, will be a convenient dish of bread, meat, and sauce combined, as they may first be cooked at home, and afterwards warmed for use when required. Bread and Parsley Fritters.-^^Pour boiling water on six ounces of bread without I crust, cover it up for an hoiu-, and then beat it I up with a fork until quite smooth; add, and I mix thoroughly, an ounce of finely-chopped i parsley, pepper and salt to taste, and four eggs, well beaten. Fry, in fritters, a nice brown, and serve with brown sauce. Time to fry, five minutes. Probable cost, about 6d. Bread, Wheat and Bice.—Beat one poimd and a half of well-boiled rice to a paste, j and mix it with seven pounds of fine wheaten I floui- while still warm; take a pint and a half I of warm milk and water, four ounces of salt, i and foirr table-spoonfuls of yeast, put them into- I the centre of the flour, make a thin batter, i cover the top with flour, and leave it to rise for ! an hour and a half; then make it into a dough with more milk and water, and after kneading and forming it into loaves, set it by the fire for another hour to rise before being put into the oven. Bake from one and a half to two hours. Probable cost, Is. lOd. Sufficient for four loaves. Breakfast Biscuits.—Mix flour with cream to a proper consistency, and salt to taste. One pound of flour to a quarter of a pint oi thin cream will make a paste sufficiently stiff. Form into small biscuits, prick them, and bake in a hot oven for fifteen or twenty minutes.. Probable cost, about 6d. Or, mix flour as stated with a small bit of butter, the size of a pigeon's- egg, and moisten with a quarter of a pint of cold water; add a little salt, and bake in a hot oven for fifteen minutes. Probable cost, about 4d. Breakfast Cakes or Kolls.—Take one pound of fine flom-, and make it into a dough with an ounce of butter which has been warmed, a little salt, half a pint of milk, and half an ounce of good fresh German yeast dissolved in. warm water; cover it well up, and leave it all night by the side of the fire. In the morning make up into rolls, and if they stand for half an hour before halving they will be all tho better. Seven or eight rolls "may be made withBHE ( 80 ) BBI this quantity of dough. Time for bukiiig, from fifteen to twenty minutes. Trobablo cost, 7d. Breakfast Cakes or Rolls (another way).—Mitko a batter with two ijouud.sof liour, and as much warm milk and water, with about a quarter of a pint of fi'esh yeast, and a little salt, as will smooth it. Let it stand before tho tiro to rise for two hours. Have ready a little Hour and butter well rubbed together, and make tho batter with this, and as much more flour as may bo required, into a light dough. Make it into rolls and bake on tins; rasp, and keep them covered up warm till wanted. Time, fifteen to twenty minutes. Sufficient for twelvo ordinary- sized rolls. Probable cost, 8d. Breakfast Muffins.—Stir flour enough into a pint of hot milk, and about a quarter of a pint of yeast to make a thin battor, then put it in a warm place to rise. Rub two ounces of butter into a little flour, add salt, and with more milk and flour make the batter into a stiff dough. I'ut it aside well covered up in a warm place for half an hour, when the dough will be quite ready to shape into muffins, but they should not he baked until they have stood for another quarter of an hour. They are easily baked in a frying-pan or on a griddle. Time to bake, twenty minutes to half an hour. Bream, To Dress.—This handsome, but not very excellent fish, will eat best if broiled over a slow clear fire for half an hour. The inside must be thoroughly cleansed, but the scales should not be removed; and it should be wiped perfectly dry before it is put on the fire. Turn it so that both sides may be browned, and dredge a little flour if any cracks appear. Serve with melted butter and anchovy sauce. In carving, remove the scales and skin, and serve only what is underneath. Bream may be stuffed with a veal forcemeat, and baked—it wiU take longer than the broiling process—or wrapped in a buttered paper, and placed in a moderate oven for about half an hour. It should be well basted in its own dripping and a little butter. Bremen Cheesecakes. — Cheesecakes from this recipe are quickly prepared and at little cost. Beat well, till white, the yolks of eight eggs, and add eight ounces of finely-sifted sugar and eight ounces of sweet almonds, pow- dered. Line the pans with a thin paste, and put in the mixture with a little fresh butter on the top of each just before they are placed in tho oven. Take care that the oven is not too hot, or the cakes will fall in cooling. Bake for about a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, 2s. Brentford Rolls.—Take two pounds of flour, quarter of a pound of butter, two ounces of powdered sugar, two eggs, quarter of a pint of yeast, milk enough to form a dough, and salt according to taste. Rub tho flour, butter, and sugar together; beat the eggs, and add them to the other ingredients. When light, mould the dough out in rolls, let them rise, and bake on tins in a moderate oven. Breslau Beef {see Beef, Breslau). Bretonne Brandv Pudding.—Boil six ounces of loaf sugar in half a pint ot milk, allow it to cool for a little, and add to it six well- beaten eggs; then let it get quite cold. I'reimre a quarter of a pound of thin slices of stale broa<i and saturate the half of them with two glasses of brandy. Lay some of tho bread iu a basin previously buttered, holding a pint and a half. Strew over it some chopped caudic-d orange-peel and stoned raisins, and then some custard, till all is used up. Tie tho basin over with a buttered paper. Let it stand to soak for tjn minutes, and steam for an hour and thi-ee- quarters. Turn out, and servo with a sauce of clarified sugar which has been seasoned with vanilla and brandy. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for six or seven persons, Bretonne Sauce (for Cold or Hot Beef). —Mi.x a wine-glassful of vinegar with equal quantities of pounded sugar and mustard, a tea-spoonful of each, and about a table-spoon- ful of grated horse-radish. When pickles are preferred, this mixtirre will bo found very agreeable; it combines the flavour of a sauce and pickle. Probable cost, 4d. Bride Cake.—Commence operations by washing, picking, and putting two pounds of currants to dry before the fire, and then slicing thinly half a poimd each of candied peels, BRIDE CAKE. orange, citron, and lemon. Next, bruise one poimd of sweet almonds with a little orange- flower water, and pound quarter of an ounce each of mace, cinnamon, cloves, and nutmegs to a powder. Wash four pounds of butter, and whip it to a cream; beat up the yolks and whites, separately, of eighteen or twenty eggs— the whites should be frothed, (rot two poimds of sifted sugar, half a jiint of brandy, and the same of sherry, and four pounds of Vienna flour, well dried and sifted. Put the creamed buttci- into a large basin, and by degrees mix in thoBBI BBO sugar, stirring it constantly. Next add the frothed whites of the eggs, and beat aU together with the yolks; then the ahnonda, spices, and, very gradually, the flour, till all are thoroughly blended. Beat well, and add the currants, sprink- ling thcin in very gradually, so as to distribute them equally, and finish by making all smooth with the brandy and sherry. Keep up the beating till all is ready for the baking. A double paper well buttered, must be put as a lining to the baking-tin, and the mixture should not fill the hoop more than three parts, that it may have room to expand. Put a paper over the top, and bake the cake in a moderately heated oven. Cover it with almond icing, allow it to dry, and then add ornamented sugar-icing, three- quarters of an inch in thickness. Average cost, 15s. {See also Wedding Cake.) Bride Pie.—Parboil some veal sweet- breads and pieces of lamb in water, and cut them into slices. Mix with them some slices of blanched ox palate, streaky bacon, a pint of oysters, and some roast chestnuts, and season with salt, mace, and nutmeg. AVhen the pie-dish is full, lay slices of butter on the top of it, cover it with paste, and bake. When done, lift up the lid, and put into the pie four raw eggs beaten up with a little butter, the juice of a lemon, and a glass of sherry. Brighton Rock.—Blanch and pound to a paste three ounces of sweet and one of bitter ahnonds, using a little rose-water to moisten. Add four ounces of clean currants, and mix one pound of dry flour with half a pound of sifted loaf sugar and the almond paste. Stir into this half a pound of fresh butter beaten to a cream, and mix all well together. The cakes may be baked in small pans or dropped in lumps on floured tins, and cooked for ten or fifteen minutes. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Brill, To Boil.—This fish closely re- sembles the turbot, and is boiled in the same manner. Choose a tliick fish, and see that it is quite fresh, which may be known by the yel- lowish hue of the flesh. Clean, cut off the tins and, in order to preserve its whiteness, rub it over with the juice of a lemon and a little salt. Put it into a fish-kettle with water to cover, and salt in the proportion of three ounces to each gallon of water. Add a little vinegar, bring it to a boil, and continue to sim- mer gently until the fish is done. Lay it on a dish the white side up. Garnish in the usual way, and servo on a napkin. Time, twenty mi- nutes to boil a brill of four pounds' weight. Brill may also be fried whole or in fillets like a sole. Brioche, or Trench Paste. — To make this excellent French paste, take two pounds of fine dry flour, and separate eight ounces of it to make the leaven. Place this last into a pan, and mix it with half a pint of yeast and a little warm water. Throw a cloth over the pan, and put it near the fire for about twenty minutes to rise. ^leanwhile make a hollow space in the centre of the remaining flour, and put into it half an ounce of salt, half an ounce of finely-sifted sugar, and an eighth of a pint of cream, or some milk if there is no cream. Add a pound of good dry fresh butter cut into small pieces; put them into the flour, and pour over all six eggs well beaten. Work all this with the hand until the whole is quite smooth. If the flour will take one or two eggs more, add them; but the paste must not be so soft as to adhere to the board or roller. When the leaven is well risen, spread the paste out and the leaven over it, and knead well together. Then cut into small portions and mix again, that the leaven may be thoroughly and equally incorporated with the other ingredients. Next, dust some flour on a cloth and roll the brioche (for so it is now called) in it. Put it in a pan, and set it in a cool place in summer, and in a warm place in winter. Use it the early part of the following day; then knead it afresh, and if the French form is desired, make into balls of uniform siz HoUow them at the top by pressing the thumb into them; brush them over with eggs, and put a second much smaller ball into the hollow part of each. Glaze again with yolk of egg, and bake them for half an hour in a quick oven; or tho brioche may be formed into cakes and placed o-\ a tin, and supported with pasteboard to pre- vent the flattening of the cakes. Brioche may also be used as a paste to enclose rissoles, or to make rolls for jams or jellies, or even for vol au vent; but to many persons it is unpalatable on account of the large proportion of butter and eggs. [See also Paste Brioche.) Broad Beans {see Beans, Broad). Brocoli, Boiled.—Trim off all leaves that are not required or liked, and place the brocoli in a pan of salted water to kiU. any insects, &c., that may have taken shelter under the stalks. Wash them well, and put them into an uncovered saucepan of boiling water, with a large table-spoonful of salt to every half gallon of water. Keep them boiling tiU. done, which will be in about ten or fifteen minutes, according to size. Drain them directly they are done, or they will lose colour and become sodden. Brocoli, To Pickle.—Choose the finest, whitest, ana closest vegetables before they are quite ripe. Pare off all green leaves and the outsides of the stalks. Parboil them in well- salted water. When drained and dry, pull of the branches in convenient-sized pieces, and put them into a jar of pickle prepared as for onions. Time to parboil, four or five minutes. Probable cost, from 2d. to 6d. Broil, To.—In broiling, the first considera- tion is the gridiron. This should be kept most scrupulously bright and clean. It should never be put away dirty, but be polished and rubbed dry every time it is used, and carefully freed from grease, &c., between the bars, as well as on the top of them. It should be placed over the fire for four or five minutes to be heated through before being used, but not made so hot that it will bum the meat; and after that it should be weU rubbed with mutton suet if meat is to be cooked, and with chalk for fish; and it is im- portant that a separate gridiron should be kept for these two. The gridiron should be placed a little above the fire, and held in a slanting direction, so that the fat which flows from itBBO BUG may not drop upon the cinders, and so cause a sinoko or flaiuo. If these should arise, the gridiron may bo lifted away for a moment tiU they have suhsidod. The fire must bo clear, bright, and tolerably strong, made of cinders mixed with a little coke or charcoal. A half burnt-out lire is the best. A little suit thrown over it will help to make the fire clear. Sprinkle a little popper over the moat before it is put upon the bars, but no salt. Turn it frequently with a pair of steak tongs. If these aro not at hand, and it is necessary to use a fork, put it into the fat part of the meat, never into the lean, or the juice will escape. If, before tui-ning the meat, a little gravy has settled upon it, di-op it care- fully on the dish upon wliich the moat is to be served. Chops and steaks of beef and mutton are generally preferred rather underdone; but lamb and pork chops must be well cooked. Spriakle a little salt upon the dish before placing the meat upon it, and mix -with it, if liked, a little ketchup; but, generally speaking, the juice which runs from the meat is the only gravy required. Birds which are cut in halves before broiling should be laid with the inside first to the fire. Cutlets which have been egged and breaded should be dipped in clarified butter before being laid upon the gridiron. Fish Bhould be wrapped in well-buttered paper before being broiled, or, if this is not done, it should be washed in vinegar, well dried, and di-edged Avith fiour. Broiling is by no means difficult if care and attention be given to it. It should always be done the last thing, as the meat should be taken quickly from the fire to the table, and the dishes and plates used should be made as hot as possible. "With these—a clean gridiron, a clear fire, good material, and close watchfulness, and the exer- cise of a little judgment in taking the meat up at the right moment—small dainty pieces of meat and fish may be cooked by broiling in a manner superior to that which can be obtained by any other process of cookery. Brose Beef {see Beef, Brose). Broth, Strengthening.—Put into a vessel four pounds of the scrag end of a neck of mutton, freed entirely from fat, and chopped into small pieces, vnth. six pints of water. Boil, skim, draw the pan back, and simmer for an hour. Add three ounces of washed rice, with a turnip and some celery if liked. Simmer for two hours. Strain, free from fat, add salt, and serve. Brown Butter Sauce (for boiled skate and other fish).—Dissolve two ounces of butter I in a saucepan, and stir it till it is brown without burning. Add two table-spoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, four table-spoonfuls of good brown sauce, a table-spoonful of Harvey, a tea-spoonful of bruised capers, and half a tea-spoonful of anchovy. Stir the sauce over the fire till it boils, and serve it poured over the fish. Brown Sauce.—Melt two ounces of butter in a small saucepan, and add one ounce of flour, stirring until it is of a broAvn colour. Then add sufficient boiling stock to render it of a cream-like consistency, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Brown Soup.—Cut into small pieces the following vogctal)les :—One pound of turnips, the sanie of cun-ots, half a pound of celery, iinj six ounces of onions. Put these into a pan witc four ounces of ljuttor, and let them stew, with occasional stiiring, till brown. Boil one pint and a half of peas, in as much boiling stock oi' water as will make u]) the entire quantity to three quarts. Add liiilf a pound of toahted bread, season with bliick popperconis, Jamaica pepper, and salt. Boil gently for three or four hours, then rub the soup tlirough a coarse sieve, and return it to the pan. When it boils it is ready for the table. Brown Soup (another way).—Sb'ce and fry in butter half a dozen carrots, with the same quantity of turnips, four potatoes, four onions, and three heads of celeiy. Put them into a pan with five quarts of boiling water. Let them stew four or five hours, then rub through a sieve, season with pepper and salt, then boil and serve. Brussels Sprouts.—Pick, trim, and wash a number of sprouts. Put them into plenty of fast-boiling water. The sudden immersion of the vegetables will check the boiling for some little time, but they must be brought to a boil as quickly as possible, that they may not lose their green colour; add a table-spoon- ful of salt, keep the saucepan imcovered, and boil very fast for fifteen minutes. Lose no time in draining them when sufficiently done ; and serve plain, or with a little white sauce over the top. Cost, from '2d. to 3d. per pound, according to the season. Sufficient for a dish, one pound. Brussels Sprouts, Saute.—Wash, and drain one pound of sprouts; put them into boiling water for fifteen minutes, with half an ounce of salt to each gallon, and when done, di-y them on a clean cloth. Dissolve half an ounce of butter in a pan, and shake the sprouts in it over the fire for a minute or two; season them with pepper, salt, and a little nut- meg, and serve very hot. Sprouts about the size of a walnut have the most delicate flavour. Sufficient for two or three persons. Probable cost, 3d. to 4d. per poxmd. Bubble and Squeak.—Dissolve two or three ounces of butter or beef dripping in a frying-pan. Cut some thin slices of cold boiled or roast meat, and fry them slightly, a nice brown. Mix some cold greens of any kind with a few mashed potatoes, shred onion, if liked, salt, and pepper, and fry, stirring all the time. Serve hot, with the vegetables roimd the dish, and the moat in the middle. Frj- for about twenty minutes. Probable cost, from 4d. to 6d. without the meat. Buckwheat Cakes, American.— These cakes are seen on most American break- fast-tables. Mode of making:—To a-pmt of buckwheat-flour add a large tea-spoonful of baking-powder and a little salt. Mix to a thin batter, using lukewarm water in cold weather. The fr}'ing-pan requires to be only rubbed -with, gi-oasc, and the batter dropped in in quantities sufficient to cover an ordinary breakfast-plate at one time. When done on one side, turn, and send to table very hotBUG BUL (83) and -well buttered, or they can be eaten with treacle or syrup if preferred. Buckwheat Cakes (another way).—Put a large table-spoonful of yeast into a hollow made in the middle of one quart of buckwheat, and work it into alight dough with warm water; cover it up wai-m by the fire to rise for three houi-s. When risen enough, the top will be cracked; then get ready the griddle—it should bo hot, and well buttered or greased. The cakes may then be proceeded with. Convey with a ladle as much batter as may be wanted, that is, according to the size of the cakes; when done on one side turn, and, when quite baked, butter them as they are removed from the griddle. A fresh supply of butter is required for every cake, but it is sufficient if the griddle be well rubbed with it. Lay them one on the other and divide into quarters. Buckwheat Cakes, Raised.—"Warm a quart of water. Stir into it a good table- spoonful of treacle and a tea-spoonful of salt. Mix in enough buckwheat-flour (or oatmeal or Indian corn-flour) to make a stiff batter, together with a table-spoonful of good yeast. Let it stand to rise before the fire. Then bake on a hot plate, in iron rings, like muffins, or in a slack oven. Toast and serve the cakes hot with butter. Bullaces {see Damsons). Bullock's Brains,—Lay some slices of bacon into a stewpan, with onions, carrots, chives, and parsley; blanch the brains in luke-warm water, and put them in with equal quantities of white wine and stock broth, seasoned with pepper and salt. Stew gently for half an hour, and send to table with fried parsley. Bullock's Brains with Tomato Sauce.—Stew the brains as directed in the preceding recipe, and when quite ready to serve, cover with tomato sauce. Bullock's Heart (a la Mode).—Soak the heart for two hours in cold water mixed with a little vinegar; take out the arterial carti- lage and the coagulated blood left in it; fill the inside with bacon cut iato dice, seasoned with pepper, salt, and chopped parsley. Tie it round with tape into its original shape. Stew it in a saucepan, covered with broth, and haK as much cider, if to be had; add a bunch of sweet herbs, and as many onions and carrots as there is space for. Whenit has simmered gently for four hours, lay it on a dish, put the carrots and onions round it; let the liquor boil a few minutes longer to thicken, then pour some of it over the heart, and servo the rest in a sauce- boat. If preferred, flavour the latter with mushroom ketchup and a little red wine, which will give to the heart the flavour of hare. Probable cost, Is. 9d. to 3s. Sufficient for five or six persons. Bullock's Heart, To Roast. —Soak the heart as before, fill all the openings at the top, or broad end, with a stuffing composed of crumb of bread, chopped suet, parsley, pepper, and salt, moistened with an egg and a little milk; suspend with the pointed end down- wards. Baste liberally. The heart will have to be roasted from three to four hours, accord- ing to the size ; it should be well done. Send to table with beef gravy. Probable cost. Is. 9d. to 3s. Sufficient for five or six persons. Bullock's Heart, To Roast (another -way).—Soak the heart as before, and boil it for a while before roasting; it will be less indi- gestible, and will take away, to some extent, the grease so gei_erally complained, of. Before boil- ing see that it is perfectly clean, and all the un» necessary parts cut off. Put it into hot water, bring it quickly to the boil, and then simmer one hour and a half. Prepare a veal stuffiaig; fin up the cavities, fastening them with coarse strong thread. Baste imsparingly with butter, and roast before a moderate fire from one to two hours, according to size. Serve with brown gravy and red-currant jeUy. Probable cost. Is. 9d, to 3s. Sufficient for five or six persons. Bullock's Heart, with Onions—Pre- pare a stuffiing of three ounces of bread-crumb, two ounces of onion, parboiled and finely cut, half an ounce of powdered sage, salt and pepper to taste. Fill the heart as directed in preceding recipe. It should be served with good brown gravy and apple sauce. Time to simmer, one hour and a half; to roast, from one to two hours. Probable cost, Is. 9d. to 3s. Sufficient for five or six persons. Bullock's Kidney, Pried.—Cut up a bullock's kidney into very thin slices, dust plen- tifully with flour, and season with pepper and salt. Place an ounce of butter into a saucepan ; as soon as it begins to melt, put the sliced and seasoned kidney to it; add a little cold water, just enough to prevent burning, or, if to be had, use cider instead. Add a table-spoonful of ketchup. Keep shaking and stirring over a gentle fire, but do not let it come to a boil; if it does, the kidney will be hard and tasteless. The secret of success consists in not letting it cook too much, too fast, or too long. Lay bits of toasted bread round the edge of a dish; with a spoon put the kidney in the middle, give the gravy a boil up, and pour over it. Some cooks garnish with sliced lemon, and stew in port or champagne; for the latter, the cider is not a bad substitute, and is more easily obtained. Bullock's Kidney, Fried (anotherway). —Soak a bullock's kidney for an hour or more in warm water. Cut it into thin slices, drain, dry, and season with pepper and salt, and dredge them lightly with flour. Fry gently till they become a light-brown colour; put the sKces into a saucepan, doubling them a little one over the other. Make a gravy with the butter in the pan, and a small quantity of flour to thicken. Add a table-spoonful of vinegar if liked, with a tea-spoonful of sugar, stew the kidney in this till quite tender. Time to fry, from eight to ten minutes. Probable cost, Is. 5d. Sufficient for three persons. Bullock's Kidney, Stewed (an econo- mical dish.—Take a bullock's kidney, remove the hard core, cutting the kidney itself as littleBUL BUL ( 84 ) as possible in doing so, and put in its place an onion and two cloves. Sktiwer the kidney securely, put il into a saucepan over the fire with a Little dissolved dripping, and turn it about till it is brown all over. Pour upon it, to cover it, water that has boon thickened with tlour to the consistency of molted butter. Let the liquor boil, draw it back, and simmer very gently for four hours. Add pepper and salt to taste. Probable cost, Is. Bullock's Kidney, Stewed.—Fry the slices of a kidney in butter until they become u light brown. Sprinkle them with pepper and salt. !Muko a gravy with the butter, a little llour, and warm water; then put the slices into tho stewpan with the gravy, and stew over a slow fire until quite tender. A little mushroom ketchup may be added. Time, a little more than an hour. Cost of kidney, lOd. per pound. Sufficient for two or three persons. Bullock's Liver for Gravy. —This liver may be and is used by many tried with bacon, but it is more generally used for gravy in made dishes. It is excellent for this purpose prepared in the follow^g manner: — After being well drained, lay it in a dish with salt well spread over every side ; let it stay twenty- four hours, then drain, and hang it in a dry place, to use when required. Bullock's Tongue (a la Fran9aise).— This is a very superior mode of cooking a tongue. Get together all the trimmings from poultry-heads, necks, &c., some ham, bacon bones, or veal pairings. Put the tongue into a large stewpan with these remnants, add a small quantity of water, some pepper and salt, a few cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a good-sized onion. When it has been simmering one hoiir, throw in a little more water, enough to just cover the tongue; simmer till done, then strain, and make a glaze of part of the gravy; lay it over the tongue, and send to table ornamented with fancUy-made cuttings from boiled carrots and turnips. The remainder of the gravy will be of great use to the cook for sauces. Probable cost, 5s. to 6s. Bullock's Tongue, Boiled.—A tongue for boiling is best fresh from the pickle; but a dry one should be soaked twelve hours. Wash bullock's TOKaUB FOB TABLlt. it well from the salt, and trim off any objec- tionable part. Put it into a stewpan with plenty of water, and when it has once boiled, simmer very gently till done. It is excellent, though the plan is not economical, if boiled, or rather simmered, from six to seven hours, and allowed to coul in the liquor; but, in the ordi- nary way, a large tongue takes from four to foui- and a lialf liours, and a small one from tlu-ee to three and a lialf. Take off the skin and in-cas tho tongue into a round slmpe with a weight on the top, or fasten at each end to a board to keep it straight, if preferred. When cold, put some glaze over it, and garnish with parsley. I'robablo cost, 6b. to 6s. Bullock's Tongue, Cured.—Mix well together equal quantities of salt and sugar—a large table-spoonful of each—and half a table- spoonful of saltpetre. liub the tongue with a , good handful of common salt, and let it lie all night, then di-ain, and wipe before adding the above mixture. Lay it out on a board, and rub the mixture all over, not omitting to put some into the hole under the tongue. It must be turned and rubbed with a little extra salt for the first two or three days; then, with a large spoon, moisten the tongue well every morning for a fortnight. A tongue thus pickled will not require any soaking. Probable cost, 6s. to 6s. Bullock's Tongue, Cured (another way).—Procure a tongue, with as little root as possible, from the butcher; but if sent with much on, cut off before salting all that is not required to cook >vith the tongue, and put it into a slight pickle of salt and water to cleanse it from the slime. Next day drain and salt for a couple of days, when it will be fit for pea-soup. Prepare the tongue by sprinkling it well with salt, and letting it drain; then rub in the following mixture :—A large spoonful of com- mon salt, the same quantity of coarse sugar, half as much saltpetre, two cloves of garlic chopped very fine, and a tea-spoonful of ground pepper. The tongue should be rubbed every day for ten days, and turned as often. It may be dried or smoked. Probable cost, 6s. to 6s. Bullock's Tongue, Cured (another way).—To half an ounce of saltpetre, pounded, two ounces of common salt, and an ounce and a half of coarse sugar, add a little bay salt, and rub it into a tongue for eight or nine da3's, turning it every day. Remove it from the pickle, drain, and hang it in a warm but not hot place, to dry and harden. It may be cooked whole, or a small piece may be cut off as required, and when boiled, grated for gravy. Probable cost, 5s. to 6s. Bullock's Tongue, Fricasseed (Ger- man).—Boil a tongue as directed, put some butter into a stewpan, and when it is of a rich golden colour, add some finely-cut onion, cloves, a slice or two of lemon, a cupful of stock, in which a small spoonful of flour has been mixed, and a glass of sherry or Madeira. Place slices of tongue in tho pan with this sauce, to which may be added sardines or mushrooms (tho Germans like a mixture of tastes), and simmer in the usual way for ten minutes. Serve up the slices of tongue with the sauce poured over. Time, twenty minutes to stew. Probable cost, from 6s. to Gs.BUL ( 86 ) BUB, Bidlock's Tongue, Larded la Ber- lin).—When the tongue has boiled for three hours, remove it, but do not throw away the liquor. Peel off the skin, lard the tongue with bacon, and put it into a stcwpan with a little of the liquor, a few silver button onions, which have been first fried, a glass of wme, a little sugar, and flour to thicken; stew the tongue in this for an hour, then add the juice of half a lemon, and serve. Probable cost, Ss. to 6s. Bullock's Tongue, Miroton of.—Fry some slices of onion, shallot, chives, and parsley, in butter; they should be cut small, and fried a pale brown. Add a httle flour, mixed with a Uttle good gravy, or jelly, and stir till thickish; then lay in slices of ox tongue, seasoned with spice and salt, and simmer for fifteen minutes. Pound some capers and an anchovy, with a httle vinegar; make all hot, and pour over the tongue. Probable cost. Is. 2d. per pound. One pound sufficient for a dish. Bullocks' Tongues, Pickled and Baked. — Prepare the following ingre- dients:—Two ounces of bay salt, one ounce of saltpetre, a few cloves, a blade of mace, and some allspice, all pounded together ; add them to six ounces of salt, and three ounces of course brown sugar; mix well, and rub it into the tongue, and turn it every day for fifteen days, then put it into the oven with some butter over it, in pieces, and a common crust over all. Bake until very tender ; try it with a wooden skewer—if it offers no resistance it is ready. Peel, and straighten it out on a board, and when cold, glaze and send to table with a ruffle round the root. Probable cost, 5s. to 6s. Bullock's Tongue, with Piquante Sauce.—Many people forget, or ao not, perhaps, know, that an ox tongue may be served in many diflterent ways besides cold boiled. The following makes a handsome dish, and where people are accustomed to continental cookery will be sure to be ap- preciated :—Wash a fine tongue in cold and then throw it into boiling water. Let it boil for half an hour; take it out, drain, and put it into a clean pan covered with cold water. Simmer it for two hours, then add two or three carrots, turnips, a bunch of celery, and sweet herbs; simmer another hour, remove the tongue and skin it. Next, get a stewpan, and put into it some small onions, two bay-leaves, a few cloves, pepper- corns, a sprig of thyme, a slice of ham, and a scraped carrot, with about a quart of the liquor the tongue was boiled in. Place the tongue in last of all, cover down tightly, and stew two hours. "When done, pat the tongue on a hot dish. Thicken the sauce with flour, mustard, and scraped horse-radish (a very small quantity); give it one boil, pour over the tongue, and serve. When too large for a small party, cut the tongue in half before stewing it. The one half may be served as directed, and the other half may be pressed into a mould, covered with a glaze, and served cold for breakfast, lunch, &c. Probable cost of a tongue, 6h. to 6s. One-half sufficient for five or six persons. Buns.—Directions for compounding the following buns will bo found under their re- spective headings:— American Breakfast Bath Chester Christmas (Scotch) Devonshire Endcliffb Geneva Good Friday Guernsey Hanover Hot Cross Madeira Plain Plum Scotch Spanish Windsor. Buns, Light Tea.—Take one pound oi flour, half a tea-spoonful of tartaric acid, and the same quantity of carbonate of soda, and work all well together through a sieve; then rub two ounces of butter into the flour, being verj' careful to leave no lumps. When this ia thoroughly mixed, add a quarter of a pound of well-dried currants, two outices of sifted sugar, and a very few caraway-seeds. Next, mix half a pint of milk with one egg, make a hole in. the middle of the flour, and pour in the milk, working it all lightly together. Do not touch the dough with the hand, or the buns will be heavy, but place it in lumps on the baking-tin with a fork. Probable cost for a dozen cakes. Is. Bun Pudding.—Take as many stale buns as a dish wiU contain without crowding; mix a custard, allowing five eggs to a quart of milk ; season it with sugar and any kind of spices. Pour the custard over the buns, and let it stand and soak one or two hours. When it is all absorbed, bake it an hour and a half. This makes a very economical and pleasant pudding for a fanuly where there are many children. Burdwan, Indian.—This dish is much appreciated in India, and almost any kind of cold meat may be used for it. Venison, however, has the preference, but poultry may be so cooked as to ensure success. Take a table- spoonful of minced Spanish onion and half the quantity of shallot. To this put a pint of cold water, a mild seasoning of cayenne pepper, a table-spoonful of essence of anchovies, and an ounce of butter, mixed with a tea-spoonful of flour. Let this sauce simmer, after it has come to a boil, about a quarter of an hour, or until the onion is tender; then add to it a table- spoonful of Chili vinegar and a glass or two of Madeira. Draw the stewpan near the fire, and place the meat into it—if a fowl, divide it into joints and strip off the skin—when hot through, draw still nearer to the fire, but it should not be allowed to boil. If the fowl has been roasted, it may be sent to table when just on the point of boiling; but if only partly cooked before, allow it to simmer from twenty to twenty-five minutes. Many additional sauces may be used, and the juice of a lime or Seville orange pressed into it before serving; but care should be taken that no strong flavour of any particular sauce predominates. Sufficient for three or four persons. Burdwan Stew.—Any cold roast or boiled lamb, poultry, or game will do well for this. Make a sauce as follows:—To half a pint o5( 86 ) BUR BUT good gravy in a stewpan add a tea-spoonful of soy and cayonno, and tho same of lemon picklo, mushroom kotchup, and cucumber vinegar. A fowl previously cooked should bo jointed, and it will only require to bo heated through in tho aauco. Put it on tho lire until it comes to a boil, when it will bo ready to servo. It must bo served hot. Suitable for an entree. Burnt Almonds {ice Almonds, Burnt). Butter (ii I'Espagnol).—Put hrdf an oimce of isinglass, one glassful of rose-water, and six bitter almonds, blanched and sliced, into an Bnamellod saucepan, and let it stand near the fire for an hour, or until tho isinglass is dissolved and the flavour extracted from the almonds. Add, by degrees and very carefully, half a pint of cream mixed with tho yolks of throe well-beaten eggs. Sweeten to taste, and stir it well over a slow fire until it thickens. Remove it from tho fire, and continue to stir until nearly cold, and put it into a mould weU wetted with rose-water. Time to thicken, about ton minutes. Probable cost for one pint mould, 2s. Butter (a la Maitre d'Hotel).—Wash some parsley, pick it from the stems, and chop it ismall. After chopping, wash it again, by put- ting it in the corner of a cloth, dipping this in cold water, and wringing it dry. This second washing is intended to remove the acrid taste which is so often objectionable in raw parsley. Put the parsley on a plate with its bulk in fresh butter, a little pepper and salt, and two or three drops of lemon-juice. Work all together with the point of a knife, and be careful to mix it in a cool place, and also not to work it too much, or it will oil. It should be made for immediate use. Sometimes a green onion chopped small is added. Any dish with which this butter is served is named " a la Maitre d'Hotel." Butter, Black.—Take raspberries, straw- berries, gooseberries, currants, or any other fruit, and boil them with one pound of sugar to every two pounds of fruit. Boil well, and unto, the quantity is reduced to two-thirds, then put into pots. This forms a useful and agreeable preserve for children. Butter, Brown. — Melt she ounces of butter in a stewpan over the fire until it becomes of a brown colour, and then allow it to become cold. Take another stewjian, and put into it a cupful of vinegar with pepper, which reduce one-third by boiling. Wlien tho butter is cold, add it to the vinegar and pepper, stir all up well, and warm it over the fire, care being taken that it is not allowed to boH. If the butter is not cool before adding it to tho vinegar it will spurt over the sides of tho vessel. As the usual taste of the butter is entirely destroyed by the heat to which it is subjected, it will be found that an article of the cheapest kind will answer for this purpose as well as the best. Butter, Brown (German method).—Take any quantity of butter required to be browned, and put it into an iron saucepan over a slow fire. Stir until it assumes the colour wanted, taking caro that it does not bum. What is required to be dipped in this brown butter should be prepared beforehand, and dippr^ just before serving. Time, about t(;n ininutoH. Butter. Burnt Sauce. — Brown two ounces of butter in a frying-pan; stir until it is of a good colour, then add a tea-spoonful of salt, a very little cayenne pepper, and two table- spoonfuls of hot vinegar. Tliis sauce is recom- mended by Dr. Kitchener as excellent to servo over poached eggs or for broiled fish. Probable cost, 4d. Butter, Clarified.—Melt some butter in a perfectly clean saucepan; remove tlu; scum, &c., which will rise to the top, and let it stand by tho side of tho fire for all impurities to sink to tho bottom. Strain it carefully through a sieve, leaving the sediment at the bottom of the saucepan. Butter should be clarified before it is used to cover potted meats, &c. When it is hot it may be used instead of olive-oil, and is liked better than oil by many cooks, both for salads and for other purposes. Time to molt, about three minutes. Butter, Clarified (another way).—Dis- solve the butter before the fire, and have ready a clean jar in which to pour it. There is much waste in straining clarified butter, and this is not necessary if it be stirred once or twice whilst melting, then allowed to stand and care- fully thrown into the jar, so as to leave tho sediment behind. Tie it down securely to keep it from the air. Butter, Creamed. —To reduce butter to cream beat it in a bowl with the hand in a con- trary direction to that observed in making cream into butter. Any water or milk must be thrown off. Time, from fifteen to twenty minutes. Butter, Fairy.—Blanch and pound two ounces of sweet almonds, adding a little orange- flower water. Wash a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, and beat it to a paste with six yolks of hard boiled eggs, a little grated lemon- peel, and sifted loaf sugar. Mix all together with a wooden spoon, and work it through a colander. Serve it, on biscuit soaked in wine, piled up very high. Probable cost, without wine, Is. 6d. Butter for Cold Dishes.—Pound the following ingredients in a mortar, and reduce them to a smooth paste :—One clove of garlic, six hard boiled yolks of eggs, a spoonful of capers, and a seasoning of mace and allsi^ice; moisten with a little tan-agon vinegar and a glassful of salad-oil, and then add eight ounces of butter, with spinach-juice enough to make the butter green. Pound all tiU very smooth, and set it on ico to get firm, when it may be used for the decoration of cold meats, fish, salads, &c. Probable cost, Is. 8d. to 2s., ac- cording to the price of butter. Butter, Melted.—Mix half an ounca of flour smoothly with an ounce of butter melted in a saucepan. Add a little salt and half a pint of cold water. Stir the sauce, let it boil for three minutes, and it is ready. For a detailed description of the best way of making good melted butter, see Puinciples of Cookeky, p. xliii.BUT (87) BUT Butter, Melted (another way).—Take a piece of butter the size of a hen'a egg, cut it into three or four slices, and work in as much of a dessert-spoonful of flour as the butter will take up. Put this into a saucepan with three- quarters of a pint of cold water, keep stirring in one dii-ection as the butter melts, and dust in what remains of the flour. When they are well mixed, smooth, and the sauce boils up, it is ready for serving. Or the lump of butter may be simply put in the saucepan, then mixed with flour to form a paste, and have cold water added to make it of the right consistency. "When this method is adopted the sauce must be stirred till it boils. Good melted butter, even if smooth, should not be too thick or pasty. It wiU acquire that condition by being kept waiting too long at the side of the stove. In that case it can easily be thinned by the addition of more butter and a little warm water. Butter, Melted (simple and economical). —Mix two large tea-spoonfuls of flour to a smooth paste with a little cold water, and stir into it half a pint of boiling water. Add a pinch of salt, and stir the sauce over the fire till it boils. Take it ofE the fire, mix with it a piece of butter the size of an egg, and when this is entirely dissolved send to table. A small quantitj' of lemon-juice can be added if for fish. Butter, Melted, French.—Hub a table- spoonful of flour into a quarter of a pound of good fresh butter, put it into a clean stew- pan, with a little salt, half a spoonful of white vinegar, a wine-glassful of water, and a little nutmeg. Stir it over the fire till it thickens; but the flavour will not be -so good if it boils. Or, melt a quarter of a pound of butter with- out flour; keep the pan in motion till qmte hot. The best butter should always be used for melting purposes. Probable cost. Is. 6d. to Is. lOd. per poimd. Buttered Mushrooms.—Remove the stems from yoimg mushrooms, and rub them with salt, then i-inse in salted water, and drj^ in a cloth. Put two ounces of fi'esh butter into a stewpan, over a very slow fire, and when the butter is of a beautiful pale brown, put in the mushrooms, and shake the pan to keep them from burning and the butter from oiling. When tender, serve them with their own gravy, arranged high on the dish. It is an excellent relish, and requires no sauce. Buttered Toast.—Cut slices rather more than a quarter of an inch thick, from a stale loaf, and toast them on both sides before a clear, bright fire; have a hot plate ready to put them on, and butter according to taste. Some like it buttered on both sides. Pare off the crusts and serve, covered up hot. For dry toast the slices should be cut thin, and held at a distance from the fire to make it crisp. A little move- ment of the hand will help this. Butter Preserved with Honey.— ■"•Vush and press the butter until it is quite free from milk. Put it in a jar, and place it in a pan of boiling water. When clarified, and just before boiling, remove it from the water to a cool place ; take off the scum, and work it up in the propoi-tion of two ounces of honey to every two pounds of butter. This mode of preparation will be found very convenient where butter is eaten with sweet dishes. It will keep as long as salted butter if the air be properly excluded from it. Butter, Ravigote (a la Gouffe).—This butter is composed of the following ingredients, pounded together in a mortar:—First, blanch in boiling water for two minutes, one pound of herbs—tarragon, mixed chervil, bumet, chives, and cress—then press out the water by squeezing them in a cloth. Put them, with half a dozen well-washed anchovies, and the same of hard boiled eggs, into a mortar, add a piece of garlic (about the size of a pea), a seasoning of salt and pepper, two ounces of gherkins, and two ounces of capers; these last should be well squeezed from the vinegar. When well pounded and smoothed through a sieve they are to be mixed with two pounds of butter, two table-spoonfuls of oil, and one of tarragon vinegar, and again pounded and mixed for use. Butter, Salt (Scottish method).—Put the butter into a tub of clean water, press it thoroughly with the hand or a broad butter- boater until the water is entirely removed. Lay it out on a board and sprinkle it with salt, an ounce to everj'^ three pounds of butter. Work and beat it well. Then make a brine strong enough to float an egg; add two ounces of loaf sugar, and boil it; when quite cold, put some of this prepared pickle to the butter, and press and squeeze off the water. If it does not come off clear, repeat the washing in fresh pickle. The kit or tub for storing is filled up within two inches of the top with butter, the pickle thro"wn on it, and a clean linen cloth over all. The lid of the kit must then be well secured. Butter Sauce.—Season a cupful of flour with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and cloves. Mix it with some water into a paste, and work in a piece of butter about the size of an egg. Put the thin paste into a pan over the fire, and boil it for a quarter of an hour, then take it off, and add some fresh butter in smaU portions at a time, continually stirring the contents to pre- vent the butter from rising to the surface. After- wards add some vinegar and mix thoroughlj-. This sauce is used with fish and boiled vegetableis. {See also Melted Butter.) Batter Sauce, or Oiled Butter.— Take as much fresh butter as will be wanted, and melt it, but do not let it brown. Skim it, pour it out, let it rest a minute, then drain it from the curd at the bottom, add salt, and serve. This simple sauce is quickly made, and is gener^illy much liked. Butter Sc ones.—Take a pint of thin cream, salt it to taste, and stir it into flour enough to make a dough of the proper consistency. Knead well, roll out thin, and form into scones ; prick them with a fork, and bake over a clear fire on a griddle. Butter shovdd be served with them: they are excellent for breakfast or tea.CAB BUT Butter Seasoned with Pepper.— Work up soino buttiT with puwilerod popper, Rnd sorvo us soon as pre^mrod. Butter and other spices may ho prepai'ed in a similar manner. Butter, To Keep, in Summer—Place the butter-dish into a basin containing water, within two inches of the top. Tlu'ow a piece of muslin, which has boon well wetted, hut wrung to prevent any moisture dripping into the butter, over it, and allow the ends to fall into the water. Or, turn a large llower-pot, around which a woollen cloth has been tied, pre- viously well soaked in water, over the butter- dish, and stand it on a stone floor. In this latter plan all that is needed is to keep the woollen cloth moist; in the former, to change the water every day, and rinse the muslin. Butter, To Preserve without Salt- Dissolve the butter very gently in a clean pan over the fire. All the watery particles will evaporate, and the curd—which is the cause of the butter becoming rancid—will fall to the bottom. It should not boil. Throw the butter into a clean vessel, keeping out the sediment and excluding the air by means of a bladder tied over the top. When cool it resembles lard. It will also lose some of its flavour, but it is superior to salt butter for culinary uses, and especially for pastry. Butter, Truffled.—To those who like the flavour of truffles, an economical method of procitring it is to dissolve a pound of butter, skim and simmer for four or live minutes, and when the sediment settles, pour the top into an enamelled saucepan over some small thick slices of French trufiles. Add a seasoning of salt, pounded mace, cayenne, and nutmeg. Heat the truffles slowly and shake the pan well round; draw it aside, and stew twenty minutes, or until the truffles are tender; then remove them and i pour the butter into pots for use. This butter will be an excellent addition to any mode of cooking a fowl or turkey, or for frying any lignt dish oi veal, hara eggs, or similar pre- parations. The truffles thus prepared may be used for any sauce required for poultry, veal, tongue, sweet-breads, or other light dish; or, warmed again, they wiU serve as a garnish. Buttermilk Cakes. Take one pint of buttermilk, and stir into it as much flour as will form a dough, with one table-spoonful of dissolved carbonate of ammonia. Roll the dough out in sheets, cut the cakes, and bake them in a moderate oven. The carbonate of ammonia may be obtained at any of the drug- gists ; it is the common smelling-salts, without any of the aromatic drugs. It never imparts any taste to the food, as the heat disengages the carbonic acid gas and the ammonia. Buttermilk Scones or Bread.—To one pound of flour add one tea-spoonful of salt; mix fifty grains of carbonate of soda with a tea- spoonful of powdered sugar, and rub them into the flour. AVhcn they are well blended toge- ther, mix the flour into a stiff dough with some buttermilk—or milk will do —but no time should be lost in putting it into the ovr-n, or the bread will be hcav)-. It requires a well-heated oven. but not a strong one. Time to bake, about three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, from 3d. to 4d. Suflicient for a smull loaf. c Cabbage (a la LiUoiso).—Wash and drain a large cabljagc, and, after removing the stalk, cut it into piecoH about the size of a walnut. Melt two ounces of butter in a saucepan, and fry in it for a minute or two a small tea-spoonful of finely-chopped onion. Add the cabbage, with pepi)er, salt, and a Uttle grated nutmeg. Cook it over a slow fire, and turn it frequently to prevent burning. Place on a hot dish and serve. Time to prepare, fifteen minutes. Pro- bable cost, 4d. or 5d. Sufficient for four per- sons. Cabbage, Boiled.—Cut off the stalk, re- move the faded and outer leaves, and halve, or, if large, quarter the cabbages. Wash them the- re ughly,and lay them for a few minutes in water, to which a table-spoonful of vinegar has been added, to draw out any insects that may be lodging under the leaves. Drain them in a colander. Have ready a large pan of boiling water, with a table-spoonful of salt and a small piece of soda in it, and let the cabbages boil quickly till tender, leaving the saucepan un- covered. Take them up as soon as they are done, drain them thoroughly, and serve. Time to boil: young summer cabbages, from ten to fifteen minutes; large cabbages or savoys, half an hour or more. Probable cost, 2d. each. Sufficient, one moderate-sized cabbage for two persons. Cabbages, Boiled (another way). — Cut off the stalk, remove the faded outer leaves, and halve, or, if large, quarter the cabbages. Wash i them thoroughly, and lay them for a few mi- nutes in water to which a table-spoonful of vinegar has been added for the purpose of de- stroying any insects that may be present. Drain them in a colander. Put them in a large saucepan of boUing water, to which a table- spoonful of salt and a very small piece of soda have been added, and let them boU quickly for six minutes, pressing them dowTi two or three times to keep them well under the water. Then take them out and throw them into another saucepan prepared just like the first. Let them boil ten minutes, and repeat the process, letting them boil the third time until tender. Serve as hot as possible, with melted butter or white sauce poured over them. Time: small summer cabbage, twenty minutes or more; large cabbage, from half to three- quarters of an hour. Sufficient, one small cab- bage for two persons. Cabbage Cake. —Boil a largo cabbage till it is quite tender. Drain the water from it, and chop it small. Butter the inside of a pie- dish, and dust it with finely-grated broad- crumbs. Place on these a layer of chopped cabbage about an inch thick, thf^n a layer of cold beef or mutton finely minced and flavoured ; repeat until the pie-dish is nearly full, making the top layer of the cabbage. Lay tliree or fourCAB ( 89 ) CAB rashers of bacon over it, and put the dish in a moderuto oven. When it is heated thoroughly, and the bacon cooked, turn it out as from a mould, and pour good bro^vn gravy round it. Time to cook, half an hour. Probablo cost, witliout the cold meat, 2d. or 3d. Suihcient, a small pic-dish full for three or four persons. Cabbage and Bacon.—Boil a piece of pickled pork imtil it is about thi-ee-quarters cooked. Then tjike it out of the water, di-ain it, and place two or three rashers of bacon in the saucepan. Lay on these a cabbage which has been thoroughly washed and cut into quai-ters, and put the pork over the cabbage. Cover the whole with nicely-flavoured stock; add pepper, nutmeg, and pai-sley, but no salt, as it will most Ukely be found there is sufficient in the bacon and stock. Simmer gently until the cabbage is cooked. Place the vegetables on a hot dish with the pork in the midst of them; thicken the gravy, and pom- it over the whole. Time to boil the cabbage, twenty minutes. Sufficient for four or five persons. Cabbage, Creamed.— Thoroughly cleanse two young cabbages, and boil them until quite soft. Take them out, drain, and press them between two hot plates until they are di-y, when they may be slightly chopped. Melt a piece of butter the size of an egg in a stewpan, add pepper and salt, then put in the cabbage, and turn it about for two or three minutes. When it is thoroughly heated, dredge a table- spoonful of flour over it, and mix with it very gradually a cupful of milk or cream. Serve on a hot dish. Time, half an hour. Probable cost. Id. or 2d. each. Sufficient for three or four persons. Cabbage Jelly.—Boil a cabbage irntil it is tender, place it in a colander, and drain the water thoroughly from it. Then chop it small, and mix with it a little pepper, salt, and butter. Press it into a well-oiled mould, and bake in a moderate oven. Time to bake, half an hour. Probable cost, 2d. or 3d. Sufficient for four persons. Cabbage, Red, Pickled.—The cabbage should not be cut imtil it has been slightly frost-bitten. Choose a firm, hard cabbage. Re- move the outer leaves and cut it as finely as possible in cross slices. The finer it is cut the nicer will be the pickle. Put it in a large shallow dish with a layer of salt spread over it, and let it remain for twenty-four hours; then squeeze the purple juice thoroughly from it, and place it in pickle-jars, strewing between every handful a little black pepper and bruised ginger. FiU the jars with cold vinegar, or better still, vinegar which has been boiled and allowed to become cold, and cork securely. It is ready for use at once. The French vinegar is the best for pickling. Probable cost of a good-sized red cabbage, 4d. to 6d. Cabbage, Red, Stewed. — Prepare a large cabbage as if it were going to be pickled. Melt two ounces of butter, or of good beef drii)ping, in a saucepan, lay the cab- bage upon it, and cover it with a cupful of vinegar and a pint of nicely-flavoured stock. When it is quite tender, season it with salt and pepper, drain it, and lay it on a hot dish, and arrange sausages round and over it. If pre- ferred the cabbage may be pressed into a mould and poached eggs served with it. It will warm up again perfectly. Time, one hour. Probable cost, 4d. or Od. Sufficient, one lai-go cabbage for four or five persons. Cabbage, Savoy, and Brussels Sprouts.—Wash and pick ofl: the outer leaves. Place the vegetables in a pan of boiling water, to which has been added a handful of salt and a very small piece of soda. Let them boil quickly until tender. Drain the water from them, and serve as hot as possible. Pepper slightly, and spread a little butter over them. Send a little melted butter to the table with them, but not on them. Savoys should be drained from the water, and may be pressed into the dish, and cut in squares. The best way to keep greens a good colour is to put them into the saucepan when the water is boil- ing ; keep them boiling fast all the time; let them have plenty of room and plen-ty of water; let them be uncovered, and take them up as soon as they are cooked. Time, ten minutes for sprouts, half an hour or more for savoys. Probable cost, 2d. per pound. Two pounds will be sufficient for four or five persons. Cabbage Soup.—Put two ounces of butter or good dripping into a stewpan, and fry in it two sliced onions ; brown the onions nicely. Pour on them two quarts of flavoured stock, and add two pounds of pickled pork, which must not be too salt. Simmer gently for half an hour, and skim well. Shred finely two small cabbages, two turnips, two carrots, and a head of celery, and tlixow them into the boiling liquor. When the vegetables are tender without falling to pieces, the soup wiU be ready. T'ime to prepare, two hours. Probable cost. Is. 2d. per quart. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Cabbage, Stuffed. — Choose a good- sized firm young cabbage. Wash it thoroughly, and lay it in water, to Avhich has been added a table-spoonful of vinegar. Let it remain for half an hour, then drain it, cut oS the stalk, and scoop out the heart, so as to make a space for the stufiing, which may be made of sausage- meat, mixed with chestnuts cut small, or any flavouring that may be preferred. Press the forcemeat into the cabbage, cover it with leaves, which must be well tied on with tape to prevent escape. Place the cabbage in a saucepan with some slices of bacon above and below it, and cover the whole with nicely-flavoured stock. Let it stew gently for half an hour. Take out the cabbage, remove the tape, place it on a hot dii-h, and strain the gravy over it. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for thi-ee or four persons. Cabbage, To keep Fresh. —Have the cabbages cut with two or three inches of stalk, of .which the jiith must be taken out without injuring the rind. Hang the cabbages up by the stalk, and fill the hollow with a little fresh water every day. Cabbages will thus keep fresh for foui- or five weeks. Cabbage, Turnip Tops, and G-reens. —Take some cold greens or turnip tops, dredgeCAK CAB C ) a littL) flour ovLT them, nnd fry thorn in boiling buttor or liird luitil thoy aro slightly browned. Strew a littlo sidt and poppor ovor thcni, and sorvo hot. I'ime to fry, livo or aix niinutoB. Cabinet Pudding, Boiled. - Put a pint of now milk into a saucepan with two tablo-spoonfuls of sugar and the rind of a lemon. Let it neai-ly boil, to extract the liavoui- of the lomon, then add to it four well-beaten eggs. Butter a mould rather thickly, aud ornament it with stoned raisins, Ciindied pool, or in any other way; then fill it with alternate layers of sliced sponge linger biscuits and crushed ratafias. Put in the biscuits lightly, so as not to disturb the ornamentation. When the mould is nearly full, and it is time to steam the pudding, pour the cold custard gradually ovor the cake. Put a piece of buttered writing paper over it, place it ia a saucepan, and steam it (jcntly for an hour. Serve with wine sauce. Probable cost. Is. 2d. Sufficient for six persons. Cabinet Pudding, Cold.—Put half an ounce of gelatine, which has been previously soaked in two table-spoonfuls of water, into a saucepan with a pint of new milk, the rind of a lemon, and two table-spoonfuls of sugar, and boil aU together, stirring the liquid until the gelatine is dissolved. Well oil a plain round mould, and fill it with alternate layers of candied fnaits, three parts crmnbled macaroons, and Savoy biscxiits. Add a little brandy, fill the mould with the milk, and let it stand in a cool place imtU firm. Time to set, five or six hours. Probable cost, Is. 3d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Cabinet Pudding, Plain.—Butter a plain round mould; then fiU it with alternate layers of raisins, bread and butter without crust, sugar, and a little grated nutmeg. Pom- over it a pint of new milk mixed with two well- beaten eggs; flavour and sweeten. Allow it to soak for half an hour; then place a plate on the top, and steam it for one hour. Sufficient for foui- or five persons. Probable cost, lOd. Cabinet Pudding, Rich. — Butter a plain roimd mould; fill it ynVa. alternate layers of dried apricots or candied fruits of any kind, and crtmibled macaroon and Savoy biscuits. Pour a wine-glassful of sherry or brandy over this; then make a custard of a pint of new milk and the weU-beaten yolks of four eggs. When this is quite cold, pour it gently and very gradually over the biscuits. Cover the top of the mould with buttered paper, put it in a sauce- pan, and allow it to steam for one hour. Suffi- cient for four or five persons. Probable cost, 2s. Caf6 ai'. Ijait.—Make some strong clear ooffec. Pom- it into the cup with an equal quantity of boilir g- milk, and sweeten according to taste. This is the coffee which is served in Francs for breakfast, and it is both palatable ar.c1 nutritious. Allow one breakfast - cupful for caca person. Probable cost, 4d. per cup. Cafe Noir.—This is the coffee which is handed round in small cups after dessert in France. It is sweetened, but neither milk or cream is added. It shotud be made exceedingly Btrong, and will be foimd useful in warding off the somnolency which ia often the first result of a good dinner. It should bo made in the same way as bn-aki'unf, <'<jtt'ce, aUowing u cupful of froshly-grouiid cbfl'ee for every four cupfuls of boiling water. Probable cost, 4d. per cup. A small cupful will bo sufficient for each jjorson. Cakes. General Remarks on.—In making cakes, gi-eat care should Ije taken tliat everything which is used should be perfectly dry, as dampness in the materials is veiy likely to produce heaviness in the cake. It is always best to have each ingredient properly prepared before beginning to mix the cake. Currants should be put into a colander and cold water poured over them two or three times, then spread upon a dish and carefully looked over, so tliat any little pieces of stone or stalk may be removed. The dish should then be placed before the fire, and the currants turned over frequently untU they are quite dry. Butter should bo laid in cold water before it is used, and, if salt, should be washed in several waters. It should be beaten with the hand in a bowl tm it is reduced to. a cream, pouring off the water untH no more is left. Flour.—The flour for cakes should be of the best quality. It should be weighed after it is sifted and dried. Eggs.—Each egg should always be broken into a cup before it is put to the others, as this will prevent a bad one spoiling the rest. The yolks and whites should be separated, the specks removed, and then all the yolks trans- ferred to one bowl and the whites to another. The yolks may be beaten with a forktUl they are light and frothy, but the whites must be whisked till they are one solid froth, and no liquor re- mains at the bottom of the bowl, llie eggs should be put in a cool place till required for use. When the whites only are to be used, the yolks, if imbroken, and kept covered, will keep good for three or four days. Sugar.—Loaf sugar is the best to use for cakes ; it should be pounded and sifted. Lemon.—Peel should be cut very thin, as the white, or inner side, wiU impart a bitter fla- vour to the cakes. Almonds for cakes should be blanched by being put into boiHng water, and when they have been in for a few minutes the skin should be taken off and the almonds thrown into cold water to preserve the colour. If they aro poimded, a few drops of water, rose-water, or white of egg should be added in everj- two or three minutes, to prevent them oiling. If they are not pounded they should be cut into thin slices or divided lengthwise. Milk.—Swiss condensed milk will be foimd to be excellent for cakes when cither cream or milk is wanted; but when it is used less sugar -wiU be required. Yeast.—WTion yeast is used for cakes, less butter and eggs arc required. Baking Powder.—Nearly all plain cakes will be made lighter by the addition of a little baking powder. Moulds for cakes should be thickly buttered, and it is a good plan t(i place some well-oiled paper between the mould and the cake.CAE ( 91 ) CAK Bakinff.—SmsLil cakes require a quick oven when they are fii-st put in, to make them rise, but the heat should not be increased after they have begun to bake. Lai-ge cakes should bo put into a moderate oven, in order that they may be well baked in the middle before they are overdone on the outside. In order to ascer- tain if a cake is sufficiently baked, insert a skewer or knitting-needle into the centre of it, and if it comes out perfectly clean, the cake is sufficiently ready, but if anything is sticking to it, the cake must bo put back into the oven at once. Cakes should be gently turned out of the mould when ready, placed on the top of the oven to dry, then laid on their sides to cool. They should bo kept in a cool place, and in tin canisters, closely covered. A cake keeps better when made without yeast. Cake, Cheap and Wholesome.— "When bread is made at home, it is easy to make a good wholesome cake from the dough, of which a little must be taken out of the bowl after it has begun to rise. Allow four ounces of butter, a quarter of a pound of moist sugar, a little grated nutmeg, some chopped lemon- rind, or candied peel, and either a quarter of a pound of currants or a few bruised caraway- seeds to one quartern of dough. Mix these ingredients thoroughly, dredge a little flour over them, and place the bowl near the fire, covering it with a thick cloth. When well risen, put it into buttered tins and bake immediately in a moderately-heated oven. One quartern of dough wiU be enough for a good-sized cake. Cake, Common.—Mix two and a half pounds of flour with half a poimd of brown sugar. Stir in a tea-cupful of good yeast and half a pint of lukewarm milk. Knead these well together, and set the dough near the fire to rise. When it rises, add half a pound of picked currants, or two tea-spoonfuls of cara- way-seeds, and half a pound of melted butter in another half pint of milk. Knead again, and let the mixture rise once more. Put it into tins, and bake in a moderate oven. Time to bake, about an hour. The above ingredients will be sufficient for two large cakes. Probable cost, 8d. each. Cake, Diet Bread..—Beat four eggs, then add to them a quarter of a pound of dried flour, and half a pound of loaf sugar, with six drops of almond flavouring. When these are well mixed together, place them near the fire to warm, then pour into a well-buttered mould, and bake in a moderate oven. Time to bake, half an hour. Sufficient for a small mould. Probable cost, 7d. Cakes.—Directions for making the follow- ing cakes will be found imder their respective headings :— AnERFRAU Albany Al.mond, oe Maca- roons Almond Cheese Ai jMoxd, Icing for Almond, Plain Almond, Rich Almond, Sponge American Breakfast, oil Griddle American Velvet Breakfast American White Annie's Apple Apple Tart or Athole Aunt Edward's Christmas aurelian Banbury Batter, of Indian Meal Beef Brain Bread, Fried Breakfast, or Eolls Bride Buckwheat Buttermilk Garbage Canadian Cheap Children's Christmas Cinnamon Citron Cocoa-nut Cocoa-nut, Pound Cod-fish Corn-meal Corporation Cream Cream of Rice Cream of Tartar Curd Cheese Currant Date Derwentm'Ater Dessert Devonshire Devonshire, Short Dover Egg Powder Elecampane or Candy Fish Flame French Frost, or Icing for Genoa Genoese German Ginger Cup Gipsy Girdle Glove Gooseberry Graham Guernsey Hare Hazel-nut Honey- Honey, German Icing for Imperial Indian Griddle Indian Meal, Johnny- Irish Irish Griddle Irish Luncheon Irish Seed ' Johnny, or Journey Josephine Kneaded Lafayette Lemon Lemon, Rich Loaf Loaf, Indian Meal Loaf, Luncheon Love Ltincheon Luncheon, from Dough Luncheon, Plain Mac^vroon Magdalen Malaprop Manx Meat, Moulded Milk, Breakfast MODENA Montrose My Own Neapolitan Nun's Oat Oat, Lancashire Oat with Yeast Oatmeal Bannocks 0R.4.NGE Oswego Parisian Parliament Passover Paste Petticoat Tails Plain Plum Plum, Common Polish Potato Potato Cheese Pound Pudding Queen Queen's CiNNAMoif Quince Ratafia Rice Rice Cheese Rusk Sally Lunns Sand Sausage Meat Savarin Savoy Scotch Scotch, Christmas Scotch, Diet Scrap Seed Seed, Common Seed, Plain Seed, Superict. Short Shrewsbury Simple Snow- Soda Spanish Sponge Sponge, Smali Sugar SijSTER Tea Tipsy TuNBEIOaE TurinCAL ( 02 ) CAL TWELITU Veal a la Boiidykk Venktian Victoria Vienna Watku WuiTK Yeast youkshirb Yule Caledonian Cream.—Mix thoroughly two ounces of raspborry jam, two ounces of red currant jelly, and two ounces of finely-powdered sugar, with the whites of two eggs which have boon boiitcn to a finn froth. Beat them for three-quarters of an hour. This miikos a very pretty cream, inexpensive and good. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for a small dish. CalTs Brains la Fran^aise).—Fry eighteen button onions to a light brown in butter, stir in a table-spoonful of flour, and then add equal quantities of broth and French red wine, a quarter of a pint or more of each, put in a Little salt and pepper, and simmer half an hour. Put the brains into this, remembering first to wash and sldn them; boil them in salted water mixed with a tea-spoonful of vinegar for ten minutes, and lay them in cold water until wanted. Add a dozen small mush- rooms, and simmer eight or ten minutes until they are done. Serve with the sauce, and gar- nish with the onions and mushroomfl. Time to boil the sauce, haH an hour. CalTs Brains (a la Maitre d'Hotel) . -Re- move the skin and the fibres from two sets of calves' brains. Wash them several times in cold water, then place them in boiling water, adding a table-spoonful of vinegar, a little salt, and a small piece of butter. Let them boil for about half an hour, then remove and divide them. Cut some thin slices of stale bread into roimds, fry them in boiling butter or oil, place the brains on the bread, and pour over the whole ' Maitre d'Hotel sauce. Probable cost of the i calf's head (the brain is not sold without), 5s. to 9s. Sufficient for three or four persons. Calfs Brains (en Matelote).—"Wash the brains in several waters, remove the skin, and boil them in salt and water, with a little vinegar in it, for ten minutes. Take them out and lay them in cold water unto, they are wanted. Put a piece of butter the size of a large egg into a saucepan, let it melt, mix smoothly with it a tea-spoonful of flour. Put to this three small onions sliced, then add a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, a clove, a bay-leaf, half a pint of stock, and a glass of white wine. When these are mixed thoroughly together, put the brains with them, and let them stew gently until they are done. Time to stew, a quarter of an hour. Sufficient for two or three per- sons. Calfs Brains, Fried.—Wash the brains in several waters, take off the skin and remove the fibres, then boil them in salt and water, with a little vinegar, for ten minutes. Cut the brains into slices, moisten them with vinegar, salt and popper, dip them in a little batter, and fry in boiling oil or butter. Fry a bimch of parsley, dry it before the fire, and put it in the middle of a hot dish with the brains round it. Time to fry, four or five minutea. Suffi- cient for two persons. Cairs Brains, Pried (another way) Wash the braiuH, pick them clean, and let them iio m cold water for an hour. Boil them in water with a little vinegar for ton minutes, cool and cut tliem into Klices. Drain and dip them into a batter made with two table-spoonfuls of baked Hour, two eggs, and a quarter of a pint ot cream ; this batter should be well beaten for fifteen mmutes before it is used. Half fill an iron saucepan with frying fat, make this hot, then fry cjich piece, well dipped in batter, till it 18 a pale brown colour. Send them to table with a, bunch of fried parsley in the centre of the dish, and the slices of brains round it. They should be served very hot. Time, fifteen minutes to fry. Calf's Brains and Green Sauce.— Wash the brains in several waters, remove the skin, and cut each in four pieces. Put them into a saucepan with a little salt and water, and half a gill of vinegar, and boil quickly for half an hour. Put into another saucepan a piece of butter the size of a large egg; let it melt, then mix smoothly with it a dessert- spoonful of flour, a cupful of stock, and a little salt and pepper. Let these boil up, then stir into the sauce a dessert-spoonful each of chopped mushroom, chopped gherkins, and parsley boiled and minced. Drain the brains, place them on a hot dish, and pour the sauce round them. Sufficient for two persons. Probable cost of sauce, 6d. or 7d. the half-pint. CalTs Brains and Parsley.—Remove the skin and the fibres, and wash the brains in several waters. Boil them in salt and water, to which has been added a table-spoonful of vine- gar and a little butter. Drain and divide them. Then put a little fried parsley in the middle of a hot dish, place the brains round them, and pour browned butter over the whole. Time to boil the brains, about half an hour. Sufficient for two persons. Calf's Brains and Tongue. — Remove the skin and the fibres, and wash the brains in several waters. Boil them in salt and water, and drain and chop them. Put them in a saucepan with half a cupful of melted butter, a tea-spoonful of parsley which has been boiled and chopped, a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice, and a little salt and cayenne pepper. Skin and trim the boiled tongue, place it in the middle of the dish, and pour the sjiuce round it. Time to boil the brains, a quarter of an hour. The brains of one head will serve for a tongue. Calfs Brains with Wine.—Wash and skin the breuns, and blanch them in boiling salt and water mixed with vinegar. Put two or three rashers of bacon into a stewpan, with two sliced carrots, two sliced onions, two cloves, one bay-leaf, a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, a bunch of thyme, a little pepper and salt, and a glass of white wine. Add the brains, and let all simmer gently. When done, strain the gravy, and pour it roimd the brains. Time, half an hour. Sufficient for two or three persons. Calfs Chitterlings, Praise, or Crow, These are the difi'erent names given to the fatCAL ( 93 ) CAL round the atomach of the calf, and in some parts they fonn a favourite dish. They niay be served in two or three ways. First wash and cleanse them thoroughly. Lay them in salt and water for a night, place them in boiling water for a quarter of an hour, then dip into cold water, and drain them. Cut them into small pieces, and put them into a saucepan with a little stock, two or throe slices of bacon, an onion, a bay-leaf, and salt and pepper. Let them simmer gently, and when done place them in a hot dish, reduce the gi'avy, thicken it with a little flour, add vinegar and sliced cucumber, and serve as a sauce. Or, prepare as above. After being boiled a quarter of an hour, dip the pieces into a little batter, and fry them in boilmg dripping imtil they are a light brown, then serve with fried parsley. Or, prepare as above. After being boiled for a quarter of an hour rub them over with butter, and bake in a good oven. CalfsEars (a la Bechamel). Cut off four calves' ears rather deeply, trim them evenly, «cald the hair off, and cleanse them thoroughly. Boil them in milk and water till tender; then di-ain them, and fill the inside of each with a little veal forcemeat; tie them with thread, and stew them in a pint of stock, seasoned with pepper and salt, and an onion with three cloves stuck in it. When done, drain them. Add a dozen stewed mushrooms, and the yolk of an egg- beaten in a cupful of cream, to the liquor in which they were boiled, first taking out the onion and cloves. Put the ears into a dish, pour the sauce round them, and garnish with forcemeat balls and sliced lemon. Time to stew, about half an hour. Sufficient for three or four persons. Calf's Ears (a la Neapolitaine).—Prepare the ears as above. Place them in a saucepan vnth rashers of bacon under and over, suf- ficient stock to cover the whole, and simmer gently until sufficiently cooked. When done, drain and fill them with a forcemeat made of four ounces of crumbs, a cupful of mUk, four ounces of Parmesan cheese, a piece of butter the size of a walnut, and the yolks of two eggs. ^ Tie them well with thread, then dip them in butter, cover them with bread-crumbs, and fry till they are a light brown. Time to frj', ten minutes. Sufficient for three or four persons. CalPs Feet.—Calfs feet are generally prepared for boiling by the butcher; but if this is not done, they should be put into water just upon the point of boiling, and kept in it for two or three minutes, when the hair must be scraped off, the hoofs knocked off on the Rdgo _ of the sink, the claws split, and the fat that is between them taken away. They must then bo washed with scrupulous care and nicety. Probable cost, 4d. to 8d. each. Calf's Teet and Sauce—Thoroughly cleanse two calfs feet; place them in a sauce- pan, and pour over them three pints of cold water. Let them simmer gently for four hours, then split them in halves, and trim nicely, cut them into neat pieces, and drain the water from them. Take a cupful of finely-grated bread- crumbs, mix with them a small onion chopped small, a little grated nutmeg, a salt-spoonful of salt, and a third of a salt-spoonful of pepper. Dip the pieces into egg, then into the crumbs, and fiy them in boiling oil or butter until nicely browned. Put them in the middle of a hot dish, with a sauce round them made as follows:—Chop finely three large onions, three large mushrooms, and three tomatoes. Put these into a saucepan with a grain of powdered ginger, a quarter of a nutmeg grated, a salt-spoonful of salt, the same of mustard, a little cayenne, a small piece of sugar, and a glassful of white wine. ISimmer gently, stirring all the time, till the onions are tender. Time to stew the feet, four hours. Probable cost, 4d. to 8d. each. Sufficient for three or four persons. Calfs Foot (a la Poulette).—Calf8 feet which have been boiled for stock may (if not too much cooked) be made into an agreeable dish by serving them in a little Poulette sauce. Take out the bones, press the meat till cold, and cut it into neat pieces. Put a piece of butter the size of an egg into a saucepan, let it melt, then add gradually a table-spoonful of flour. Mix the paste thoroughly with a wooden spoon for two or three minutes, until it is quite smooth; then dilute it with the third of a pint of nicely-fla- voured stock, and keep on stirring for ten or fif- teen minutes. Draw the saucepan from the fire for a minute or two, thicken the soup with the well-beaten yolks of two eggs, and season with a little pepper and salt. Put the jjieces of calf's feet into the sauce, let them become hot, without boiling, stir in a little lemon-juice, and serve. Chopped parsley, shalots, or mushrooms should be added to this sauce. Sufficient for two feet. Calf's Foot, Baked or Stewed.— Wash a calf's foot very carefully, and rub it over with pepper, salt, and a little powdered cinnamon. Place it in a saucepan or dish, and cover it wdth a pint and a half of water. The knuckle- bone of a ham, the end of a dried tongue, or even a few pieces of beef may be added, with a little celery, an onion stuck with four or five cloves, and a carrot. Let these simmer either in the oven or on the fire for tlu-ee or foui- hours. In either case they must be closely covered. When quite tender, take out the bones, and cut the meat into neat pieces.. Strain the gravy, skinaming oft' the fat, add to it a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and thicken it with a dessert-spoonful of ground rice. Let it boil up, then put in the pieces of meat, a squeeze of lemon-juice, a glass of white wine, and serve hot. Probable cost, 4d. to 8d. per foot. One foot will be found sufficient for one or two persons. Calf's Foot Boiled with Parsley and Butter. — Thoroughly clean two calf s feet, divide them at the joint, and split the hoofs. Put three rashers of bacon into a stew- pan, with a piece of butter the size of an egg, a large onion stuck with five or six cloves, the juice of a lemon, and a little salt and pepper. Care must be taken not to put too much salt, as the bacon will probably supply what is neces- sary. Lay the feet on the bacon, and cover the whole with one pint of stook. lict them simmerCAL CAL Tery gently for three hours or more ; then take out the feet, put them on a hot dish, find pour some piirsloy and butter over them {see I'arsley and Butter). Calf's Foot Broth.—Wush carefully one calf's foot, and put it into a saucepan with thi'oe pints of water, the rind of a l(»uion, a luni]) of sugar, and a salt-spoonful of salt. If a knuckle- bone of a hiun can be put >vith it, it will bo an improvement. Let those simmer gently together until the liquid is reduced one half, skimming it very carefully from time to time. Then poiu- it out, and let it stand aside to get cold, so tliat the fat may be entirely removed. When tliis has been done, put it back into the saucepan, let it boil, add the beaten yolks of two eggs, and stir the liquid again over the firo for a few minutes until it thickens; but on no accoimt allow it to boil. This is a very nom-ishing broth. If it is preferred, the calf's foot may bo boiled in milk and water. Time, three hours. Probable cost, one calf's foot, 4d. to 8d. Sufficient for a pint and a half of broth. Calf S Foot Broth (another way).—Stew down a calf's foot in three pints of water till the liquid is reduced one haK, carefully re- moving all scum. Put it aside in a basin until quite cold, and take ofE the fat from the surface; then' warm up about half a pint of this jelly with a piece of butter the size of a pigeon's egg, and flavour it with sugar, nutmeg, and lemon-peel to taste; beat well the yolk of an egg, and add it to the broth, stirring it all the time till it thickens, but do not let it boU or the broth will be curdled and spoiled. Probable cost, calf's foot, 4d. to 8d. Sufficient to make a pint and a half of broth. Calfs Foot, Curried.—Prepare two feet as in the last recipe, remove the bones, and cut the meat into neatly-shaped pieces. Put a piece of butter the size of a large egg into a stewpan. Let it melt; slice into it two large onions and a sour apple. Stir these over the fire till soft, then rub them through a sieve. Mix with the pulp a table-spoonful of curry-paste and also a little ground rice. Add, gradually, sufficient of the liquid"in which the feet were boiled to moisten the whole with- out making it too thin, put in the meat, the onions, and pepper and salt to taste. Simmer aU gently together for a few minutes ; then pile the curry in the centre of a hot dish with a border of rice round it. .Time to boil the feet, four hours; to simmer, quarter of an hour. Probable cost. Is. Sufficient for three or four persons. CalPs Foot, Fried.—A good dish may be made of two caK's feet which have been boiled for stock, and taken out while they are still firm. Remove the bones, and when the flesh is cold, cut it into small, nicely-shaped pieces, which must be placed for an hour in a pickle made with two table-spoonfuls of tarragon rinegar, one table-spoonful of oil, one bay-leaf, two pinches of salt, and one of pepper. Turn them two or three times. Take them out, drain them, dredge a little flour over them, and fry them in boiling butter or oil till they are lightly browned. Put them on a hot dish, and serve them with fried parsley. Probable cost, 4d.,. without the calf's feet. Sufficient for four or fiv(! persons. Calf s Foot Fritters.—Prepare the calf's feet as in the lust recipe, but, before they are fried, lay each piece in a light batter made thus:—Pour a cupful of boiling water over a piece of butter about the size of a walnut, and when it is melted, add to it lialf a pint of cold water. Stir this gi-adualJy into four table- spoonfuls of fine flour, and mix with it the yolks of two eggs and a little SJilt and pepper. A few minutes before it is wanted, add the well-whisked whites of the eggs. Half fill a stewpan with frying fat, let this boil till it is still, then fry the pieces of meat in it. Drain them from the fat, pile them on a hot dish, and serve them with pickled gherkins. Time to stand in the pickle, one hour; to fry, ten minutes. Tliis quantity will suffice for four persons. Probable cost, 8d., without the calf's feet. Calfs Foot Jelly.—In order to obtain calf's foot jeUy quite clear, care should be taken, first, to mix the ingredients when they are cold; and secondly, not to stir the jelly after it has once boiled and risen in the saucepan. Take a pint and a half of calf's foot stock {see Calf's Foot Stock), and be very particular that it is free from every particle of fat and sediment. Put it into a saucepan with the strained juice and thinly-peeled rind of two large lemons, three table-spoonfuls of pounded loaf sugar, a glass of white wine, the whites and shells of four eggs (the whites must be beaten, but not to a froth), and half an ounce of clarified isinglass. Let these stand for a few minutes; then put them on a slow fire, and stir them a little until the liquid boils and rises in the pan; when this point is reached the jelly should not be touched again. Let it boil for twenty minutes; the scum may be gently removed as it rises. Draw the jelly to the side of the fire, and let it stand to settle twenty minutes longer. Wring out the j elly-bag in hot water, and pour the j elly through it. If it is not perfectly clear (which, however, it can scarcely fail to be, if attention has been paid to the directions given), strain it two or three times until it is. Do not keep it in a metal mould—it will be likely to discolour it. It should be kept in a cool place, and in summer will most likely require a little ice round it. If the stock be very strong, the isinglass may be dispensed with, but it is always safer to put a little with the jeUy. When aU the liquid has run through the bag, an agreeable and refreshing beverage mav be obtained by pourmg a little boiling water "through it. Sufficient for rather more than a quart. Probable cost, ■svithout the sherry, Is. per pint. Calfs Foot Jelly, Apple.—Put a pint of apple juice into a siiucepan with a pint of clear calf's foot stock {sec Calf's Foot Stock), the rind and juice of a lemon, a table-spoonful of sugar, a small glass of brandy, and the whites and pounded shells of three eggs. Mix these well together, and let them boil gently for fifteen minutes. Take the jelly from the fire, let it stand to settle, and strain it through a jelly-bag imtil quite clear ; then pour it into a mould. If the stock is not \oxy stiff, add a littloCAL ( •95 > isinglass. Sufficient for two and a haM. pints of jelly. Probable cost, Is. per pint. Calfs Foot JeUy, Lemon—Mrs a quart of strong calf's foot stock, clear and free from fat and sediment, with a cupful of strained lemon-juice and thi-ee-quarters of a pound of loaf sugar, which has been rubbed on the rind of two lemons. Put these into a saucepan with the well-beaten whites and crushed shells of five e"-gs. Proceed as for ciilf's foot jelly. Time to boil, by the side of the fire, twenty minutes. Probable cost. Is. 6d. per pint. Suffi- cient, one pint and a half of jelly for five or six people. Calfs Foot Jelly, Maraschino.— Take one quart of clear calf's foot stock. Pro- ceed according to the directions given for making calf's foot jeUy, remembering only to omit the sherry, and to rub the rind of two lemons on the sugar before it is added to the stock. When it has rim through the jelly-bag and is quite clear, add two glasses of maraschino to it, and pour a little of the jelly into a mould; let it set, then fill the mould'with alternate layers of jelly, and either fresh strawberries or pre- served peaches. Put it in a cool place, and when it has set, turn it out of the mould. Time to set, two hours with ice, ten or twelve without. Probable cost, Is. per pint, without the maraschino. A pint and half mould win be sufficient for five or six persons. Calf's Foot Jelly of Four Fruits.— Dissolve one pint of calf's foot apple jelly {see Calf s Foot Apple JeUy), and pour about a quarter of it into an earthenware mould ; let it nearly set, then arrange, as tastefully as pos- sible, fine fresh bimches of white and red cur- rants, strawberries, cherries, raspberries, or any fruit that can be had. If fresh fruits are not in season, any fruits which have been preserved whole may be used instead, such as peaches, plums, or apricots. Add the jelly and the fruit gradually before more is put in. Set it in a cool place, and when stiff, it may be turned out. Probable cost, lOd. per pint mould. Time to set, twelve hours. Calf s Foot Jelly of Four Fruits (another way).—Put two pounds of fresh fruit (made up half of red currants and \hn other half of mixed cherries, strawberries and rasp- berries) into an earthenware jar, cover it closely, then place it in a saucepan, filled three parts with cold water; let it simmer very gently over a moderate fire for half an hour; then pour the contents into a jellj'-bag, and let the juice drop from it, but do not squeeze it. Proceed as for calf's foot apple jeUy, substituting the juice of the four fruits for apple juice, and omitting the brandy. Time to set, twelve hours. Probable cost. Is. per pint. Sufficient, a pint and a half of jelly lor five or six persons. Calfs Foot Jelly, Orange.—Put a quart of strong calf's feet stock into a sauce- pan with a pint of the strained juice of oranges, the juice of two lemons, a quarter of a pound of sugar, on which the rinds of the lemons have been rubbed, half an ounce of melted isinglass, and the whites and crushed sheila of five eggs. Proceed as for calf's foot jelly, Three or four grains of saffron will im- prove the appearance of the dish. If it is preferred, the mould may be filled with alter- nate layers of jelly and quartered oranges, as directed in a previous recipe. Time to set, two hours with ice, ten or twelve without it. Probable cost. Is. per pint. Sufficient, a pint and half mould for five or six persons. Calf S Foot Mould.—A relishing break- fast dish may be made of the meat of calf's feet after they have been boiled for jelly, broth, stock, &c., if not overdone. Take out all the bones, and cut the meat of one foot into small pieces, mixing with it the juice and rind of a lemon, a small onion finely minced, and flavour- ing it with salt, cayenne, andpo wdered cinnamon. Put it into a saucepan with a piece of butter tho size of an egg, stir it over the fire for about ten minutes, and pour it into a mould. Probable cost of a calf's foot, 4d. to 8d. Sufficient for a small breakfast dish. Calf s Foot, Roasted.—Boil two calf's feet for one hour and a half, then take them out of the saucepan, di-ain the water from them, tie them together, and fasten them on a spit. Baste freely with a little broth, which has not been cleared from fat, and when they have been before the fire about half an hour, di-edge them with flour, baste with butter, and allow them to remain untU they are nicely browned. "When sufficiently cooked, place them on a hot dish, and pour roimd them a little brown sauce flavoui'cd with port. Time, two hours and a half. Probable cost, calf's feet, 4d. to 8d. each. Sufficient for three or four persons. Calf S Foot Soup.—Cut two calf's foot into about twelve pieces, and put them into n- saucepan, with half a head of celery, a bunch oi parsley, a small sprig of thyme, an onion with five or six cloves stuck into it, and two quarts of nicely-flavoured stock. Simmer all gently together, skimming the liquid carefully, for two hours. Take out the feet, strain the liquor, return it to the saucepan, and thicken it with two dessert-spoonfuls of finely-sifted rice flour. A few minutes before the soup is wanted, add pepper and stilt, and stir gradually into it a cupful of milk or cream, mixed with the yolks of two eggs and a glass of white wine. Stir it over the fire for two or three minutes, but on no account allow it to boil. Serve, with the pieces of calf's feet, in the tureen. Probable cost, 7d. per pint, if made with milk, and exclu- sive of the wine. Sufficient for three pints of soup. Calf S Foot, Stewed.—Wash and clean two calf's feet very carefully. Cut them into pieces, and put them into a saucepan with a pound and a half of beefsteak, cut in pieces and rolled in flour, a head of celery, and an onion stuck with cloves. Cover them with stock, or water if the stock is not at hand, and let them simmer gently for three hours. Take them off the fire, strain tho gravy, and skim off the fat; then boil the gravj up again with a cupful of new milk and a little salt and pepper. Put in the pieces of meat to heat, but do not allow them to boil. Servo with the meatCAL CAL in tho middle of the dish, and the gi-avy poured round. Two foot will bo Hufficiont for thi-oo or four persons. Calfs Foot Stewed with Herbs.— AV'ash a calf's foot. Wlion it is thorouglily clean, boil it in a quart of water until the flosh can bo easily taken from the bono, llomovo the bones, and cut tho llesh into small, evenly- shaped pieces. Put a piece of butter the size of a largo ogg into a stowpan, let it molt, then put into it tho pieces of meat, having previously salted, peppered, and rolled them in flour. Lot them remain in tho boiling butter until they are nicely browned ; put with them two small onions, a dozen mushrooms chopped finely, and a bunch of savoury herbs; mix tlie stock in by degrees, and let them simmer gently for haK an hour or so ; then add tho juico of a lemon, and three well-beaten eggs. Do not allow the liquid to boil again after the eggs have been added. If the sauce is not sufficiently thick, a little more flour may be mixed in before the eggs and vinegar. If any of the liquor in which the meat was boiled is not required for the sauce, it will be found very useful for gravies, ■&C. CalTs Foot Stock, Cheap Substi- tutes for.—Ox heels may be used instead of ealf's feet for stock. They should be bought before they are boiled at all. They are fre- quently offered for sale when they are partially dressed, and must be very carefully cleansed. They may be bought for 4d. or 5d. each, and as two calf's feet will produce a quart of stock, and two cow's heels three pints, it is a decided saving to use the latter. Ten shank bones of mutton, which maybe bought in some parts veiy <jheap, wni yield as much jelly as a calf's foot. Calfs Foot Stock for JeUy.—Take four calf's feet properly dressed and cleansed. Put a gallon of water into a saucepan with the feet, and let them boil very gently but con- tinuously until the liqmd is reduced to half. ■Strain it, and let it stand until stiff. Then remove every particle of fat from it, pouring a cupful of boiling water over it, and placing a piece of blotting paper on the top after you have taken it off to insure its being quite free from grease. Eemember to leave the sediment behind when you use the stock. Time to boil the feet, six or seven houi-s. Calf S Head.—It is better to order a calf's head a day or two before wanted, especially if only half a one is required, and a half is auffi Client for a dinner for a small family. The heads are sold by butchers either sldnned or nnskinned, and if they are sent home unskinned ^eat care must be taken to scrape the hair off as closely as possible. To do this the head must bo put into water which is just upon the point of boiling, and remain there for a few minutes after it does so, then taken out and the hair scraped off with a blunt knife, the head divided, and tho brains and tongue taken out. The head must bo most carefully washed. The first thing to do, on receiving a caK's head, is to remove tho brains, throw them into cold water for an hour, drain them, and boil them in salt and water for a quarter of an hour, and put them on one side. Put the head into cold water and wash it well, clearing the cavities inside with the fingers, ky it in fresh cold water, and leave it there to draw out the blood, &c. One of the choice bits of a calf a licad lies deep in the socket of the eye. It is always best to cook a calfs head as soon as possible, and while it should bo thoioughlj cooked, it should not be overdone. It ought to be served in slices; and to secure tliis it should be bomid with a little broad tape. When it is to be served, lay it, cheek upwards, on the dish ac it cornea from the water, or brush it over with beaten egg, dust bread-crumbs over it, and brown it. The brains and tongue should bo sent to table with it on a separate dish; and a dish of liam ot bacon is considered by many persona an im- provement. Calf's head is usually garnished with sliced lemon. Probable cost, 5s. to 9n. Calf's Head (a la Poulette). — Take a dozen good-sized mushrooms, cut off the end of the stalks, and rub the tops with a piece of flannel dipped in salt. Put a piece of butter the size of a large egg into a stewpan, let it melt, arid put in the mushrooms. Shake them over a hot fire for a few minutes, turn them into a basin, and keep them covered imtil they are wanted for use. Cut the remains of a cold calf's head into nicely-shaped sUcos, and lay them on one side. Put a piece of butter the "size of an egg into a saucepan, let it melt, mix with it very smoothly a dessert-spoonful of flour. Stir it imtil it is lightly browned; add to it very gradually, stirring all the time, a large breakfast-cupful of boiling stock, and a little pepper and cayenne. Let this boil up, add the mushrooms, and boU the sauce gently for a quarter of an hour. Put in the meat, and let it simmer till quite hot; draw the sauce- pan to the side of the fire, let it cool for two minutes, when the beaten yolks of two eggs may be mixed with it. Stir the preparation over the fire till it thickens, but on no account allow it to boil, and at the last squeeze in the juice of half a lemon. Serve on a hot dish. Time, half an hour. Probable cost, without the cold meat. Is. 3d. Sufiicient for four or five persons. Calf's Head (a la Maitre d'Hotel).—Take the remains of a cold calf's head, and cut it into neat slices, leaving out the bones, &c. Make pome Maitre d'Hotel sauce, consisting of half i pint of good melted butter, mixed with two dessert-spoonfuls of parsley boiled and chopped, the juice of a small lemon, and a little salt and pepper. Let this boil, then put in the pieces of calf's head, let them become quite heated, without boiling, and serve on a hot dish, gar- nished with sippets of toast. Calf's Head la Poulette).—As before, take the remains of a cold calf's head, and cut it into neat slices, leaving out the bones, &c. Make a sauce, as follows: Melt an ounce of butter in a small saucepan, and mix smoothly with it a dessert-spoonful of flour, a quarter of a pint of stock or water, and a little salt and cayenne. Stir the sauce over the fire till it boils, draw the saucepan from the fire for a couple of minutes, and add, very gradually, the yolks of two eggs mixed with a cupful ofCAL CAL (y7) cream or milk. Stir the mixture over the fire for a minute or two, but on no account allow it to boil; add a dessert-spoonful of lemon-juice, some chopped parsley, and five or six small mushrooms. Make the meat hot in the sauce and serve. Probable cost of sauce, Is. Suffi- cient for half a pint of sauce. CalTs Head la Sainte Menehould).— Tike the remains of a calf's head boiled in the usual way. Cut them into slices, and pour over these a sauce prepared as follows:—Dissolve an ounce of butter over the fire, and mix smoothly with it half a dessert-spoonful of flour; add a little salt and pepper, and either a quarter of a pint of water, or as much nicely-flavoured stock as will make the sauce as thick as cream. Sim- mer this sauce over the fire for a few minutes. Draw the saucepan to the side, let its contents cool for half a minute, and stir into these the well-beaten yolks of three eggs. Cover the calf's head with the sauce and a thick layer of bread-crumbs. Pour over these a little clari- fied butter, and more bread-crimibs. Place the dish in a Dutch oven, brown the surface before the fire, and serve with sauce piquante. Time to make the sauce half an hour. Suffi- cient for six or eight persons. Calfs Head (a la Tortue).—This dish, which is elaborate and apparently difficult, will not be found to be beyond the power of any one who can please the eye as well as the palate, and, after having flavoured a dish judiciously, can aiTange it elegantly. Procure a large calf's head, properly prepared. Scald it with the skin on. Remove the brains, which must be boiled, chopped, and made into cakes, with bread-crumbs, chopped parsley, pepper, salt, and egg. They can then be put on one side and fried in a little hot butter just before they are wanted. Boil the head in the usual way (see Calf's Head, Boiled) tUl it is sufficiently tender to allow the bones to be taken away without altering the shape of the head. Do not take away the tongue, as it will help to preserve the form. Take a large stewpan, melt three ounces of butter in it, and when it is brown, mix smoothly with it two table-spoonfuls of rice flour. Add just enough of the liquor in which the head was boiled to cover the meat, but before putting the head in, season the sauce with salt, cayenne, nutmeg, four large tomatoes stewed, and two glasses of sherry. Let it boil up, then put in the calf's head, and when this is hot it is ready to serve. Now comes the arrangement of the dish, and for this no clear directions can be given; it must be left to the taste of the cook, and depend greatly on the materials at command. The brain cakes, of course, must be used, and they may be heated in the sauce, as also may button mushrooms, forcemeat balls, the yolks of eggs boiled hardj sliced truffles, cock's-combs, real or artificial! On and about the head may be placed fried eggs, crayfish, prawns, gherkins, cut into balls and soaked in cold water a little before they are wanted. The ears may be scored and curled, and little stars or diamonds of puff paste fried in butter may be dotted about the dish. The truffles, prawns, &c., may be fastened on wnth silver skewers. It is generaUy found better to boil and bone this dish the day before it is wanted. Time to stew in the gravy, three-quarters of an hour. Sufficient for ten or twelve persons. Calfs Head (a la Tortue), another way.— The remains of a cold calf's head may be cut into small squares, warmed in a little good gravy, and ornamented in the same way as the last dish. Make the sauce rather thick, put the meat in the middle of the dish, and garnish as prettily as possible with forcemeat balls, the yolks of hard boiled eggs, and the whites cut into rings, gherkins, olives, and stewed mushrooms. Time to simmer the meat in the gravy, a quarter oi an hour. Calf's Head, Baked.—Take half a calfs head. Prepare it as if for boiling, removing the brains and tongue. Let it simmer gently for half an hour, then take it out of the water, drain it, and fold it in a cloth to dry. Prepare a breakfast-cupful of finely-grated bread-crumbs, mix with them two salt-spoonfuls of salt, half a salt-spoonful of cayenne pepper, two dessert- spoonfuls of finely-shred sage, and the same of parsley. Brush the head over with beaten egg, and strew.the bread-crumbs, &c., over it; let it get dry, then repeat, the second time pouring hot butter over instead of brushing with egg. Fill the hollows of the eyes with crumbs. Bake the head in a good oven, basting it frequently with a cupful of sauce mixed with a dessert- spoonful of vinegar. The tongue and brains must be boiled separately, and cut into pieces, and a little time before the head is sufficiently baked, must be strewed with the crumbs and put into the oven to brown. Serve in a hot dish, with a little gravy round the meat, and oyster sauce in a tureen. Time to bake, two hours. Sufficient, half a head for four persons. Calf's Head, Baked (another way).— Boil half a calf's head in the usual way until tender; then drain it, pour a little hot butter over it, and strew over it rather thickly some grated Parmesan cheese, and put it in a good oven imtU it is nicely browned, which will be ia about three-quarters of an hour. Sufficient for four persons. Calf's Head, Boiled (with or without the Skin).—Thoroughly cleanse a calf's head, remove the brains, and put it into boiling water for ten minutes, to blanch it. Take it out, and lay it in a deep saucepan with sufficient water to cover it; let it boil up, remove the scum very carefully as it rises, draw the pan to the side of the fire, and let it simmer very gently until ready. Wash the brains in two or three waters, remove the skin and the fibres which hang about them, and let them soak for an hour in cold salt and water; pour that away, and put them into a saucepan with some fresh water to which a table-spoonful of vinegar has been added. Take the scum off as it rises, and boil them for a quarter of an hour. Chop them rather coarsely, and put them into a saucepan with a cupful of good melted butter, a table-spoonful of sage leaves chopped small, the same of scalded and fincly-niinccd parsley, a little salt and pepper, and th'd juice of half a lemon. Take out theCAL OAL ( 98 ) tongue, skin it, trim it uboirt the roots, and lay it in tht! middlo of a hot dish with tho brain aauce round it; kot^p it hot. Tho appearance of the calf's head will bo improved if after it is taken up it is brushed over with egg, covered with finely-grated broad-crumbs, and browned. Slices of cut lemon are usually placed round tho dish. A little boiled bacon or pickled pork is sent to table with it, as well as either parsley and butter, tomato or nmshroom sauce, in a tureen. Time to boil, with the skin on, two and a half or three houi-s, according to the size; without, one and a half or two houi-s. Sufficient for seven or eight persons. The liquor in which it is boiled should be carefully preserved; for though a calf's head is insipid if eaten cold, it is excellent warmed, and for this the liquor would be needed. Calf's Head Brawn. — Take half a large c;ilf's head with the skin on. "Wash it well, take out the brains and the soft bone, and lay it in a pickle made of one pound of salt, a quarter of a pound of bay salt, half a pound of moist sugar, and one 'ounce of saltpetre, boiled in three quarts of water for twenty minutes, skimmed, and put aside until cold. Let it stand in this for eight days, turning it every day. Take it out, wash it well, and boil it gently until tender. Eemove the bones, and put the meat while hot into a brawn-tin, flavouring it with salt, pepper, pounded mlace, and a little cayenne. Put a heavy weight on it, and let it stand until firm. Turn it out and garnish with parsley. Time, three or four hours. Sufficient for six or seven persons. * Cairs Head Cheese.—Take the re- mains of a cold calf's head, remove the bones, and chop all the meat—lean, fat, sldn, and tongue—^into small pieces. Put these into a stewpan with a little salt and pepper, the rind half a fresh lemon, a little powdered cin- namon, and all the hrain-sauce that is left. Cover the whole barely with some of the liquor in which the head was boiled, and simmer it gently, stirring it every now and then, for twenty minutes. Remove the rind, and put the rest into a mould which has been soaked in cold water; put a plate and weight over it, and when it is cold, turn out. It wiU make a nice breakfast or supper dish, or can be used for sandwiches. Probable cost, 2d., without the cold meat, &c. Sufficient, a small mould for a breakfast dish. Calfs Head, Collared (to serve cold). —Take a calf's head, properly prepared, re- move the brains, and put it into boiling water for a quarter of an hour to blanch it; wash it thoroughly, put it into cold water, and boU it until the bones can be removed. Bone and lay it flat on the table, and sprinkle over it, in alternate layers, six table-spoonfuls of chopped parsley, some ground pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, pink ham cut into slices, and the yolks of six eggs boiled hard, sliced, and dotted here and there. RoU the head as tightly as possible, tie it in a cloth, and hoil it gently for four hours. Take it out, drain, and put it under a weight, and do not remove the cloth and bandages until it is cold. Calfs Head, Collared (to serve hot). —Take a calf's liead, jiroperly prepared, blanch and boil it until it is sufficiently tender to remove the bones. When they are taken out, lay the head on the table, and spread on it a forcemeat made of tho bi "ain, the tongue, and some of tho meat cut from where it is thickest, mixed with a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, a tea-spoonful of thyme, a tea-spoonful of nuir- joram, the pounded yolks of thi-eo eggs boiled hard, two spoonfuls of brandy, and a little salt, pepper, and nutmeg. lioU the head as tightly as possible, and tie it in a cloth, binding it with tape. Put it into a saucepan with sufficient stock to cover it, and add a carrot, a parsnip, two or three onions, some slices of lemon, a little thyme, four bay-leaves, and salt and peijper. Let it boil gently for three hours, then take it out of tho cloth, and pour round it a sauce made of a pint of the liquid in which it was boiled, mixed with a table-spoonful of chopped mushrooms, a table-spoonful of chopped gherkins, and a little lemon-juice. Sufficient for seven or eight persons. Calf's Head Collops. — Cut a cold calf's head into small neat slices about the third of an inch in thickness. Strew over these a large dessert-spoonful of minced parsley and a little salt and cayenne. Make some good thick batter, dip each piece of meat into it, and fry it in boiling butter or oil until nicely browned. Serve the collops very hot, piled high in a dish, and accompanied with lemon- juice and cayenne. Time to fry, ten minutes. . Probable cost, 6d., without the cold meat. Sufficient, allow two or three collops for each person. Calf's Head, Curried.—Cut up the remains of a calf's head into pieces about an inch square, and lay them on one side. Put a piece of butter about the size of a large egg into a saucepan; let it melt, then slice into it two large onions, and fry them until lightly browned on both sides; take them out, and stir a dessert-spoonful of ciirry powder gradually and smoothly into the butter, and afterwards a small cupful of good stock. "VVhen the sauce is quite smooth, add the cold calf's head and onions; let the mixture boU ten minutes, and just at the last squeeze in the juice of half a lemon. Put it into the centre of a dish, with a border of rice roimd it, boiled as for other curries. If necessary, a little more stock may be added, but curries should not be watery. Probable cost, exclusive of the cold meat, 6d. Sufficient for four persons. Calf's Head, Dappled.—Boil a calf's head until the bones come out easily; take them out, and lay the flesh on a dish, with another dish over it, and a weight on that, so that the head may be oval and flat. When cold, divide it into halves. Brush it over with well- beaten eggs, and over one half strew finely- grated bread-crumbs mixed with salt and cayenne, and over tho other, finely-grated bread-crumbs with an equal quantity of finely- chopped parsley and sage. Bake it in a good oven until it is lightly browned, basting it fre- quently with a little stock. Serve it on £\ hot(99) CAL CAL dish, and send it to table with two tureens of Kiuce—one of parsley iuid butter; and the other nuido of half a pint of good gravy mixed with the brains boiled and chopped small, a flavouring of salt and cayenne and a squeeze of lemon-juice. Time to bake, throe- quarters of an hour. Sufficient for six or eight persons. CalTs Head, Fricasseed.—Cut the re- mains of a cold calf's head into slices about a quarter of an inch thick, and lay them aside until wanted. Put a pint and a half of the liquid in which the head was boiled into a saucepiin with a salt-spoonful of salt, half a salt-spoonful of pepper, a bunch of savoury herbs, and an onion stuck with four cloves. Let these simmer gently for three-quarters of an hour; then strain the liquid, and pour it into a jar until wanted. Put a piece of butter the size of a large egg into a saucepan; let it melt, then mix with it very smootUy a table- spoonful of flour, and afterwards, very gra- dually, the strained liquid. Put the meat in, let it boil, draw it from the fire for a minute or two, and mix with it the beaten yolks of two eggs. Stir it over the fire till it thickens, but do not allow it to boil. Before serving, squeeze in the juice of half a lemon. Time, one hour and a half. Probable cost, exclusive of the cold calf's head, 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Calfs Head, Fried.—Cut the remains of a cold calf's head into pieces about an inch and a half wide. Lay them for three hours in a pickle made of two table-spoonfuls of lemon- juice, the same of white wine, salt, pepper, and powdered cinnamon. Take them out, di-ain them, and dip each piece into a batter. Fry them in boiling fat till they are a bright brown, and pile them in a pyramid on a hot dish. Time, ten minutes to fry. Probable cost, 6d. or 8d., without the wine. Calfs Head, Hashed.—Cut the remains of a cold caK's head into nice slices about a quarter of an inch thick and three or four inches long, and set them aside until wanted. Take the Remains of the brains and beat them up with a dessert-spoonful of chopped parsley, a salt-spoonful of finely-shred lemon-rind, and a little salt and pepper. Make this into cakes, and fry them in hot fat till they are nicely browned. Put a piece of butter the size of a large egg into a saucepan; melt it, then mix with it very smoothly a table-spoonful of flour, half a pint of well-flavoured stock, a little pepper and salt, and cayenne, and the liquor from a score of oysters, or, what will be very good, though not as good, a table-spoonful of the liquor from a tin of Oysters; let this boil up, add the pieces of head, a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and a score of oysters, fresh or tinned. Let all simmer imtil quite hot, but the preparation must not boil again. Serve the meat in the middle. Pour the gravy over, and arrange, alternately, fried bacon and the brain cakes round it. Time altogether, half an hour. Probable cost, exclusive of the meat, with fresh oysters, 2s. 6d.; with tinned oysters, Is. 4d. Sufficient for four or five nersons. CalTs Head Hashed (another way).— Cut the remains of a cold calf's head into neat slices about a quarter of an inch in thickness and three or four inches square. Put two ounces of butter into a saucepan; let it melt, then fry two large onions in it cut into dice, and when they are lightly browned take them out, and mix very smoothly with the butter, one table- spoonful of flour, and a cupful of the liquor in which the head was boiled. Add the onion and two table-spoonfuls of pickled gherkins, chopped small, then the pieces of cold calf's head. Let all simmer gently for two or three minutes; serve as hot as possible. A glass of sherrj' is an improvement. Probable cost, exclusive of the cold meat, 6d. Sufficient for foiir or five persons. Calfs Head, Hashed (another way).— Cut the remains of a cold calf's head into neat slices, dip them in egg and gTated bread-crumbs, and put them aside until they are wanted. Place the bones, gristle, and trimmings into a saucepan with two pints of the liquor in which the head was boiled, and put with them an onion stuck with four cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, and the thinly-peeled rind of half a lemon, with a little salt and cayenne. Let these simmer gently imtil reduced to half; then strain the gravy, and mix it with any of the sauce or brains that may be left, and if these are not sufficient to thicken it, add a little rice flour. The addition of a little white wine is an improvement. Let these simmer gently together for ten minutes. Fry the pieces of meat which are already pre- pared, place them in the middle of the dish, and pour the gravy round them. The egg and bread-cnunbs may be omitted, and the pieces of meat put in the sauce to warm, and little pieces of bacon warmed with it. Time, one hour to simmer the bones and gravy; ten minutes to boil all together. Probable cost, 3d., exclusive of the cold meat. Sufficient for fom- or five persons. Calfs Head, Mock Turtle Soup of. —Take half a calf's head with the skin on, remove the brains, wash it in two or tlireo waters, and boil it gently for an hour and a haK. Take oS. the skin, cut it and the flesh into pieces about an inch and a half square, and throw them into cold water. Drain, and put them into a saucepan, cover with stock, and let them simmer gently for another hour and a half. Put three quarts of nicely-flavoured stock into a separate stewpan, and with it a tea-spoonful of minced thjTtne, a tea-spoonful of marjoram, four bay-leaves, three dessert- spoonfuls of chopped parsley, half an ounce of whole pepper, half an oimce of salt, three onions with four cloves stuck in them, half a head of celery, and two table-spoonfuls of mush- room ketchup. Let these simmer slowly for two hours. Strain the liquor, thicken it with two table-spoonfuls of flour, mixed with a little cold water, and added gradually, then pour it into the same saucepan as the meat, add half a pint of sherry, eight or nine forcemeat balls (one for each person), the hard-boiled yolks of five eggs, and the juice of a lemon. Let all simmer for a few minutes, and serve. The forcemeat balls should be made by mixingCAL CAL ( 100 ) well together the brains, a brcakfiist-cupful of tinoly-gnitod bread-crumbs, a little salt, popper, nutmeg, and parsley, three ounces of butter, and two eggs. Form them into balls about the size of a nutmeg, fry them in boiling oil or di-ipping, and drain them from the fat before thoy ai-e added to the soup. Time, four hours. Probable cost, Is. 6d. per quiirt, with- out the wine. Sufficient for ten or twelve persons. {See also Turtle Soup, Mock.) Cairs Head Mould.—Cut the remains of a cold calf's head into neat slices. Make some clear Scivoui-y jolly with gelatine (see Aspic Jelly, Economical). Put a little of the jelly at the bottom of a plain mould which has been soaked in cold water. Let it set a little, then arrange the pieces of meat in the mould, making them look as nice as possible with a little parsley, pieces of ham or tongue, rings of hard- boiled egg. Leave space between the pieces of meat for the jelly to run through. Nearly fiU the mould -with the meat, pour the jelly over it, and put it in a cool place till stiff enough to turn out. Time, twelve hours to set. Suffi- cient for a breakfast dish. Probable cost, Is. for a moderate-sized mould, exclusive of the meat. Calfs Head Pie.—An excellent j)ie may be made of calf's head. Take one properly prepared, and boil it until the bones can be taken out. Line the edge of a large pie-dish with a good, light crust, put in the pieces of meat, the tongue at the top, season it with salt, pepper, and a little nutmeg, pour over it a cupful of the liquor in which the head was boUed, cover it with a thick crust, and bake in a good oven until nicely browned. While it is baking put the bones of the head into a sauce- pan, with a quart of the liquor, a tea-spoonful of powdered mace, an onion chopped small, and half a salt-spoonful of cayenne pepper. Let it simmer gently imtil it is reduced to half, then strain it, and add two table-spoonfuls of mush- room ketchup and a glass of port. Mix the brains with three or four sage-leaves, chopped small, a little nutmeg grated, and an egg. Make them up into little cakes, and fry them in hot frying fat until they are nicely browned. Put them in the oven to keep warm, with a sheet of blotting paper under them to drain off the fat. Have ready also four or five hard- boiled eggs. When the pie is sufficiently cooked, take off the crust, and lay the brain cakes and the eggs, cut into rings, on the top ; pour the boiling gravy over aU, and fasten the crust on again with the white of an egg before sending the dish to table. Time to bake, an hour and a half or more. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Probable cost, from 6s. to Us. Calfs Head Ragout.—Boil a caFs head, and wlulo the flesh is still firm, take it up, cut it into niee slices, about half an inch thick, and as large as possible. Dust these on both sides with flour, salt, and grated nutmeg. Have a saucepan ready, melt two ounces of ])'itter in it, and fry the pieces of meat, and as crich piece is lightly bro\vncd, ])ut it into a Btewpan. When all the pieces are fried, mix a table-spoonful of flour very smoothly with the butter loft in the pan, and add gradually to this a breakfast-cupful of the liquid in wliich the head was first boiled, and a wine-glassful of sherry or Madeira. Season the liqour with the juice of half a lemon, and a little cayenne. When this sauce is quite smooth, pour it over the meat, and let all simmer together for about ten minutes. Arrange the meat nicely on a hot dish, and pour the sauce round it. Garnish either with brain cakes or toasted sippets. Time, to boil calf's head, one hour and a half. Sufficient for eight or nine jjcrsons. CalTs Head Ragout (another way).— Wash half a calf's headthoroughly, and boil it for about three hours. Take it up, drain it, and score the outside skin in diamonds. Brush it over with well-beaten egg, and strew over that a cupful of finely-grated bread-cnunbs, a table- spoonful of chopped parsley, a tea-spoonful of powdered thyme, a tea-spoonful of salt, and half a salt-spoonful of cayenne. Put it in a hot oven, or place it before the fire to brown, and, before sending it to table, squeeze over it the juice of a large lemon, and coveri completely with melted butter. Sufficient for four or five persons. Cairs Head, Roasted.—Wash a calfs head, remove the brains and the tongue, and simmer it gently for three-quarters of an hour. Take it out of the saucepan, and fill it with good veal forcemeat. Sew it up, or fasten it securely with skewers, bind it with tape, and put it down to roast. Baste it constantly, serve good gravy with it, and, before sending it to table, squeeze the juice of a lemon over it. Boil the tongue and brains, and serve them on a separate dish, with a few rashers of bacon roimd them. Time to roast, two hours. Suffi- cient for eight or nine persons. CalTs Head Soup.—Take half a calf's head, properly prepared, and as fresh as it can be got. Wash well, and soak it in cold water for a couple of hours. Take it out, drain it, and put it in a saucepan with three quarts of cold water, and let it simmer gently for three hours, when it may be taken out, and set on one side until wanted. Put two leeks, two carrots, two turnips, all peeled and sliced, two onions with four cloves stuck in them, a bimch of parsley, a sprig of thj-me, half a dozen peppercorns, and a little salt into the liquor. Let these stew gently for another hour, and keep skimming all the time. Strain the soup, and remove the fat, which must be put into a frying- pan, melted, and two large onions sliced into it. Let these brown, add a little of tlic liquor, and mix with them, gradually and very smoothly, three 'table-spoonfuls of rice flour, and a salt- spoonful of the essence of anchovies. Add the rest of the liquor, little by little, and the calfs head cut into pieces about an inch and a half square, and let all boil together for five or six minutes. Serve wth toasted sippets. Probable cost. Is. 8d. per quart. Sufficient for seven or eight persons. CalTs Head, To Carve.—Commence by maldng long slices from end to end of theCAL CAL ( 101 ) cheek, cutting quite through to tho bone, according to the dotted lines from A to b. With each of these slices serve a cut of what calf's head foe cabvikg. is called the throat sweetbread, which lies at the fleshy part of the neck end. Cut also slices from c to D; they are gelatinous and delicate, and serve small pieces with the meat. A little of the tongue and a spoonful of the brains are usually placed on each plate. The tongue is served on a separate plate, surrounded by the brains, and is cut across in rather thin sUces. Some persons prefer the eye. It is removed by a circular cut mai'ked by dotted lines at e. First put the knife in slanting at f, inserting the point at the part of the dotted line, and driving it into the centre under the eye; then turn the hand round, keeping the circle of the dotted line with the blade of the knife, the point stUl in the centre. The eye will como out entire, cone-shaped at the under part, when the circle is completed by the knife. The lower jaw must next be removed, beginning at g ; and to do this properly the dish must be turned. The palate is also considered a dainty, and a little of it should always be offered to each guest. Calf's Head -with Mushrooms.— Take half a calf s head with the skin on, wash it in two or three waters, and boil it about an hour, or until the bones can be removed with- out very much difficulty. Remove the bones, replace the brain, and put the head into a stew- pan with the skin downwards, and just cover it with good brown gravy, season it with salt and cayenne, and let it simmer for half an hour. Rub two dozen button ! mushrooms with a flannel and a little salt, cut the ends off the stalks, which must be separated from the mushrooms, and then put them into a stewpan with a little hot butter, and boil them in it for five minutes, taking care that they do not stick to the pan. Drain them, and put them into the gravy, which may be thickened with a little ground rice, and stew all together for another hour. Serve with veal forcemeat balls, and a few rashers of fried bacon. Time, two and a half hours. Probable cost, 6s. 6d. Sufficient for six persons. Cairs Head, with Oysters.—Boil half a calf's head in tho usual way, remove the brains, and only just cover it with water, fla- voui-ing it with two onions stuck with five or sLx cloves, two bay-leaves, a bunch of parsleyj a sprig of marjoram and thyme, and a little salt and cayenne. When' the head is tender, take it out, strain the liquor, thicken a large breakfast-cupful of it with a dessert-spoonful of fiour, and add the liquor from two dozen oysters, and a breakfast-cupful of milk. Put in the head and simmer again for half an hour. Just before serving, put in the oysters; let them get hot, but do not allow them to boil ot they will be hard. Serve with the oysters round the dish. Time, two hours. The ex- pense of this dish will be much lessened if tinned oysters are used. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Calf's Heart, Boasted. — Wash the heart thoroughly in several waters, then leave it to soak for half an hour. Wipe it drj-, and fill it with good veal stuffing, tie a piece of oiled paper round it, and roast it before a good fire an hour and a half or more, according to tho size. Before serving, take off the paper, sprinkle some flour over it, and baste it well. Send it to table with plenty of good brown gravy, and some fried bacon on a separate dish. Calf's Kidney. — The kidney of a calf may be made into balls, fried in hot butter or oil, and served with good brown gravy and toasted sippets. They must be chopped and made up with bread-ci'umbs, chopped onions, butter, salt, cayenne, and a beaten egg. Time to fry, ten minutes. The kidney is usually sold with the loin. Probable cost, kidneys, 6d. or 8d. Sufficient for two or three persons. Calf's Liver (Mock Pate de Foie Gras). —Soak some calf's liver for half an hour, then dry it in a cloth, and cut it into thin slices, each of which must be dipped in egg, and minced herbs, salt, and pepper strewn over it. Place a layer of these at the bottom of the dish, then a layer of bacon, and over these some sliced truffles and hard-boiled eggs. Repeat until th© dish is full. Pour some good gravy over the whole, cover with a light crust, and bake in a moderate oven. Do not overcrowd the meat in the dish, as there should be plenty of jelly. It must be eaten cold. Time to bake, one hour and a half. One pound of calf's liver will suffice for four or five persons. Calf's Liver, Stewed.—Take two or three pounds of liver, soak it in cold water for about twenty minutes, then put it into a stew- pan with a little melted butter, and let it brown lightly ; pour off the fat, and cover it with some nicely-flavotired stock, and let it stew very gently for a couple of hours or more. Thicken the gravy, and put a couple of glasses of port into it, and the juice of a lemon, or, if pre- ferred, white wine. It is an improvement to lard the liver before putting it into the stew- pan, or finely-minced herbs may be strewn over it after browning. Time, two hours and a half. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Sufficient for four or five persons. (See also Liver, Fried.) Calf's Pluck.—Stuff the heart with a veal forcemeat to which a little bacon has beenCAN CAL ( 102 ) added, and fasten the liver and liglits socuroly round it. Put it before a moderate tiro, and basto it well whilo it is roasting. Wbon it is coolcod enough, put it on a hot dish witli melted butter, whieh has boon flavoured witli a gbiss of port and the juico of a lemon, round it. Time to bake, from two to throe hours. Pro- bable cost, lOd. per pound. Sufficient for six persons. Calf's Pluck (another way).—Stuff the heart as in the last recipe, and bake it in a moderate oven with a little boiled vermicelli laid over it. When it is sufficiently cooked, put it on a hot dish, slice and fry the liver, lights, and a few rashers of bacon, and place thorn round, and pour a good brown gravy over the whole. Time to bake, two hours, or ac- cording to size. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Sufficient for six persons. Calf's Sweetbreads.—Calf's sweet- breads should always be soaked for an hom- er two in cold water, which must be changed once or twice, then put into boiling water for about ten minutes, till they are firm and round but not hard; take them out and put into cold water again until they are wanted to be dressed. This should be done whether they are intended to be stewed, fried, roasted, baked, or cooked in any other way. Calf's Sweetbreads, Baked.—Pre- pare the sweetbreads as above. Diy them, dip them in egg and bread-crumbs, place two or three lumps of butter or nice beef dripping on and aroimd them, and bake them in a moderate oven for three-quarters of an hour, basting them frequently diu-ing the process. Serve them on a slice of toast, and pour a good brown gravy round them. Sufficient, two sweetbreads for three persons. Calf s Sweetbreads, Baked (another yray).—Prepare the sweetbreads as above. Take them from the cold water, wipe them dry, brush them over with egg, roll them in bread-crumbs, sprinkle a little butter over them, and bread- crumb them again. Put them with two ounces of dissolved butter in a baking-tin, and bake them in a quick oven. Baste them frequently tin done enough. Drain them, put them on a hot dish, and pour a good brown gravy round but not over them. Time to bake, from half to three quarters of an hour, till brightly browned. Probable cost, varying with the market. Suf- ficient, two sweetbreads for three persons. Calfs Sweetbreads, Stewed.—Put two sweetbreads, prepared as above, into a stewpan with some nicely-flavoiu-ed stock, and let them simmer gently for three-quarters of an hour or more. Take them out and place them on a hot dish. Draw the gravy from the fire for a minute or two, and add to it very gradually the yolk of an egg and four table- spoonfuls of cream. Put this over a gentle fire until the sauce thickens, but do not allow it to boil. Just before serving, squeeze into it the juico of a lemon. Sufficient for three persons. CalTs Tails.—Cut four calf's tails in pieces an inch and a half long, fry them in boUing fat till they are lightly browned, then stew thom in good gravy till they axe quite tender. Serve them with thick brown sauce round them, and some stewed mushrooms on a separate dish. When niunhrooiiis camiot bo obtained, put a table-spooniul of ketchup into the gravy. Time to stew, two houis. I'robablo cost, 9d. each. Sufficient for six persons. Cambridge Drink.—This agreeable and refreshing beverage is made by mixing equal quantities of home-brewed ale and soda-water. Ginger beer may bo used instead of sodjx- watcr. Cambridge Milk Punch. — Put the thin rind of luili a Hinull leiuon into a pint of new mdk, with twelve or fourteen good-sized lumps of sugar (if the Swiss milk is used, the sugar must be omitted). Let it boil very slowly to draw out the flavour of the lemon, then take it from the fire, remove the rind, and stir into it the yolk of an egg mixed with a table-spoon- ful of cold milk, two table-spoonfuls of brandy, and four of rum. Whisk these thoroughly together, and when the mixture is frothed, it is ready to serve. Time to prepare, half an hour. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of the brandy and rum. Sufficient for a pint and a half of pimch. Camomile Tea.—Pour a pint of boiUng water over five drachms of camomile flowers. Let them soak for ten minutes, and then strain. If taken warm, camomile tea acts as a gentle emetic. When taken cold it is often bene- ficial in cases of dyspepsia, hysteria, and head-ache. Camp Vinegar.—Chop small two cloves of garlic, and put them into a quart bottle with four tea-spoonfuls of soy, six of walnut ketchup, and half an oimce of cayenne. Fill the bottle with vinegar, and let it remain for three weeks; then strain and bottle it for use, being careful to seal the corks. Probable cost, 7d. per pint. Sufficient for a quart. Camp Yeast.—Boil four quarts of water with two ounces of hops and half a pound of flour for twenty minutes, stirring it all the time. Strain the liquid, and mix with it half a pound of sugar, and, when it is lukewarm, half a pint of fresh yeast. Put it in a warm place to ferment. Pour off the thin liquor from the top, and bottle it for use. Time to ferment, eight hoxurs. Probable cost, 3d. per pint. A cupful of yeast will be sufficient for fom* quartern loaves. Canadian Cakes.—Mix thoroughly one pound of the best flour, quarter of a pound of maizcna, three-quarters of a pound of sugar, and a pinch of salt. Bub in three-quarters of a pound of butter, and add eight eggs well beaten, half an oimce of candied peel chopped very small, a wine-glassful of brandy, and half a pound of cmrants. Beat these ingredients well together, and put the mixture into shallow tins, which must be lined with paper dipped in oil or butter, and bake in a good oven. Timo to bake, half an hotir. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for four cakes.CAN ( 103 ) CAN Canadian Cotobler—Half fill a soda- water glass with pounded ice, and add half a small lemon sliced, a dessert-spoonful of sugiu-, and two glasses of sherry. Mix well together, and dnnk through a straw. Time to make, a few minutes. Probable cost, 3d., e.\clusive of the sherry. Sufficient for one person. Canadian Pudding.—Mix six table- spoonfuls of maizcna or Indian corn-flour, one quart of milk, and the thin rind of half a lemon, in a saucepan, and let it boU, stirring all the time. Let it cool; then mix with it four eggs well beaten, and a little sugar, and pour it into a well-buttered mould which has been garnished with raisins placed in rows. Steam it for two hours, and serve with -wine sauce. Probable cost, Is. 3d. Sufficient for six persons. Canapes.—Take slices of the crumb of bread about half an inch thick, and stamp them out in rounds, ovals, or diamonds, then fry them in boiling oil or butter till they are lightly browned. These form the foimdation of the canapes. They maybe seasoned and garnished with anchovy, shiimp, or lobster paste, toasted cheese, hard-boUed eggs, cucumbers, beetroot, parsley, salad, ci-esses, celery, gherkins, prawns, craj'fish, or salmon. A combination of two or three things gives them a handsomer appear- ance. They should be dished on a napkin and garnished with parsley, &c. Thne to fry, ten minutes. Canard (aux Pois).—Take the remains of cold duck, and cut it iato neat joints. Lay these in a stewpan with half a pound of the breast of bacon, cut into pieces about an inch square, and about two ounces of butter. When lightly browned, cover the meat with nicely-flavoured stock, which must be thickened with a spoonful of flour, and add a bunch of parsley, two or three green onions, pepper and siilt to taste, and a small piece of sugar. Let these simmer gently for twenty minutes, add one quart of freshly- gathered young green peas, which have been thoroughly washed in cold water, and siromer again untU the peas are sufficiently cooked. Skim the fat from the gravy, and serve the peas ia the middle, the pieces of duck round them, and the gravy in a tureen. Time, one hour. Probable cost, about Is. 6d., exclusive of the cold duck. Sufficient for four or five persons. Canard Farci.—Bone a duck, and fill it with a forcemeat made with three large onions boiled and chopped, three small apples, finely minced, a breakfast-cupful of bread-crumbs, a table-spoonful of sage, a tea-spoonful each of mustard, sugar, and salt, as much popper and powdered mace as will stand on a sixpence, and a dessert-spoonful of lemon-juice. Secure it firmly. Tie it in a cloth, and stew it gently until sufficiently cooked in some good stock. Serve it with green peas or mashed turnips. Time to stew, one hour. Probable cost, from 28. to 3s. each. Sufficient for three persons. Canary Cream.—Put a pint of milk into a saucepan, with a little sugar, and the grated rind of half a lemon. When boiling, pour it upon the beaten yolks of three eggs. Return it to the stewpan, and stir it over a slow fire till the eggs thicken, and be very careful that it does not curdle. When cool, stir in a small glass of sherry or brandy to flavour it, and serve in custard glasses. Time, twenty minutes. I Probable cost, 7d., exclusive of the wine. Suf- ficient for a dozen small glasses. Cannelon (a la Pran9aise).—Mince a pound of underdxessed beef and half a pound of bacon, and mix them well together, season with a little pepper, salt, and nutmeg, a tea- spoonful of chopped parsley, and the same of marjoram and thyme. Bind all together with beaten egg, form the mince into a roll, tie some white oiled paper round it to keep it in shape., and bake it in a moderate oven. When suffi- ciently cooked, take ofit the paper, put the roll in a dish, and pour good brown gravy round it. Time to bake, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, 3d., exclusive of the cold meat. Cannelons (see Beef Cannelons). Cannelons (a la Poulette).—Take the re- mains of cold chicken and half the quantity of cold ham; mince and mix them thoroughly with a little good white sauce. Roll out some good light paste about a quarter of an inch in thickness, cut it into pieces two inches long and one inch wide. Place a little of the mix- ture on half of these pieces, and with the others cover each one; press the edges, and round them. Fry them in hot fat. Drain, and serve on a napkin. Time to fry, a minute or two, till they are Hghtly browned. Probable cost, ^d. each, exclusive of the cold meat. Cannelons, G-lazed—Cannelons may bo baked instead of fried. They are made exactly in the same way, excepting that just before they are sent to the oven they must be brushed over lightly with a paste brush which has been dipped into a well-beaten egg. Time, ten minutes. Sufficient, one pound of puff paste for a large dish. Cannelons of Brioche Paste.—Brioche paste may be substituted for puff paste in making cannelons. The paste must be rolled very thia, and they should be served hot and dry. Cannelons, or Pried Puffs.—Make some fine puff paste {see Puif Paste). Roll it very thin, and cut it into pieces two inches wide and six inches long. Place a tea-spoonful of jam on each piece, and roll it over twice. Press the edges (which mutt bo l)r\!i-:l:( il with CANNELONS. water or the white of egg), and fry the canne- lons ia hot fat. When they begin to brown,CAP ( 104 ) CAN draw them to tho side of tho firo, or the pastry- will bo Hullicioiitly browned before it ifl cooked thi-ough. Drain thoni well by laying a i)ioce of blotting paper on a dish before tho fire, and placing them on it for a minute or two. Ai-- range them in a pile on a napkin. They may be made with any sort of jam, or with fresh fruit. Time to fry, ton minutes. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient, one pound of puff paste for a large dish. Canterbury Puddings. — Melt two ounces of butter, then stir into it gradually two well-beaten eggs. Add two ounces of sugar, two ounces of flour, and a little lemon-rind. At the last moment stir in a pinch of baking powder. Half fill buttered cups with the batter, and bake in a well-heated oven. Serve on a dish with wine sauce poured round. Time to bake, about twenty minutes. Capers.—The bottle in which capers are kept should never be left without tho cork. They should also be kept covered with the liquor, or they will spoil, and on this accoimt it is better to use a spoonful of white vinegar, in- stead of the liquor, in making sauce. The flavour cannot be fully extracted unless the capers are bruised. Probable cost, Is. per pint bottle. Caper Sauce, a Substitute for.— Pickled gherkins, pickled nasturtium pods, French beans, or green peas, cut small like capers, may be used as a substitute for them. The nas- turtium pods are by many persons considered preferable. When none of these are at hand, parsley may be boiled slowly to take away its greenness, and cut up into pieces, not chopped small. Proceed in the same way as with capers. Time, one or two minutes to simmer. Probable cost, the same as for capers; parsley will be cheaper. Sufficient, a pint of sauce for a leg of mutton. Caper Sauce for Boiled Mutton.— Take about half a pint of good melted butter, and stir into it one table-spoonful and a half of chopped capers and two tea-spoonfuls of vinegar. Stir the sauce over the fire, simmering it very gently for about a minute. Serve in a sauce tureen. Probable cost, 6d. for this quantity. Sufficient for three or four persons. Caper Sauce for rish. — Stir three dessert-spoonfuls of chopped capers and one dessert-spoonful of vinegar into half a pint of melted butter; put it on a gentle fire, and when the sauce is simmering, stir in a dessert-spoon- ful either of the essence of anchovy, mushroom or walnut ketchup, and season rather, highly with cayenne. Time, two minutes to simmer. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for two pounds of fish. Capillaire. — Put two ounces of freshly- gathered maidenhair [Adiantiim capillus ve- neris) into a jug, and pour over it sufficient boiling water to cover it. Let it stand on the hob or hearth, to infuse like tea, for some hours; then strain it, and put it into a clear syrup made by boiling together three pounds of sugar and three pints of water ; add two table-spoon- fuls of orange-flower water, and stir it over the fire for a few minutes. Run the liquid tlirough a jelly-bag till it is quite clear, and when cold bottle it for use. Cork it secuiely, and seal th( corks. Time to infuse tho lorn, ton hours. Probable cost, 8d. per quart, exclusive of the maidenhair. It niakos an excellent and agieo- ablo fiavoui-ing for all kinds of beverages. Capillaire (anotherway).—Put two ounces of American capiUairo into a pmt of boiling water, add a pound of sugar, and wlien it lias stood some time, tho white of an egg, and boil it to a thick syrup. Strain it, and when it is cold, flavour it with a table-spoonful of oi-ange- flower water. Bottle it and seal the corks. Time to infuse, one hour and a half. Probable cost, 5d. per pint, exclusive of tho capillaire. Capillaire, Imitation.—Mix wella quart of water with five pounds of sugar, two eggs beaten, and the shells put in. Boil all together, and skim the liquid thoroughly ; strain thi-ough a jelly-bag, and flavour it with two table- spoonfuls of orange-flower water. Time to boU, twenty minutes. Probable cost, 28.4d. for this quantity. Capillaire in Punch.—A small bottle of capillaire is a great improvement to a bowl of punch ; or a pleasant summer drink may be made by putting a wine-glassful into a tumbler, ■with the juice of half a lemon, and filling up with water. Capon, Th.e.—Capons, to be tender, ought to be killed a day or two before they are di-essed, and in cold weather, more than that time may be allowed to intervene between killing and cooking. When the feathers can be easily pulled out, the bird is ready for the spit. They should be managed precisely in the same way as turkeys, and the same sauces may be sent to table with them. They may be had all the year, but are cheapest about October and November, and largest at Christmas. Capon, Boiled.—Draw and truss a fine capon, and tie a sheet of oiled or buttered paper over it. Lay it in a saucepan, with sufficient water or stock to cover it, and put with it an onion, a carrot, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a little salt. Stew it gently, and when done, take it up, and lay roimd the dish on which it is served four or five small cauliflowers. Pour a little bechamel over it. Time to boU, one hour. Probable cost, from 2s. 6d. to 4s. Sufficient for four or five persons. Capon, Roast.—Truss a capon firmly for roasting. Fasten some oUed paper over the breast, and roast it before a good fire. T\'lien sufficiently cooked, take it down, place it on a hot dish with watercresses round it. Send some good gravy to table with it. Time, to roast, one hour. Probable cost, from 2s. 6d. to 4s. Suffi- cient for four or five persons. Capon, Roasted with Cream Stuf- fing.—Truss a capon for roasting. Boil the liver, and mince it as finely as possible. Pour a little cream over a cupful of finely-grated bread-crumbs. Let them soak for half an hour. Shred fijaely four ounces of suet, a tea-spoonful( 106 ) CAP CAP of scalded pai-slov, and four or five button muslu-ooms cut small and fried. Mix these weU together with a little pepper and salt, and add the yolks of two eggs. Stuff the capon with the mixtui-e, and roast it before a clear fire. Serve with sauce flavoured with chopped i?herkins. Time to roast, one houi-. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. to 4s. Sufficient for four or five persons. Capon, Roasted with Truffles.— Clean, wash, and peel some truffles, and cut them in slices about a quarter of an inch thick; fry them in butter, and season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Put them inside the capon, fasten some buttered paper over it, and roast it before a clear fire. This dish is frequently served without any sauce, but, if liked, a little may be sent to table with it made of good melted butter, flavoured with a quarter pf a pound of truffles, peeled, and pounded in a mortar, with half an ounce of butter, and pressed thi'ough a sieve. Time to roast, one houi- or more. Sufficient for four or five persons. Probable cost, from 2s. 6d. to 4s. each. Capon, Stewed.—Blanch and boil, as if for cui-ry, three-quarters of a pound of Patna rice. While it is cooking, fry three sliced onions in three table-spoonfuls of butter or di-ipping, and with them a fine capon cut into joints. When fried, put the fowl and the onions into a stewpan, with sufficient nicely-flavoured stock to cover them, and let them stew gently until tender. Mix a little of the gravy with the rice, season it, then spread it on a dish, and lay the stewed capon upon it. Thicken the gravy, and pour a little of it upon the dish, and send the rest to table in a tureen. Time to stew, about an hour. Probable cost, from 2s. 6d. to 48. Sufficient for four or five persons. Capon, Stewed (a la Fran^aise).—Draw, and truss for boiling, a fine capon. Rub it over with a little lemon-juice, and put it into a stew- pan -with some slices of bacon under and over it. Cover it with some nicely-flavoured stock, salted and peppered, and additionally flavoured with an onion stuck with three or four cloves. Let it stew gently for an hour, then take it up, strain the gravj^j and thicken it with a little flour and butter, and add a glass of white wine. Pour the gravy round the dish, and serve. Sufficient for five or six persons. Probable cost, from 2s. 6d. to 4s. Capon, Stuffed and Roasted.—Shred four ounces of suet very finely, and mix with it half the quantity of ham, half a poimd of bread- crumbs, a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, and the same of marjoram and thyme, two or three grains of cayenne, a little salt and pounded mace, and an inch of lemon-rind finely chopped. When these are thoroughly mixed, bind them together with two eggs, well beaten. StufE the capon with this forcemeat, cover it with but- tered paper, and roast it. Baste it frequently. Serve it with some good brown gravy and bread-sauce in a tureen. Time to roast, one hour. Probable cost, from 28. 6d. to 4s. Suffi- cient for four or five persons. Capon, Stuffed with Chestnuts- Pare a dozen largo sound chestnuts, and blanch them like almonds. Stew them very gently for twenty minutes. Drain and pound thejp.; then mix with them the liver of the capon boiled and finely minced, two table-spoonfuls of fine bread- crumbs, a piece of fresh butter the size of a small egg, half a tea-spoonful of lemon-rind, a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, a salt-spoon- ful of salt and the same of pepper, and a little nutmeg. Bind the forcemeat together with the yolks of two eggs. Fill the capon with this mixture, cover it with oiled paper, and roast it before a good fire. When it is sufliciently cooked, brush it over with beaten egg, dredge fine bread-crumbs over it, and brown it. Serve with half a pint of good melted butter, to which has been added three chopped gherkins. Probable cost, 28. 6d. to 48. each. Time to roast, one hour. Sufficient for four or five persons. Capon, To Truss for Boiling—Pick the capon very clean; singe it if necessary. Cut off the neck and the claws, and di'aw the bird, being very careful not to break the gall- bladder, as it would make anything that it touched very bitter. Preser^^e the liver and the gizzard. Fasten back the skin of the neck with a skewer. Press the feet down closely, with the fingers loosen the top skin of the legs, and put the legs under. Put the liver and the gizzard in the pinions, then pass a skewer through the first joint of the wing, the.middle of the leg, and through the body, and fasten the wing and the leg on the other side with the same skewer. Turn the wings over the back, fasten a string over the legs and the skewer to keep everything in its proper place. Make a little slit in the apron of the fowl, and put the parson's nose through it. Capon, To Truss for Roasting.—Cut off the claws and the first joint of the wings, and make a slit at the back of the neck just large enough to admit of the bird being dravm. Preserve the liver, and the gizzard, and be care- ful not to break the gall-bladder. Turn the wings under, bring the legs close, twist the head round with the bill to the breast, and pass a strong skewer through the wing, the middle of the leg, the liver and gizzard, the body, th» head, and the wing and leg on the other side. Tie the legs close to the apron with som-i strong thread. Truss the bird as firmly as pos- sible, and place a piece of oiled paper over the breast before roasting. When it is intended to stuff the capon, the head may be cut right off, and the skin of the neck skewered over. Capsicum, Essence of.—To one pint of brandy or rectified spirits of wine add one ounce of the best cayenne pepper. Let it infuse for three weeks, then pour off the clear liquid, and bottle for use. It is very convenient to have this essence for the flavouring of sauces, &c., as the taste is equally and quickly diffused by stirring a little -with some boiling sauce. Cayenne varies so much in strength, that the quantity to be put with each pint of sauce or gravy must be regulated by the taste of the cook. Capsicums, Pickled.—Capsicums may be pickled either green or red. They are finest and ripest in September and October-CAP ( loe ) CAB If thoy can bo obtained fi-om the garden it is best to-gather the pods with the stalkH befoio thoy aro rod. Put the Ciipsicunis into a jar. Boil sufHciont vinegar to cover them, allowing a hwipod toa-spoonful of salt. and half an ounce of powdered mace, to every quart of vinegar. Pour this, while hot, upon tlio jjods, and wh(!n cold, tie down closely with a bladder. Thoy will bo fit for use in five or six weeks. Pro- bable cost, 4s. Gd. to 6s. per hundi-od. Captain's Biscuits.—Put a pinch of salt with as much Hour as may be required, and make it into a paste with a littlo new miUi. Knead it thoroughly till it is finn and stiff, then divide it into balls, and form into cakes about a quarter of an inch in thiclmoss. Prick >hem with a fork, and bake for about fifteen minutes. Carachi.—Pound a head of garlic, and put it into a jar with thi-ee table-spoonfuls each of, wal- nut pickle, mushroom ketchup, and soy, and two tea-spoonfuls of cayenne pepper, two tea-spoon- fuls of essence of anchovies, and one of pounded mace. Pour on these one pint of fresh vinegar ; let them remain in the liquid two or three days, then strain, and bottle it for use. Sufficient for one pint and a half. Probable cost. Is. 6d. per pint. Caramel, or Biiriit Sugar. —Put a quarter of a poimd of finely-sifted sugar into a preserving-pan, place it on a moderate fire, and stir it with a wooden spoon till it becomes liquid; then stir it constantly until it is a dark brown. Add one pint of cold water. Draw it to the side of the fire, and let it simmer very gently for a quarter of an hour longer. Strain, and bottle for use. If the fire is too fierce, the caramel will be discoloured. This browning should be added to the sauce the last thing. Time, forty minutes. Probable cost, 2^d. per pint. When wanted, pour a few drops at a time into the tureen until the colour is what is required. Caramel, or Sugar for Sweets, &c. —Put one pound of sugar into a preserving- pan with half a pint of cold water. Let it stand three or four minutes, then place it on the fire, and let it boU, skimming and stirring it con- stantly. It will be first a syrup, then begin to bubble and look white, when, if it is intended for caramel, it must have the juice of a lemon stirred in with it, or it will turn to sugar again. Dip a stick into it, then plunge it into cold water, and when the sugar which drops from the stick snaps like glass, it is ready. It must be poured out instantly. If it is to be used for sugar spinning, the pan must be placed in another of cold water. Have the moulds ready oiled, and throw the sugar over in threads "with a fork or spoon. .'• Caraway Biscuits.—Rub a quarter of a pound of butter into a poimd of flour, then add a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar, three eggs well beaten, and a few caraway seeds. Plaice the mixture into a stiff paste, adding a little water if neqessary. Roll it about a quarter of an inch thick, stamp it out in rounds, and prick these with a fork. Plp,ce the biscuits on floured tins, or on a wire frame, and bake them in a quick oven about ten minutoe. Pro- liable cost, 8d. per pound. Caraway, Brandy. —Dissolve half a pound of linuly-Kifl(;d gmger in one quart of lirandy, and sprinkle on the top one ounce of whole cjiraway seeds. Let them remain for ten days in the jar, then strain the liquid and bottle it for use. Tliis makes an excellent stomachic. Probable cost, 3d. jjcr pint, exclusive of the brandy. Cardoons.—Cardoons have long been em- ployed in I'rcnch cookery, and are now a good deal cultivated in England, but they require such rich seasoning that they are scarcely fit for domestic cookery. The stalks of the inner leaves are the parts which arc eaten. They should be cut into strips about four inches long, and the prickles removed with a flannel. They are generally blanched for use. Cardoons, Boiled.—Choose a few heads of sound white cardoons. Cut them into pieces about six inches long, remove the prickles, and blanch them in boiling water for a quarter of an hour. Scrape off the skin and tie them in bundles. Cover them with nicely-flavoured stock, and boil till tender. Drain'them, and serve on toast, with plenty of good melted butter. Sufficient, five or six heads for a dish. Cardoons, Pried.—Proceed as above, and when the cardoons are tender, melt a little butter in a pan, drain the cardoons, dredge a little flour over, and fry them till they are nicely browned. Send good melted butter to table with them. Time to fry, ten minutes. Sufficient, five or six heads for a dish. Cardoons, Stewed.—Prepare the car- doons as above. Then put them into a stewpan and cover with a little good gravy, and stew very gently till tender. When sufficiently cooked, thicken the gravy with a little flour and butter, season with cayenne and salt, and add a glass of sherry. Put the cardoons on a dish, and pour the gravy over them. Sufficient, five or six for a dish. Carp.—Carp is a pond rather than a river fish, and requires a thoroughly good sauce to be served with it. It is not often offered for sale, but is very useful for families residing in the country, as it may frequently be obtained when no other fish can be. The best carp are those of a medium size. They are better to be kept a day before they are used. From May to November they are not good for food. The head is con- sidered the best part. Owing to their habit of burying themselves in mud, the flesh of these fish has often a disagreeable muddy taste; in cleaning them, therefore, care should be taken to remove the gills, as they are always muddy, to rub a little salt down the back-bone, and to lay them in strong salt and water for a couple of hours; then wash them in clear spring water. A good plan also is to put a piece of the crumb of bread with the fish, and remove it before it is served. There is a small species of this fish called the Crucian carp which is good for nothing. Carp, Baked.—Clean and scale a carp. Make a forcemeat with eight oysters, bearded( 107 ) CAB CAR and chopped, threo boned ancliovies, a tea- spoonful of finely-chopped parsley, half a shallot chopped small, a pinch of Kilt, a quarter of a salt-spoonful of cayenne, a pinch of powdered allspice, and two table - spoonfuls of tinely-grated bread-crumbs. Put these in a saucepan with a piece of butter the size of an egg, stir all weU together with the yolk of an egg till it is stifi and smooth, then fill the fish, sew it up to prevent the forcemeat escaping, brush it over with beaten egg, and strew bread- crumbs upon it. Pour oiled butter over it, cover it with stock, and bake for one hour. Place the carp on a hot dish, and thicken the gravy in which it was baked with a little flour and butter, season it with cayenne, a tea- spoonful of mustard, and a table-spoonful of Worcester sauce, and the last thing, squeeze in the juice of a lemon. Garnish with lemon and parsley, and serve the sauce in a tureen. Suffi- cient for two persons. Carp, Saked (another way).—Wash, scale, and draw the fish. Squeeze over it the juice of two lemons, and let it remain in this for an hour, tm-ning it at the end of half an hour. Put it into a dish, pour upon it three ounces of oiled butter, and strew over it two minced shallots. Cover it with oUed writing-paper, and bake it gently, basting it frequently. When it is nearly baked, melt three ounces of butter in a stewpan, and stii- smoothlj'- into it a table- spoonful of flour and a cupful of boiling water, a small salt-spoonful of salt, and a little cayenne. Let the sauce boil; then add to it gradually haK a pint of new milk or cream, and, at the last moment, draw it from the fire and add the juice of a lemon. Mince finely four large gherkins, stir them into the sauce, and poiir it over the fish. Time to bake, one hour. Sufficient for two persons. Carp, Boiled.—Wash, scale, and draw a carp, preserving the liver and roe. Put it into boiling salt and water, allowing a table-spoon- ful of salt to two quarts of water, and let it boil gently, tiU it is ready. Make a sauce with haH a pint of the liquor in which the fish was boiled, a cupful of port, two shallots finely minced, two boned anchovies, a table-spoonful of soy, gait and cayenne. Let these boil gently tiU the anchovies are dissolved, then thicken the sauce with flour and butter, and add the liver finely minced. Garnish with the roe fried, and sUces of lemon. Time to boil, from twenty to thirty minutes. Sufficient for two persons. Carp, Boiled (au bleu). — Clean and draw the carp. Cut it into convenient-sized pieces, put it_ in the fish-kettle with a large onion stuck with four cloves, some salt, pepper, and scraped horse-radish, and two bay-leaves! Pour over it equal quantities of boiling vinegarj port, and water, allowing sufficient liquid only to cover the fish. Let it boil gently until sufficiently cooked, skim it well, let it get cold in the liquor, and serve on a napkin. Time to boil, from twenty to thirty minutes. Sufficient for two persons. Carp (en Matelote). —Wash and prepare a carp, and if obtainable, an eel, and cut them mto pieces about an inch and a half long. Put three ounces of butter into a saucepan, let it melt, then fry in it one dozen small onions. Dredge in a table-spoonful of flour, and stir in smoothly and very gradually a cupful of red wine, and the same of broth. Add salt and cayenne, two bay-leaves, a bunch of savoury herbs, and a clove of garlic. Let all simmer gently for a few minutes, then put in the pieces of eel, and, ten minutes afterwards, the ca:-p, with the roe. Simmer for a quarter of an hour more. Remove the herbs and the garlic, and pour the sauce hot over the fish. Time, three- quarters of an hour. Probable cost of the eel, 6d. per pound. Sufficient for four or five persons. Carp, Fried.—Clean and empty the fish, dry it well with a cloth, split it open and lay it flat, being careful to remove the gall-stone, which will be found in the head, or it may give a bitterness to the dish. Dredge it well with flour, and sprinkle salt and cayenne over it, then fry it in plenty of hot butter or dripping tiU. it is lightly browned. . Lay it on some blot- ting paper to drain oflP the fat. Garnish with fried sippets, and the roes, also fried. Serve with anchovy sauce. Time, about twenty minutes. Sufficient for two persons. Carp, Fried (another way). — Cut a carp into convenient-sized pieces or fillets; sprinkle over them a little salt, pepper, pounded mace, two small onions finely minced, a tea- spoonful of pai'sley, and one of lemon and thyme. Put them into a stewpan, and squeeze the juice of two lemons over them. Place the carp on a gentle fire, and partly cook it, moving it about constantl}', until it has imbibed the flavouring. Take it out, drain it, dredge flour over it, and fry in hot lard or butter. Squeeze over it the juice of a lemon. Time, about forty minutes. Carp, Grilled.—^Scale, gut, and clean the carp. Rub them over with oil, wrap them in well-oiled writing paper, and broil. Serve with sorrel round them, and a little sauce in a dish. They are more tasty if some finely- minced herbs are put inside the paper, which may be either taken o& or left on. A little lemon-juice should be squeezed over them. Grill for about a quarter of an hour. Carp Pie.—Line the edges of a pie-dish with a good light crust. Stuff a medium-sized carp with oyster forcemeat, sew it up to prevent this escaping, and lay it in the middle of the dish. Put roimd it pieces of eel about an inch and a half in length, which have been already partly cooked. Take three-quarters of a pint of the liquor in which the eel was stewed, put with it a cupful of port, a little sfilt and cayenne, an onion stuck with four gloves, and a blade of mace. Let these simmer gently until they are reduced to half a pint of gravy, which may be thickened with a little flour and butter. Pour this over the fish, cover with crust, and bake in a moderate oven for one hour. Suffi- cient for four or five persons. Carp Roe.—Put the roes of three or foui- carp into a stewpan, strew a little salt over them, and cover with vinegar. Boil them f6r..toa or fifteen minutes, then chop tliem up wiUi( 108 ) CAR CAE half thoir bulk in 'bread.crumlts, tho finoly- clioppod liiul of a lomon, a littlo salt and luiyoniui, and a littlo ft-rated nutmog. Mako thoni up into cakos, and bako in a Dutch ovon witli a littlo butter, till thoy aro hot. Time to bako, a fow minutcH. Carp Roe, Fricasseed.—Take (ivo or BIX roes, strew over them a littlo salt and pepiier, and two tablo-spoonfula of finoly- chopped parsley. Molt three ounces of butt(;r in a stowpan, and put in the roes with a dozen small mushrooms, tl\e juice of a small lomon, and a bundle of sweet herbs. Let them stow gently for ton minutes, then add a wine-glass of white wine, and a lump of butter tho size of an egg rolled in flour. Let these simmer for ten minutes more, draw tho pan from tho fire for a minute, and add half a cupful of cream or new milk. Serve hot, with the sauce poured over the roes. Time, half an horn-. Sufficient for two or three persons. Carp, Sauce for.— Dissolve about one ounce of butter in a saucepan, and stir into it very smoothly a dessert-spoonful of flour, a little gravy, a cupful of good cream, and two anchovies chopped finely. Let it boil, stir it well, then add a table-spoonful of soy, season ■with salt, and, just before serving, squeeze the juice of a lemon into the sauce. Carp, Stewed.—Cleanse three or four fiah thoroughly. "Wash them well with a little vinegar in the water to draw out the blood. Split the fish, and cut them into good-sized pieces. Rub them well with a little salt, pepper, and powdered mace. Put them into a stewpan with sufficient water to cover them, a dessert - spoonful of fijiely - chopped parsley, a cupful of white wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, an onion stuck with two cloves, and a stick of horse-radish. Let them simmer gently for an houi* or more. Take out the slices of fish, and strain the gravy. Add to it a cupful of cream or new milk, let it boil np, then di'aw it from tho fire for a minute, or two, and add gradually the yolks of two eggs mixed with a little cream. Pour the boiling sauce over the slices of carp, and make a promi- nent display of the roe. Carp, Stewed (another way).—Cleanse a carp thoroughly, and cut it into slices, then put it into a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of bacon and a quarter of a pound of veal cut into sL'ces, four small onions stuck with four cloves, two carrots, a sprig of thyme, a bunch of parsley, half a dozen chives, and, if liked, half a clove of garlic. The vegetables must be sliced and the herbs chopped. Pour a glass- ful of white wine over the carji, and let it simmer for two or three minutes, then add equal parts of white wine and stock, sufficient to cover the fish and vegetables. Let them simmer gently for an hour, thicken tho sauce with a little flour and butter, add popper, salt, and nutmeg, and boil it, stirring continually, until it is a proper consistency. Time to prepare, one hour and a half. Sufficient for one or two persons. Carp, Stewed (another way). —Clean thoroughly two carp. Save tho roes, and fry tho fish lightly in hot Lird, lay them in a stew- pan, and cover with a mixture composed equallv ot wine and stock. Stew gently until suffi- ciently cooked, then strain the gmvy, add salt and popper, a table-spoonful of ketchup, the juico of half a lomon, and a small piece of butter rolled in flour. Poui- the sauce over the fish, and garnish with fried roes and toasted Bippets. Time to stew, according to size. Carrier Sauce.—Pour a breakfast-cupful of good brown gravy over a tablospoonful of finely-minced shallots. Add a little salt and cayenne, and a table-spoonful of chili vinegar. Simmer gently for about thirty minutes, till the shallots are sufficiently cooked, then strain the sauce, and serve with mutton. Probable cost, 6d. or 8d. _ Carrot. — This vegetable is ahnost inva- riably sent to table with boiled beef. When the cari'ots are young, they should be washed and brushed, not scraped, before cooking— and old carrots also are better prepared in this way—then rubbed with a clean coarse cloth after boiling. Yoimg carrots need to be cooked about half an hour, and fully-grown ones from one hour and a half to two hours. The red is the best part. In order to ascertain if the root is sufficiently cooked, stick a fork into it. When they feel soft they are ready for serving. They are excellent for fiavouring, and contain a great amount of nourishment. Carrot Cheesecakes.—Boil a moderate- sized carrot until tender. Pound it in a mortar, and pass the pulp through a fine hair sieve. Mix with it an ounce of oiled butter, two des- sert-spoonfuls of washed currants, two table- spoonfuls of sugar, half a nutmeg grated, a table-spoonful of fresh curd, and a well-beaten egg. Line some patty-pans with good puff paste, half fill them with the mixture, and bake in a good oven for twenty minutes. Probable cost, about Id. each. Carrot Fritters. — Boil a large carrot until it is quite tender. Beat it to a pulp, pass it through a sieve, and mix with it two table-spoonfuls of cream, the same of finely- grated bread-crumbs, and two eggs well beaten. Fry the mixture in fritters in hot lard or drip- ping, and serve them with good brown aauce. Sufficient for two persons. Carrot Jam (to imitate Apricot Jam).— Choose young, deep-coloured carrots; wash and scrape them, then boil them imtil they are quite tender. Rub them through a colander, then through a sieve, and to every pound of pulji allow one pound of sifted white sugar, half a dozen hitter almonds chopped small, and the grated lind and juico of a lemon. Put these ingredients into a preserving-pan, and let them boil for a few minutes, stiiTing them constantly, and removing the scum as it rises. Wlien cold, add a wine-glassful of brandy for every pound of pulp. Put the jam into jars, and tie it up carefully. With the addition of the brandy, it will keep for some time. Time, six or eight minutes to boil aU together. Carrot Pie.—This is a favourite dish with vegetarians. Wash and slice tho carrots, andf 109 ) CAB CAB parboil them. Put them into a dish edged with a Kght crust. Add pepper and salt, and pour a little water over them. Cover them with crust, and bake the pie in a moderate oven. Time to bake, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost of carrots, 6d. or 8d. per bunch. Sufficient, a moderate-sized pie for six persons. Carrot Pudding, Baked or Boiled. —Boil some large carrots till they are tender, pass them through a sieve, and mix one pound of the pulp with half a pound of finely-grated bread-crumbs, six ounces of finely-shred suet, and a quarter of a pound each of stoned raisins, washed currants, and brown sugar. Mix these ingredients well together, and add a little grated nutmeg, a large pinch of salt, and three eggs well beaten, together with as much new milk as will make a thick batter. If baked, put the mixture into a buttered pie-dish, and bake it in a moderate oven; if boiled, put it in a well- oiled mould, tie it in a cloth, and boil or steam it. Serve with sweet sauce. Time to bake, one hour and a half; to boil, three hours. Sufficient for six persons. Probable cost, Is. 4d. Carrot Sauce.—Take half a pint of good melted butter. Bring it to a boil, then stir into it two table-spoonfuls of mashed carrots, and a little salt and pepper. Time, ten minutes. Probable cost, 4d. Sufficient for two pounds of stewed cutlets. Carrot Soup.—Put any bones that you may have into three quarts of stock or water, with three turnips, three onions, a head of celery, or half a tea-spoonful of celery seeds, two bay-leaves, and the red part of ten good- sized carrots, cut off in slices. Stew the vege- tables till tender, then take out the carrots, pound them in a mortar, mix with them a little of the liquor, and pass them through a coarse sieve. Strain the rest of the liquid, and return it to the saiicepan; put with it the pulped carrots, and let it boil till it is as thick as pea- soup. Season with pepper and salt, and serve. Time, four hours. Probable cost, 3d. per quart. Sufficient for six persons. Carrot Soup (another way).—Put four ounces of fresh butter into a saucepan, allow it to melt, then put into it a large onion cut into thin slices, half a poimd of lean ham, also sliced, and the red part of twelve carrots grated. Let these remain over a moderate fire till they are nicely coloured, stirring them occasionally to prevent them burning. When ready, add two quarts of nicely-flavoured stock. Simmer the soup for two hours. Remove the ham, Rtrain^ the soup, and pass the carrot through a fine_ sieve, then return it to the soup; boil it again, season it with cayenne and salt, and serve. Time, three hours. Probable cost, 5d. per pint. Sufficient for six or eight pjrsons. Carrot Soup (maigre).—Take two large onions, with eight large carrots (which have been washed and scraped, the red part cut into thin_ slices and the yellow part left out), one turnip, two heads of celery, or one tea-spoonful of celery seed, and six ounces of the crumb of bread. Put three quarts of water into a isaucepan, with a piece of soda the size of a pea. Let this boil; then put in the above ingredients, with a little cayenne pepper, salt^ and mace. When they are soft, take out the vegetables and rub them through a coarse sieve; replace them, and add to the soup, when boiling, a large breakfast-cupful of cream or new milk. The soup should bo as thick as cream. Time, two and a half hours. Probable cost, IJd. per pint. Sufficient for six persons. Carrots (a la Flamande).—Take a bunch of young carrots, which alone are suitable, wash them well, cut off the heads and points, and place them in boiling water for five minutes. Take them out, drain, rub off the skin with a coarse cloth, cut them into very thin slices, and put them into a saucepan with a cupful of water, a little salt and pepper, and a piece of butter the size of a small egg. Cover them closely, and simmer gently for twenty minutes, shaking the pan occasionally in order that they may be equally cooked. Mix the yolks of two eggs with a cupful of cream, and a dessei-t-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley. Draw the pan from the fire for a couple of minutes, taking off the cover, put a table-spoonful or two of the liquid with the eggs and cream, then pour the whole gradually into the saucepan. Stir the sauce until it thickens, and serve the carrots with the sauce poured over them. Time to stew the carrots, half an hour. Probable cost, 8d. per bvmch. Sufficient for four or five persons. Carrots (a la Flamande), another way.— Boil whole, six large carrots until they are quite tender; then stamp them out in stars, wheels, dice, or any other shape, and stew them in a little good melted butter with five small onions, a table-spoonful of finely-chopped pars- ley, and a little salt and pepi^er. Serve the carrots with the sauce poured over them. Time to boil, one hour and a half. Sufficient, six large carrots for eight persons. Carrots (a, la Peine).—Choose some fine large carrots and cut them into pieces about three inches long; make them flat at one end and narrow and roimd at the other, so as to give them the form of cones. Boil them until nearly tender, then place them upright in a saucepan with some good gravy, leaving about an inch of the tops uncovered to prevent their being broken. Boil them until they are sufficiently cooked, take them out, and arrange them in a dish. Thicken the gravy with a little brown thicken- ing, add a pinch of salt and a small piece of sugar to it, and pour it over them. Time, one hour and a half. Carrots, Boiled.—Wash and prepare the carrots. If they are verj- large they shoiild be halved and sliced. Throw them into plenty of boiling water with salt in it, keep them boiling, and when a fork can be easily pushed into them they are ready. They may be boiled in the same saucepan with beef, and a few should be placed round the dish and the rest sent to table in a tiu-een. Melted butter generally accom- panies them. Many persons are fond of cold carrots with cold beef. They may be easily warmed up by covering them closely and putting the dish in which they are placed into boiling water. Time, young carrots, half an hour; fully-grown, from one and a half to two hours. Sufficient, four large carrots for six persons.CAR ( 110 ) GAS Carrots, Fried.—Wusli and partly boil tho carrots wholo; cut thciu into tliin slicoH, dip thoin in egg and iinoly-giiitcd broad-crumbs, and fry in hot butter or lard. iSorvo tlioni piled high on a dish. Cold carrots may bo warmed up this way. Time to fiy, ton minutes. Hufli- ciont, six carrots for five persons. Carrots in their own Gravy.—Wasli, scrape, and slice the carrots. Put them into boiling salt and water, only just enough to cover them, and when they are tender let them boil fast till only two or three spoonfuls of tho liquid remains. Put witli the gravy a piece of brown thickening tho size of a nut. Shako the saucepan till the gravy is thickened, and serve very hot. Time, one hour and a half. Suffi- cient, six largo carrots for five persons. Ca-rrots, Mashed.—Scrape off all the skin from some largo carrots, and boil them till tender ; mash them smoothly, and return them to tho saucepan, beat thoroughly for a few minutes, adding a small piece of butter and a little salt and pepper. Two or three spoon- fuls of gravy or a cupful of milk may be added, but in either case let the vegetables remain over the fire, stirring them constantly till they are nearly dry. Time, one Tiour and a half to boil; ten minutes to dry. Sufficient, six large carrots for five persons. Carrots, Red Puree of.—Wash and scrape some fine large carrots. Cut the red part oil in thin slices, and boil these for about a quarter of an hour. Take them out, drain, and put them into a saucepan with an onion stuck with two cloves, a little salt and pepper, a small piece of butter, and just enough stock to cover them. Let them boil gently tUl tender, then pass them through a coarse sieve. Place tho pulp in a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of butter, a little grated nutmeg, a small piece of sugar, and a cupful of stock, and stir imtil it is thick. The puree may be served with stewed mutton cutlets round it. Time, two hours and a half. Sufficient, eight large carrots for two pounds of cutlets. Carrots, Sliced and Glazed.—Wash and scrape some fine large carrots, and cut them into equal slices. Partly boU them in salt and water, drain, and put them into a saucepan with just sufficient stock to cover them, a piece of butter, a little salt, and a good-sized lump of sugar. Boil quickly untU the gravy is reduced to glaze. Shake the sauce- pan over the fire for a few minutes, till all the gravy adheres to the carrots. Time, one hour and a half. Probable cost, Gd. or 8d. per bunch. Sufficient, six largo carrots for five persons. Carrots, Stewed. — Wash and slice some large carrots, and simmer them in as much weak broth as will cover them till they are nearly tender, then add a cupful of milk, and thicken the sauce with flour find butter. Season it with pepper and salt. Keep stirring the contents of the stiucepan to prevent them burn- ing. Put the carrots into a hot vegetable dish, and pour tho gi'avy over them. Time, one hour and a half. Sufiicient, six large carrots for five jwrsonB. Carrots, Sweet (for a' second course). —Boil six or eight largo carrots till tender, drain them, and pass thoui through a coarse hair sieve. Put the pulj) into a saucepan, and dry it over a modoiato fircj for a few minutcH, stirring it all tlie time. Mix with it two ounces of good ljutter, a pinch of salt, and a table- spoonful of iinoly-sifted sugar. When tliis is thorouglily blended, add a cupful of cream or now milk. Servo with toasted sipiiets. Time, one hour and a half. Sufficient for six persons. Carrots, To Dress in the German way.—Molt two ounces of butter in a sauce- pan. Lay in it six can-ots cut into tliin slices, with a little salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, and a tea-spoonful of finely-minced onion. Let thoui remain until tender, adding every now and then as it is required a little water or stocic. Thicken the sauce with a little floiu-, and about a quarter of an hour before Ber\'ing, add one table-spoonful of finely-minced parsley. Time, one hour. Sufficient for five or six persons. Cassell Pudding.—Take the weiglit of a largo egg in powdered sugar, butter, and flour. Whisk the egg thoroughly. Gradually' mix with it the sugar, which must be rubbed weU on the rind of a lemon before it is pounded, then tho flour, and the butter partially melted; add a pinch of salt. Well oil some cups, put a little apricot or other jam at the bottom of each, and fill them three parts with the mixture. Bake immediately in a good oven. Turn the puddings out, and serve them with wine sauce. Time to bake, half an hour. Probable cost for six puddings, 6d. AUow one for each person. Casserole of Potatoes.—Peel and boil some good mealy potatoes, mash them with a little salt, butter, cream, and the yolk of one egg to every pint of potatoes. Beat them two or three minutes over the fire to dry them thoroughly, then place them on a shallow dish, and work them with the hands into the shape of a raised pie. Leave a' hollow in the middle, ornament it with flutings, &c., brush it over with beaten egg, and brown it in a quick oven. FiU the inside with a ragout or mince, and serve hot. Casserole of Rice (English method).— Wash a pound of the best rice in two or three waters, and boil it very gently imtil it is quite tender but whole. Drain it and beat it well. If for a sweet casserole, use milk, sugar, a little butter, and lemon or other flavouring. If in- i tended for meat or fish, stew the rice with water I and fat, and season it with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. When quite cool, put a bordering about three inches high and three -wide round the edge of a shallow dish, brush it over with egg or clarified butter, and set it in the oven to brown. Then place in the middle the stew, cuiTy, or sweets which are prepared for it. Time to boil the rice, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of the interior, j Sufficient for five or six persons. Casserole of Rice (French method).— j Wash one pound of the best Carolina rice in two or throe waters. Drain it, and put it into a stewpan with a quart of water, a large onion, a tea-spoonful of siilt, and two ounces of fat.( ni ) CAS CAU The skinimiugs of saucepans wiU answer for this purpose, or fat bacon, but if these are not at hand, use butter. Sinuncr very gently till the rice is quite soft but whole. Thou dram it, and pound it to a paste. WeU butter a baking dish or casserole mould, and press the paste mto it Mark on the top a cover, making the mark rather deep. Poui- a little butter over the whole, let it get cold, then turn it out of the mould, and bake it in a very hot oven till it is brightly browned, but not hard. The oven can scarcely be too hot for it. Take off the marked cover about an inch in depth. Scoop out the middle, and fill it with whatever is prepared for it. This may consist of mincemeat, Irish stew, rechaufled curries, hashes, or macaroni. Pom- in a suitable sauce, replace the cover, and be- fore serving, return it to the oven for a few minutes. Time to boU the rice, about three- quarters of an hour. Probable cost, exclu- sive of the mincemeat, 6d. Sufficient for six persons. Casserole of Rice, with Eggs.—Pre- pare the rice as in the preceding recipe. When it has been worked into a stiff paste, line a weU- oiled mould with it; a piece of bread may be put inside, shaped properly, to hold it up, but care must be taken to leave a compact will all round. When baked, remove the bread, put in the mince or fricassee, and cover the top with poached eggs. Serve very hot. Time, three- quarters of an hour to boil the rice. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of the mixture. Sufficient for six persons. Casserole, Sweet.—Prepare the rice as before, using milk instead of water, and butter instead of bacon or other fat. The flavouring may consist of lemon, vanilla, or almond, ac- cording to taste. When the pudding is browned, scoop the rice from the middle, leaving, as before, a firm wall all around, and fill the hollow with jam, or a compote of any fruit. The latter is, we think, much to be preferred. Sift a little pounded sugar over the whole before serving. Time to boil the rice, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of the fruit. Suffi- cient for a good and pretty dish. Cassile.—Put a pint of cream or new milk i into a saucepan with the thin rind of a lemon, ] and three or four lumps of sugar. Let it stand near the fire for a few minutes to draw out the flavour of the lemon, then boU it, and pour it, when boiling, over three table-spoonfuls of arrowroot mixed smoothly with a small tea-cup- ful of cream. Return it to the saucepan, stir it over the fire for four minutes, pour into a damp mould, and when cold and firm, turn it into a glass dish, and serve with bright-coloured jam. Time, half an hour. Probable cost, 6d. Suffi- cient for a small dish. Cassolettes of Rice.—Prepare the rice as for a casserole {sec Casserole). Work it to a smooth paste, and fill some small jeUy-pots with it. Mark in each one an inner circle about three- quarters of an inch deep for the cover. When cold, turn the rice out, brush it over with egg, and brown in a quick oven. Take out the centre, fiU it with a ragout or mince, replace the cover, and serve. Cassolettes are. in fact, tiny casseroles. Some persons fry instead of baking them, but if this should be done, great care must be taken that they do not break in the process, and the butter or oil must be very hot. Time to fry, ten minutes. Probable cost, 2d. or 3d. each. Allow one for each person. Caudle.—Caudle is oatmeal gruel, sweet- ened, with ale, brandy, or wine added to it.' It may be made in several ways. The simplest is the following :—Mix a table-spoonful of oatmeal with a cupful of cold water. Pour a pint of boiling water or milk over it, return it to the saucepan, and let it boil for four or five minutes, stirring it aU the time. Add wine, ale, or brandy, according to taste. Sweeten, and season with nutmeg or ginger. This wiU. be thin caudle; if it is wanted thick, two table-spoonfuls of oatmeal must be used. Or, mix two table-spoonfuls of oatmeal in a pint of water. Let it stand one hour. Then strain, and boil it. Sweeten, and add wine, ale, or brandy, with seasoning to taste. Time to boil, twenty minutes. Caudle may be made with flour or ground rice instead of oatmeal. Probable cost, 1-Jd. per pint, ex- clusive of the wine. Sufficient for one person. Caudle (another way).—^Make a pint of thin oatmeal gruel (see preceding recipe). Let it boil, then stir into it, very gradually, the yolk of an egg mixed with a little cold water. Add a glass of sherry or port, a little grated nutmeg or lemon-rind, and three or four lumps of sugar. This caudle is wholesome and plea- sant. Time, twenty minutes. Probable cost, 3d. per pint, exclusive of the wine. Sufficient for one person. Caudle, Cold.—Pour a pint of cold boiled water on the rind of a small lemon, and let it stand for an hour. Take out the rind and mix in the yolk of an egg well beaten, a cupful of sweet wine, three or four lumps of sugar, and the lemon-juice. Probable cost, 2|d., exclusive of the wine. Sufficient for one person. Caudle, Old Fashioned Brown.— Stir two table-spoonfuls of oatmeal into a pint of water, and add the thin rind of a lemon, a blade of mace, and a table-spoonful of brown sugar. Let all boil together, then strain the liquid and add a pint of mild ale. Warm it for use. A little grated ginger is often put into this caudle. Or, make a little oatmeal gruel, sweeten and season it according to taste, and, just before serving, stir into it an equal quantity of fresh porter. Time, twenty minutes. Probable cost, l^d. per pint. Sufficient, one pint for each, person. Cauliflower. — This favourite vegetable should be cut early, while the dew is still upon it. Choose those that are close and white, and of medium size. Whiteness is a sign of quality and freshness. Great care should bo taken that there are no caterpillars about the stalk, and, to ensure this, lay the vegetable with its head downwards in cold water and salt for an hour before boiling it; or, better still, in cold water mixed with a little vinegar. Trim away the outer leaves, and cut the stalk quite close. Cauliflowers are in season from the middle ot Juno till the middle of November.CAU ( 112 ) CAU Cauliflower (iV la Fmn(,'aiH())._Cut away tho stalk and tho groon loavos, and divide a cauliliowor into quarters. Put tho branches into a little vinogfir and water, then jnit them into a stowimi with soniu boiling' water, with a tiiblo-apoouful of salt in it, and let them boil until thoy are done. Tliis may bo ascertained by taking a little piece between the finger and thumb, and if, though still firm, it give away easily, it is sufficiently cooked. Drain tlie cauliflower and an-ango it neatly in a dish. Pour over it a pint of good molted butter. Time to boil, about twelve minutes. Probable cost, 4d. for a medium-sized cauliflower. Sufii- cient, one for two persons. Cauliflower (a la Sauce Blanche) .—Cut the stalks oif close, trim tho loaves, and put the cauliflower into a little vinecrar and water to draw out tho insects. Put it head downwards in boiling salt and water, and boil it till it is done. As cauliflowers will continue to cook, though more slowly, if left in hot water, if they are a little too soon, they may be taken oif the fire before they are quite ready. Take a little piece of the stalk between the finger and thumb, and if it yields easily it is done. Drain the vegetable and arrange if in a hot dish, and pour over it a little French white sauce made by adding {of the Jire) the yolk of an egg to half a pint of good melted butter. Probable cost, 4d. or 6d. Oauliflower, Boiled.— Cut the stalk close to the bottom, and pare away the tops of the leaves, leaving a circle of shortened leaf- stalks all round. Put the cauliflower head downwards into a little vinegar and water for a quarter of an hour, as this will be sure to draw out the insects. Put it into a pan of boiling water, with a table-spoonful of salt in it. Some persons prefer milk and water. Ee- move the scirm carefully as it rises, or the cauli- flower -will be discoloured. BoU till tender. This may be ascertained by taking a Uttle piece of the stalk between the finger and thumb, and if it yields easily to pressure it is ready. Drain and serve. Put a lump of butter the size of an egg into a saucepan with a dessert-spoon- ful of flour. IMix smoothly. Add salt and half a pint of water. Stir the sauce till it boils, and strain over the vegetable. Time : a large cauli- flower, fifteen to twenty-five minutes ; a small one, twelve to fifteen minutes. As cauliflowers will continue cooking, though slowly, if left in the water in the stewpan, it is important that they should be taken off the fire before they are quite done, unless they can be served im- mediately. Sufficient, a small one for one person. Probable cost, 3d. to 6d. Cauliflower, Moulded, with Sauce. —Boil four largo white cauliflowers in a little thin flour and water until tender, then cut off the stalks and press them head downwards into a hot basin. Turn them into a tureen, and pour round them a little tomato or piquante sauce. Before serving, place the stalks neatly round them. They should look like one immense cauli- flower. Time, fifteen to twenty-five minutes to boil. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Probable cost, 4d. or 6d. each. Cauliflower Pickled. - This picklt, Should he made about tho btiginning of August Choose firm, fresh, white heads, and let them be cut on a dry day. Pare away the leaves and the stem, and jtliice the flowers for five minutes in boiling water, but do not let them boU up. Drain tlioin, and cut them into convenient-sized pieces, and leave them on a sieve to dry. Half fill jars with the flowers, cover with cold •wine- gar in which spices have been boiled, allowing a quart of vinegar to two ounces of peppercorns, a drachm of cayenne, an ounce of ginger, and half an ounce of mace. Cover closely. Pro- bable cost, Is. per pint jar. Cauliflower Sauce.—Make a jnnt of good wliite sauce. Boil a cauliflower till tender, drain, and chop it small, then stir it into the boiling sauce, let it remain over the fire for a minute or two, and serve. Time, from twenty to thirty minutes. Probable cost, from 4d. to 6d. per head. Sufficient for a pint and a half of sauce. Cauliflower Soup (maigre). — Put a quarter of a pound of butter into a stewpan, let it melt, then stir into it verj- smoothly, three- dessert-spoonfuls of curry powder, and a tea- spoonful of celery seed. Slice into it a large cauliflower, a large onion, and a table-spoonful of French beans. Fry the vegetables gently for a few minutes, then add, gradually, three pints of boiling water, or the water in which cauliflowers have been boiled. Simmer gently till the vegetables are reduced to a pulp, then strain the soup, and return it to the saucepan. Add a little salt and pepper. Put in a few I sprigs of boiled cauUflower before serving it. A glass of white wine will improve the soup. Serve with boiled rice, and lay a sHce of the crumb of bread toasted at the bottom of the tureen. Time, two hours. Probable cost. Is. 2d. for this quantity. Sufficient for three or four persons. Cauliflower, with Stufl&ng.—Choose a saucepan the exact size of the dish intended to be used. Cleanse a large, firm, white cauliflower, and cut it into sprigs; throw these into boiling- salt and water for two minutes; then take them out, drain, and pack them tightly with the heads downwards, in the saucepan, the bottom of which must have been previously covered with thin slices of bacon. Fill up the vacant spaces with a stuffing made of three table-spoonfuls of finely-minced veal, the same of beef suet, four table-spoonfuls of bread- crumbs, a little pepper and salt, a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, a tea-spoonful of minced chives, and a dozen small mushrooms chopped small. Strew these ingredients over the cauli- flowers in alternate layers, and pour over them three well-beaten eggs. When these are well soaked, add sufficient nicely-flavoured stock to cover the whole. Simmer gently till the cauli- flowers are tender, and the sauce very much reduced ; then turn the contents of the saucepan upside down on a hot dish, and the cauliflowers will be foimd standing in a savoury mixture. Time, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, 4d. or 6d. for a large cauliflower. Sufficient for four or five persons.CEL ( 113 ) OAU Cauliflowers (au Gratin).—Cleanse, trim, and quarter one or two lai'ge cauliflowers. Throw tliem into boiling water, and let them remain for five minutes; di-ain and boil them in plenty of salted water until they are ready. Whilst they are boihng rrux smoothly together in a stewpan an ounce of butter and an ounce of flour, add a quarter of a pint of cold water, and a little popper and salt. Let the sauce boil, and stir it over the lire for ten minutes. Put in with it an ounce of grated Parmesan cheese and one table-spoonful of cream, and take the saucepan from the fire. Cut the cauliflowers into neat pieces; lay half of these in a tureen, pour a little of the sauce over them, and add the remainder of the vegetables and th.3 rest of the sauce. Sprinkle a large table-spoonful of bread- raspings and another of grated Parmesan over the top, and bake the preparation in a hot oven imtU it is nicely browned. Serve very hot. Time to brown, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Cauliflowers, with Parmesan Cheese.—Choose three or four young, finn, white cauliflowers, cut o£E the stalks and the stems, making them flat, so that they will stand nicely in the dish. Cleanse them thoroughly, and boU them untU tender, but not sufficiently so to TWO. any risk of their breaking. Dish them 80 as to make them look like one caiiliflower, and powder them thickly with grated Parmesan cheese. Pour a good sauce over this. When it is firmly set, add another layer of cheese, and strew over this some finely-grated bread- crumbs. The sauce may be made thus :—Kub a table-spoonful of flour into half an ounce of sweet butter, mix it smoothly over the fixe, and add very gradually a breakfast-cupful of water, one pinch of salt, and a small pinch of pepper. Stir it constantly tiU it boils, then take it from the fire for a minute or two, and add slowly the yolk of an egg mixed with the juice of half a lemon and a tea-spoonful of water. Stir until the whole is well mixed. Brovm the caiiliflower with a salamander or in a hot oven, pour a little sauce round, and serve hot, as a third course dish. Time to boil the cauliflower, twelve to twenty minutes. Probable cost, 4d. or 6d. each. Sufficient for six persons. Caveach Fish. — Clean some large fish, either cod, salmon, or mackerel, and cut them into slices. Rub each slice well with pepper, salt, and nutmeg; and fry them in hot butter or lard till they are lightly browned. Let them get cold, then lay them in jars. Boil some spices in vinegar, allowing two finely-minced shallots, two cloves, a blade of mace, a quarter of an ounce of black peppercorns, and two bay-leaves to a quart of vinegar. Nearly fill the jars with this, when cold, and put on the top a little salad- oil. Tie them down closely. The fish will keep good for some months. It should be prepared when the fish is in full season, and when served, the pieces should be piled in the middle of the dish, and a salad served round them. Probable cost, cod, 6d. per poimd; salmon, Is. 2d. per poimd; mackerel, 4d. or 6d. Caviare and Mock Caviare.— The true caviare must bo bought. It is usually eaten as a relish, with dry toast, pepper, lemon- juice or vinegar and oil. When fresh, the taste is rather like that of oysters. It is made of the roe of sturgeon or salmon. ^Mock caviare is made by pounding boned anchovies, with a clove of garlic; then mixing with the paste lemon- juice or vinegar, salt, cayenne, and a few drops of salad-oil. It should be served spread thinly on bread and butter or toast. Time to prepare, about haK an hour. Probable cost, anchovies, Is. per half pint bottle. Cayenne, Home-made.—Cayenne is so much adulterated, and A-aries so much in strength, that we strongly advise those who are partial to it to make it themselves. Some of that sold in England has been found to be coloured with red lead, and even that sold in Jamaica is not to be relied upon, as it is prepared from several sorts of red capsicums, aU of inferior quality both in pungency and flavour. The best time to make it is in September or October, and the chiliea should be used as fresh as possible. Take two hundred large chilies, remove the stalks and dry them in a colander before the fire, being careful that they do not burn. Pound them,, with a quarter of their weight in salt, to a fine powder. Put the powder into a bottle and cork it closely. The flavour of this cayenne will be superior to that sold in the shops, and it will not be nearly so fiery. Time, fourteen hours to dry. Sufficient for a quarter of a pound of cayenne. Probable cost of chiLies, from Is. 6d. to 3s. per hundred. Cayenne Vinegar or Essence.—Put half a pint of brandy, wine, claret, or ATnegar into a bottle with half an ounce of cayenne. Let it infuse for three weeks, then strain and bottle it for use. This essence is excellent for flavouring sauces, gravies, &c., but it should bo- used judiciously, as the strength of cayenne varies so much that is impossible to say how much ought to be used. The best way is to put in two or three drops, then taste, and add more if required. Cecils.—Mince very finely four table-spoon- fuls of any kind of cold meat, and put it into » saucepan with an equal weight of finely-grated bread-crimibs, a dessert-spoonful of chopped onions, two or three boned anchovies, a Uttle salt and pepper, half a tea-spoonful of chopped lemon-rind, a dessert-spoonfidof minced parsley,, and a piece of butter warmed. Mix them over the fire for a few minutes, then take them off,, and, when cool, add the yolk of an egg. Form the mixture into balls rather larger than a hen's' egg, dip them in beaten egg and bread-crumbs, and fry till they become a Ught brown. Serve with good brown gravy. Time to fry, ten- minutes. Probable cost, exclusive of the cold meat, -Jd. each. Allow one for each person. Celeriac.—The stalks of this vegetable can hardly be distinguished from celery. It is much more easily cultivated, and cooked in a much shorter time. It maybe boiled, stewed, and served with white or browTi sauce in the same manner as celery. Four or five minutes wiU stew it. Celery.—This vegetable imparts an agree- able and peculiar flavour to soups, sauces, &c. It is generally eaten raw, the brittle leaf-stalksCEL CEL ( 114 ) being the Engliahumn'B favourite accompani- ment to broad and choose. There are tJoVerul ways in whicli it may bo nicely prepared, and when cooked it ia nioro digestible and equally palatiible. When tho roota are not to ho had, the pounded aoed is an excellent subatituto foi' Havouring. It is in aeason from October to February, and is bettor when it has been touched by tho frost. Celery, Boiled.—Have ready a saucepan of boiling- water, witli a little salt in it. Wash tho celery carefully. Cut off the outer leaves, make the stalks even, and lay them in small hunches. Throw those into the water, and lot them boil gently until tender, leaving the saucepan uncovered. When done, drain, and place them on a piece of toast which has boon (lipped in the liqmd. Pom- over them a little good melted butter, and serve. Time : young celery, three-quarters of an hour; old, ono hour and a half. Probable cost, 2d. to 4d. per head. Sufficient, one head for two persons. Celery, Essence of.—Put an ounce of pounded celery seed into a bottle, and pour over it half a pint of spirits of wine, white wine, or brandy. Let this infuse for three weeks, then strain and hottle for use. When wanted, put a few drops upon a lump of sugar, and throw it into the pan, and the flavour will immediately diffuse itself throughout. This is a pleasant addition to salads. Four or five drops on a small lump of sugar will be sufficient for a pint. Probable cost, 2d., exclusive of the spirit. Celery for Flavouring.—The outside dark leaves of celery should nevfer be thrown away, as they may always he used for flavour- ing soups, sauces, and gravies. If a tea-spoon- ful of celery seed be bruised and tied in a little piece of muslin, then thrown into the stock pot, it will impart as much flavour as two heads of fresh celery. Celery seed for flavouring is sold in penny packets. Sufficient, one penny packet for two quarts. Celery Garnishing.—Cut the tops off two heads of celery, leaving each head about eight inches long. Point the roots, and put them in boiling water for eight or ten minutes. Tie them together, and put them in a saucepan; cover them with good stock, and add a table- spoonful of pot fat, one carrot, one onion, stuck with two cloves, a little salt and pepper, and a hay-leaf. Close the saucepan, and let the con- tents simmer gently for an hour and a haK, then drain the celery and arrange it round a diah of boiled fowls, &c. Prohable cost, 2d. or 4d. per head. This quantity will be sufficient for a small dish of fowls. Celery, Puree of.—Wash thoroughly four heads of fresh white celery, cut them into small pieces, and put them in a stewpan, with an onion sliced, and a quarter of a pound of hutter. Let them simmer very gently till tender, then add a quarter of a pound of flour mixed smoothly with a pint of milk. Let this boil up, then pass tho whole through a fine sieve, season with salt, popper, and a little piece of sugar, and add some butter and very thick cream to the pur6e. Servo in tho middle of a dish, with cutlets, &c., round. Time for young celery, threo-quarterfl of an hour; if old, one hour and a Juilt. Probable coat, 2d. to 4d. per head. Celery Salad.—Cut blanched celery very KinuU. Bo careful that it is perfectly diy, and do not prepare it until two or three minutes be- tore it ia to ho used. Pour over it a Sliiyon- naise sauce {see Mayonuiiise) and gamisli with green celery leaves. Time, a few minutes, i rohablo cost, 2d. to 4d. per head. Sufficient ono liead for two persons. * Celery Sauce.—Cut the white part of two heads of celery into pieces about ono inch and a half long. Put two ounces of butter into a saucepan, and when it is molted, throw in the celery, cover closely, and stew gently till it IS quite tender. Mix in very smootlllv a largo table-spoonful of flour, and when it "has browned a little, add a breakfast-cupful of good gra,vy, salt, and a little nutmeg. Pub through a sieve, make hot, and serve. Probable cost, 2d. to 4d. per head. Sufficient for one small fowl. Celery Sauce (a quick way).—If celery sauce is wanted in a hurry, some good melted butter may he flavoured with a few drops of the essence of celery, and a little cream or new milk, and a pinch of powdered mace, may be added. Time, ten minutes. Sufficient, five drops on a piece of sugar to a pint. Probable cost, 6d. per half pint. Celery Sauce, for Turkeys, Fowls, &C.—Slice the best part of four heads of young celery in small pieces, and boil them in salt and water for twenty minutes. Drain them, and put them into a clean saucepan, with suffi- cient veal broth or gravy to cover them, add a tea-spoonful of salt, a blade of mace, and stew aU gently together until quite tender. Add two ounces of butter, and a dessert-spoonful of flour, and when this is quite smooth, stir in a cupful of good cream. Time, one hour. Pro- bable cost, 2d. to 4d. per head. Sufficient for a couple of small fowls. If this sauce should be wanted richer, the yolks of two or three eggs may he added, but celery sauce is fre- quently spoilt by too much seasoning. Celery Soup.—Cut the white part of four heads of celery into pieces about an inch long, and put them into a saucepan with a pint of good white stock, two oimces of hutter, a quarter of a pound of lean ham, and a lump of sugar. Let them boil for a quarter of an hour, put in with them three pints more of stock, a little salt, and a hlado of mace. Stew gently for an hour, then press the soup through a coarse sieve. Make it hot again, pour it into a tureen, add a pint of boiling cream, and serve immediately with toasted sippets. If liked, this soup may be thickened with a little flour. Probable cost, lOd. per pint if cream be used. Sufficient for eight persons. Celery, Stewed. — Wash four heads of celery very clean, trim them neatly, cutting off the leaves and tops; cut tlicm into three-inch lengths, and tie them in small bundles, and par- boil thorn in sufficient salt and water to cover them. Drain and stew them, irntU tender, in some stock. Brown two ounces of butter with a table-spoonful of flour in a saucepan, dilute it with the stock in which the celery was boiled,CEL CHA C 116 ) lay the celery in it, let it boil for ten minutes more, and serve as hot as possible. Time, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, 2d. to 4d. per head. Sufficient for six persons. Celery, Stewed (ii la Or^me).—Wash very clean two heads of celeiy, trim them neatly, cutting off the outer stalks, the leaves, and the tops, and boil them in salt and water until nearly tender. Drain them and put them in a dish. Have ready in another saucepan a break- fast-cupful of good cream. Let it boil, with a piece of butter rolled in flour, tUl it is thick and smooth; then pour it over the celery, grate a little nutmeg over the top, and serve. Time to boil the celery, from thi-ee-quarters of an hour to one hour and a half. Sufficient for four persons. Probable cost, 2d. to 4d. per head. Celery, To Dress.—Cut off the end of the root, leaving the white part; wash it very carefully, trim away all the decayed leaves and outer stalks, and if the root be very thick, split it into quarters. Send it to table in a celery glass half filled with cold water. Curl the top leaves by drawing the point of a skewer through them, dividing them into strips about five inches from the top. Celery, To Fry.—Cold boiled celery wiU answer for this purpose. Split three or four heads, and dip the pieces into clarified butter, and fry them until they are lightly browned; lay them on some blotting-paper for a minute to drain.off the fat, and pile them like sugar biscmts on a napkin. Garnish the dish prettily with parsley. They may be dipped in batter before frying, and served with melted butter, or with good brown sauce made with the gravy in which they were boiled. Time to fry, ten minutes. Probable cost, 2d. to 4d. per head. Suflicient for five or six persons. Celery, To Preserve through the Winter.—Gather the celery on a fine dry day before it is injured by the frost, cut off the leaves and roots, and lay it in a dry airy place for a few days till it is partially dried; then remove it to a cool cellar, where it will be quite secure from frost, and pack it up with sand, putting layers of celery and of sand alternately. Celery Vinegar.—Bruise an ounce of celery seed, put it into a quart bottle, which must be filled up with cold boiled vinegar, let it soak for three weeks, then strain, and bottle for use. A few di-ops are an agreeable addition to salads, &c. Probable cost, 6d. per pint. Celery, with White Sauce.—Prepare the celery as for stewing, let it stew in salt and water for ten minutes, then drain it, and just cover it with a little veal broth; stew it again till tender. As the broth boils away, add a little milk. When the celery is sufficiently cooked, arrange it on a hot dish, thicken the gravy with a little flour and butter, season it lightly with Bait and pepper, and pour it over the celery. Time, one hour or more. Probable cost, 2d. to 4d. per head. Sufficient, one head for two persons. Chalybeate Water, Artificial (for weakly constitutions tluit require iron).—Those who cannot travel in search of ferruginous springs may very easily prepare a supply at home. Take half a pound of iron na.iLB, wash them clean, and leave them exposed to the air and dew for a few hours in some place where they will take a little rust without being defiled by blacks, then put them into a jar capable of holding three or four pints ; fill it up with rain or river water, which has been poured high from one vessel into another, in order to aerate it. Let it stand thirty-six hours, when it will be ready for use. A wine-glassful ought to be taken twice a day, a quarter of an hour after meals. Champagne Cream.—Beat the yolks of five eggs veiy thorouglily, and add by degrees some finely-pounded white sugar, sufficient to make it stiff and firm. Then add a bottle of champag-ne, keep on stirring till it is all mixed. Last of all, put in a table-spoonful of brandy. Put the cream into a glass jug, and serve it in champagne glasses. Time, a quarter of an hour. The probable cost will depend upon the price of the champagne. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Champagne Cup.—Pour a bottle of champagne into a silver or glass cup, large enough to hold three quarts. Add to this two bottles of soda or seltzer water, a table-spoonful of brandy, and sixteen ounces of pounded ice Stir it well with a silver spoon, and add, last of all, a table-spoonful of finely-sifted sugar. Be careful, when putting in the sugar, that the wine does not overflow. A little cucumber-rind is by some persons considered an improvement. Time, a few minutes. Sufficient for a party of nine or ten. Champfagne, Currant.—Put four pounds of loaf sugar into a saucepan with six quarts of water; skim it well, and boil it till it is a clear sjTup; pour it over a quart of white and a quart of red currants, which have been stripped from the stalks. Let it stand for one hour and a half, then stir in two table-spoonfuls of yeast. Let it remain for two days, stirring it fre- quentlj', pass it through a coarse bag into a small cask, and fine it with a quarter of an ounce of isinglass. Probable cost, currants, 4d. or 6d. per quart. Champagne, English.—The yellow hairy gooseberries are the best for this purpose. They should be taken when they are fully grown, but before they are in the least ripe. Eeject all unsound or bruised fruit, and pick off the stalks and heads. Bruise a gallon of fruit so as to burst the berries without breakitig the seeds. Be careful that the tub in which they are placed is scrupulously clean. Pour over them a gallon of water, and let them stand in a warm place for forty-eight hours, stirring them frequently, until all the juice and pulp are separated from the rest of the fruit. Strain the liquid, pressing the pulp with a wooden spoon till it is quite dry. Pour it upon four pounds of coarse sugar, and let it stand three days more, stUl stirring it frequently, then strain 'it through a coarse bag into a cask, and mix with it a cupful of the best gin. Let it stand twelve months, then bottle it. It must be bottled in the spring. If it is not quite clear, it may bo fined with a little isinglass; half an ounce is enough for four gallons. After the bungs areCHE CHA ( 116 ) driven in tightly, a vent-hole should he made in the cask. Probahle cost of gooBoborries, Is. per gallon. Chancellor Pudding.—Butter rather thickly a plain round mould, and ornament it with alternate rows of raisins and citron, mak- ing a star or some other device at the bottom of the mould. Put in it a layer of small sponge- aikes, sprinkle over them a few raisins and a little iinely-choppod citron, then four or live ratafias, and pour over those a toa-spoonful of sherry, and repeat imtil tho mould is nearly full. Take a pint of milk sweetened, and flavoured with Icmon-rind, and mix -with it tho yolks of four eggs, well beaten. Stir this a few minutes oyer the fire till it thickens, but it must not be allowed to boil. When it is time to steam the pudding, pour the custard, which must be cold, gradually over the cakes. Place a piece of well-buttered writing paper on the top, put it in a saucepan, and either boil or steam it very gently indeed, until sufficiently cooked. It should stand four or five minutes before it is turned out. Serve with wine sauce. Time to boil, or to steam, one hour. Probable cost. Is. 4d., exclusive of the sherry. Sufficient for four or five persons. Chantilly Soup.—Boil one pint of young green peas, shelled, three spring onions, and a sprig of mint, until the peas are qiiite tender. Remove the mint and the onions, press the peas through a sieve, and pour three pints of nicely- flavoured boiling stock to them. Serve very hot. Time, forty minutes. Probable cost, 8d. per pint. Sufficient for six persons. Char.—This fish is considered a great delicacy, and is peculiar to the lakes of Cum- berland ; it is seldom offered for sale in the London market. The flesh is rather like that of trout. Wash the char, dry it with a soft cloth, dust it over with flour, and broil it gently till it is ready. Send piquante sauce in a tureen to table with it. Time to broil, ten or fifteen minutes. One medium-sized char will suffice for two persons. Charlotte.—A' Charlotte, or French fruit pudding, may be made of almost every kind of fruit, or of two or three kinds together. Take a plain round mould, butter it well, and line the bottom and sides completely with strips of the cnunb of bread well buttered, making each piece fold over another, so as to make a complete wall of bread. Fill up the dish with any sort of stewed, fresh, or preserved fruit, taking care to have it sufficiently moist to soak the bread a little. Cover the top with slices of buttered bread. Put a plate and a weight over the pudding, and bake it in a quick oven. Turn it out in a shape, and serve with sifted sugar and cream. Time to bake, ten minutes. Probable cost. Is. for a mould. Sufficient for four or five persons. Charlotte (a la Parisienne).—Cut a Savoy, sponge, or rice cake into thin horizontal slices, spread some good jam on each slice, and restore the cake to its original shape. Cover it equally with an iciag made by mixing the Ughtly- whisked whites of four eggs with five ounces of pounded loaf sugar. Sift a little more sugar over it, and dry the icing in a gentle oven. Pound cake may be iced in the same way, but, of course, if this is used tho jam should be omitted. Tho Charlotte must remain in a gentle oven till the icing is dry. Probable cost. Is. 8d. for a medium-sized cake. Suffi- cient for four or five persons. Charlotte Prussienne. — Put a little nicely-flavoured red jelly, not quite an inch deep, at the bottom of a plain mould. Let it become stiff. Line the sides of the mould compactly with finger biscuits, and half fill it with good jelly. Put it in the ice jjot, and as it begins to freeze fill it up with an equal quantity of well-whipt cream. Serve it turned out of the mould. All sorts of variations may be made in the flavouring of this pudding. Time to freeze, half an hour. It had better remain in the ice until ready to serve. A medium-sized mould will suffice for six persons. Charlotte Russe.—Line a plain round mould with finger biscuits, carefully put them close together, and form a round or star at the bottom of the mould. Take a pint of cream and whisk it well with a little sugar and half an ounce of gelatine dissolved in a little water. Mix with it half a pint of apple, apricot, straw- berry, or any other jam, and set it to freeze. Cover it vsdth a piece of Savoy cake the shape of the mould, and be carefiU to fit it exactly, so that when it is turned out it will not be likely to break. Let it remain in the ice tmtil it is sufficiently frozen. Turn out and serve. If fruit is not at hand the cream may be flavoured with coffee, burnt almond, vanilla, &c. Time to freeze, about an hour. Probable cost, 4s. Sufficient for a quart mould. Charlotte Ilusse (another way).—Line a plain round mould with French biscuit of different colours. Divide the mould into four compartments by placing inside pieces of biscuit the height of the mould perpen(Hcularly. These must of course be placed across both ways. Fill each division with a different puree of fruit, cover it closely with biscuit, and bake in a good oven. Tiun it out of the mould, and serve with a little custard. Time to bake, half an hour. The probable cost -will depend upon the fruit with which it is filled. Sufficient, one pint mould for four persons. Cheese, Bath Cream.—Put a gallon of new milk and two quarts of cold spring water into the cheese-tub, with sufficient rennet to turn it. More will be required than if milk alone were used. When the curd comes let the whey drip from it, then pour a little water over it and let it drip again. Fill the vat with it, place a weight upon it, and apply dry cloths for a day or two. Turn it out on a plate, cover it with another plate, and turn occasionally. It will be ready for use ia a fortnight. Neither salt nor colouring are required. Cheese, Blue Mould, To Produce. —The blue mould which is so much liked in cheese comes no one can teU how. It may be accelerated by brushing it while still soft with a hard brush dipped in whey, and then rubbmg it once a dav with butter; and repeating thisCHE CHE ( 117 ) for three weeks, or unta the blue mould begins to appeal". Cheese Canapees. — Cut a stale loaf into slices about u quarter of an inch thick. Divide these into pieces about two inches long, and one inch vdde, and fry them in hot butter or oil till thev are a bright golden colour. Spread a little "thin mustard on eacli of these pieces, lay over that some Cheshire or Parmesan cheese, and put them in a quick oven till the cheese is dissolved. Serve as hot as possible. Time, altogether, about half an hour. Probable cost, about Id. each piece. Allow two or three pieces for each person. Cheese, Cayenne.—Take a quarter of a pound each of flour, butter, and grated cheese. Mix them thoroughly, and add a pinch of salt and as much cayenne pepper as will cover a fourpenny-piece. Mix with yolk of egg and water to a smooth stiff paste, roll this out to the thickness of half an inch, then cut it into pieces about three inches long and one inch wide. Bake these until they are lightly browned, and serve them as hot as possible. Time to bake the fingers, five or ten minutes. Probable cost, 8d. for this quantity. Sufficient for four persons. Cheese, Cheshire, Imitation.—Put the milk fresh from the cow, and -svithout skim- ming it, into a tub, with as much rennet as will turn it before it has had time to get quite cold. When the curd comes, draw it out with the fingers as gently as possible, as rough handling will destroy its richness. Put half an ounce of salt with everj' pound of cirrd. Lay the curd little by little in the cheese vat, which should have holes in the lower part of it, and put the vat into the press. When it has been there a couple of hours take it out, put it into a little warm water to harden the skin, then wipe it dry, cover it with a cloth, and return it to the press (placing it in the vat, which has also been wiped diy) for seven or eight hours. Take it out again, smooth the edges, and before putting it in the last time prick some holes in it a couple of iuches deep with a bodkin. Allow it to remain for two days, turning it at least twice a day; take it out, put it on a clean board, turn and move frequently, and i-ub with a dry cloth. It will be ready in about eighteen months. At the end of the year after it is made make a hole in the middle and pour in some good wine. Make up the hole with some of the cheese. These cheeses should be about eight inches in thickness, and will be found to be verj- mellow and good. Cheese, Cream.—Take some thick cream and tie it in a wet cloth. Stir a tea-spoonful of salt into every pint of cream. Hang it in a cool airy place for six or seven days, then turn it into a clean cloth, which must be put into a mouM, and imder a weight for about twenty- four hours longer, when it will be fit for use. It should be turned twice a day. Probable cost, cream, Is. 6d. per pint. Cheese, Crusts for, or Pulled Bread.—Full the crumb of a new loaf into small rough pieces, place them on a dish or tin plate, and put them into a quick oveu till they are lightly browned and crisp. If the oven is not hot tliey may bo browned before a clear fire in a Dutch oven. The crumb of half a quartern loaf will make enough for half a dozen persons. Cheese Fondue or Soufile.—Melt an ounce of butter in a saucepan, mix smoothly with it one ounce of flour, a pinch of salt and cayenne, and a quarter of a pint of milk ; simmer the mixture gently over the fiLrc, stin-ing it all the time, till it is as thick as melted butter; stir into it about three ounces of finely-grated Parmesan or good Cheshire cheese. Turn it into a basin, and mix with it the yolks of two eggs well beaten. Whisk three whites to a solid froth, and just before the souffle is" baked, put them into it, and pour the mixture into a souffle dish or small round tin. It should bo only half filled, as the fondue will rise very high. Pin a napkin round the dish in which it is baked, and serve it the moment it is taken out of the oven, as if it is allowed to fall, its beauty wiU be entirely gone. On this account it is better to have a metal cover over it strongly heated. Time twenty minutes. Pro- bable cost, Is. 3d. if made with milk. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Cheese Fondue or Souffle (another way).—Boil a quarter of a pint of milk, and stir into it tiU melted an ounce of butter. Pour it upon half a tea-cupful of fine bread-crumbs. Soak a few minutes, then add half a tea-cupful of grated cheese, the yolks of two eggs, and a little salt. Butter a souffle tin, and tie round it, to make the sides higher, a band of buttered paper. Just before putting the souffle into the oven, dash in the whites of three eggs which have been whisked to a firm froth. Bake in a quick oven till the centre is firm, and serve immediately. Cheese Fritters.—Cheese which has be- come a little dry will answer for this purpose, though, of course, fresh cheese will be better. Put three ounces of cheese in a mortar, with a dessert-spoonful of finely-minced ham, three dessert-spoonfuls of finely-grated bread-crumbs, a tea-spoonful of dry mustard, a piece of butter about the size of a small egg, two or three grains of cayenne, and the yolk of an egg well beaten. Pound these ingredients together until they are perfectly smooth, then fonn the paste into balls about the size of a walnut, flatten to a thickness of half an inch, dip them in batter, and fry them until lightly browned, and drain. Place them on a napkin, and serve as hot as possible. Time to fry, two or three minutes. Probable cost, 8d. for this quantity. One or two will suffice for each person. Cheese Omelet.—Whisk two eggs thoroughly. Allow a pinch of salt, the same of pepper, half a tea-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley, and a tea-spoonful of grated Parmesan or Cheshire cheese to every two eggs. Mix completely. Put a piece of butter the size of an egg into the frying-pan. When it is hot, pour in the mixture, and stir it with a woodenCHE ( 118 ) CHE epoon until it begins to sot. Discontinue stir- riuo;, but shako tho pan for a minute or so, then fold tho omelet in two, and keep on shaking tho pan, and, if it seems likely to stick, put a little piece of butter under it. When it is lightly browned, turn it on a hot dish. It must not bo overdone. Tho inside ought to be quite juicy. If it is preferred, the cheese may be linely grated and strewed over the omelet after it is cooked, instead of mixed with it before. Time to fry, ten minuti s. Probable cost, 6d., with two eggs. Sufficient for one person. Cheese, Ox Cheek.—This is very much the same sort of thing as pork cheese, an ox. head being substituted for a pig's head. Take half an ox head, cleanse it thoroughly, remove the eye, and lay it in lukewarm water for some hours. Then put it into a saucepan with suffi.- cient cold water to cover it. Take oli the scum as it rises, and when the meat separates easily from the bones, take it out, remove the bones, and chop the meat small, seasoning it with a table-spoonful of powdered thyme, tho same of finely-minced parsley, a little grated nutmeg, together with salt and white pepper to season it. Put it in a plain round mould, and place a weight on the top. Turn it out when cold, and cut it into thin slices. The liquor in which the head was boUed will make good gravy. Time to boil, about three hours. Pro- bable cost, 5d. or 6d. per pound. Suitable for a breakfast or luncheon dish. Cheese Paste.—This is made by pound- ing cheese in a mortar with a little butter, and adding wine, vinegar, pepper, and mustard ac- cording to taste, until it is of the consistency of stiff paste. It is then used as a relish with bread and butter or biscuits for luncheon, supper, &c. Cream cheese may be made into a paste by mixing it with a little flour and butter, and two or three eggs beaten with a little good cream. Time to prepare, about half an hour. Cheese Pastry, Ramequins of.—Take some good puff paste. Any that is left after making pies, tarts, &c., wiU answer the purpose. EoU it out lightly, and sprinkle over it nicely- flavoured grated cheese. Fold the paste in three, and sprinkle every fold with the cheese. Cut little shapes out with an ordinary pastry cutter, brush them over -with the beaten yolk of egg, and bake in a quick oven. Serve them as hot as possible. Time to bake, ten minutes. Probable cost, lOd. for half a pound of paste. Sufficient for three or foiir persons. Cheese Patties.—Line some tartlet tins with good puff paste, and half fill them with a mixture made thus:—Put a quarter of a pound of cheese, cut into smaU pieces, in a mortar with a pinch of salt, half a tea-spoonful of pepper, half a tea-spoonful of raw mustard, and a piece of butter tho size of an egg. Poimd it smoothly, and add, by degrees, the well-beaten yolks of three eggs, and a table-spoonful of sherry. Mix these ingredients thoroughly, and just before the patties are to be baked add the white of an egg beaten to a solid froth. Bake in a quick oven. Time, about a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, Ijd. each. AUow one for each person. Cheese, Potted.—Put half a pound of (ihoese, Cheshire, Glo'ster, or Stilton, cut into small pieces, into a marble mortar, with one ounce and a half of fresh butter, a tea-spoonful of sifted loaf sugar, a tea-spoonful of made mustard, and a little cayenne, curry powder, or anchovy powilor. Pound these ingredients well together, and as soon as the mixture becomes a sniooth paste, put it into a jar, cover it with clarified butter, and tie it up closely. A little sherry may bo added or not. Potted choose is good spread on bread and butter, and is more digestible than when eaten in the usual way. Dry cheese may be used for it. If very dry a larger proportion of butter will be required. If the butter used is sweet, and it is covered quite closely, it will keep good for two or three weeks. Time, about twenty minutes. Probable cost. Is. 2d. per pound. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Cheese Pudding. — Put a breakfast- cupful of milk into a saucepan, with a piece of butter the size of a large egg. Let it remain until the butter is melted, then pour it over three-quarters of a pound of bread-crumbs, and half a pound of grated cheese; let these soak for twenty minutes, then add a pinch of salt and foirr eggs well beaten. Pour the mixture into a well-buttered dish, and bake in a quick oven. This is a good way to finish up a rather dry crust of cheese. Time to bake, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, exclusive of the cheese, 9d. Sufficient for six persons. Cheese Pudding (another way).—Dis- solve a piece of butter the size of a walnut in a cupful of new milk, and pour it over a table- spoonful of bread-crumbs; let it soak for a little while, then add two eggs well beaten, and half a pound of finely-grated cheese. Pour the mixture into a well-buttered mould, and bake in a quick oven. Serve as hot as possible. Time to bake, twenty minutes or more. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of the cheese. Sufficient for three or four persons. Cheese Pudding (another way).—Take half a povmd of finely-grated cheese, and mix it with the well-beaten yolks of five eggs ; add two ounces of fresh butter beaten to a cream, and a cupful of new milk, and last of all, put in the white of an egg whisked to a solid froth. Line the edges of a dish with puff paste, well butter the inside, pour in the mixture, and bake in a good oven. Before serving, strew a little grated Parmesan cheese over the pudding. Time to bake, half an hour. Probable cost, Is. Sd. Sufficient for four or five persons. Cheese Ramequins.—Mix two ounces of flour very smootlily with a cupful of water, and put it, with a little salt and pepper, and a piece of butter about the size of an egg, into a saucepan. Let it boil for threo or four minutes, then stir in four ounces of fine Cheshire cheese crumbled; let it boil another minute, and add three eggs wcU-beaten; put them in gradually, stirring all the time. Have ready a well-oiled baking-tin, and dropCHE ( no ) CHE this mixture upon it, in lumps about the size of a small apple. Press them slightly in the centre, brush them over with egg, and put a tea-spoonful of Gruy^re cheese in small pieces iu the middle. Bake in a hot oven, and serve as hot as possible. If preferred Parmesan cheese may be used instead of Cheshire. Time to bake, about twelve minutes. Sufficient for foiu- or five ramequins. Probable cost, Is. Cheese Ramequins (another way).— Crumble a small stale roll, and cover it with a breakfast-cupful of new milk boiling; let it soak for a quarter of an hour, then strain it, and put it in a mortar with four ounces of Par- mesan cheese and four ounces of Cheshire cheese, both grated, four oimces of fresh butter, half a tea-spoonful of made mustard, a little salt and pepper, half a tea-spoonful of sifted sugar, and a small quantity of pounded mace. Pound these ingredients well together with the yolks of four eggs. Have ready some small moulds. Just before they are ready to bake, add the whites of the eggs beaten to a solid froth. Little paper trays may be used to bake the ramequins in. Bather more than half fill them, and bake in a quick oven. Serve as hot as possible. Time to bake, from ten to fifteen minutes. Probable cost. Is. 3d. Sufficient for twelve cakes. Cheese Sandwich..—Put three ounces of good rich cheese, cut into small pieces, into a mortar with an ounce of butter, a tea-spoonful of made mustard, and two boned anchovies. Povmd these ingredients to a smooth paste, spread this between two slices of brown bread and butter, and lay over it very thin slices of salt beef, ham, or tongue. Cut the sandwiches into pretty shapes, and arrange them on a napkin garnished with bunches of green parsley. Time, half an hour to prepare. Sufficient, allow one sandwich for each person. Probable cost, 2d. each. Cheese Soup, without Meat.—Grate very finely half a pound of rather diy Gruydre or any other light-coloured cheese; strew a layer of it at the bottom of the soup tureen, and over tliis place two or three very thin slices of the stale crumb of bread. Repeat this until aU the cheese is used, when one-fourth of the depth of the tureen should be occupied. Put a piece of fresh butter about the size of an egg into a saucepan; let it melt, and stir into it, very smoothly, a table-spoonful of flour, and let it remain on the fire, stining it constantly, until it browns; then throw in two table-spoonfuls of finely-minced onions. When they are browned, stir in gradually, a quart of water, let it. boil, season with pepper and salt, and just before pouring it into the tureen, brown it with a little caramel {see Caramel). Let the soup stand a couple of minutes before the fire to soak the bread and cheese, and when that is done, serve at once. The.contents of the tureen should not be disturbed till it appears on the table. Time, one hour. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Cheese, Stewed.—This is a good way to uso cheese which has become too dry to serve in the ordinarj- manner. Of course fresh cheese is to be preferred. Put two ounces of good double Glo'ster or Cheshire cheese, chopped small, into a saucepan, with half an ounce of butter, or more if the cheese is very dry. Add sufficient cream or new milk to cover it, and let it simmer gently, stirring it every now and then, until the cheese is dissolved. Take it from the fire for a minute or two, and mix in very gradually a weU-beaten egg. Serve it on a hot dish, and stick little three-cornered sippets of toasted bread in it. Serve as hot as possible. Time to stew, ten or fifteen minutes. Probable cost, if made with milk, 6d. Sufficient for four persons. Cheese, Stewed (another way). —Pro- ceed exactly as above, but instead of covering the sliced cheese in the saucepan with new milk, cover it with ale, porter, or port, and flavour it with mixed mustard and cayenne. Serve as hot as possible. Time to stew the cheese, ten or fifteen minutes. Probable cost, 4d., exclusive of the ale or wine. Sufficient for four persons. Cheese, Stilton. — This cheese is con- sidered by competent judges to be preferable to any other. It should be kept about twelve months in order to ripen it, and many persons endeavour to accelerate this by scooping out a little cheese in three or four places and pouring good port or old ale into it, then stopping the holes again with the cheese, and allowing it to remain two or three weeks. When the cheese is ready to serve, the rind should be cut from the top in a slice about a quarter of an inch in thickness, to be used as a lid, and this should be replaced on the top of the cheese when it is sent from the table. It should be kept closely covered in a rather damp place. It should be served with a clean napkin neatly pinned round it. Prob^le cost. Is. 8d. to 28. per pound. Cheese Straws. — Mix two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, two ounces of fresh butter, two ounces of flour, an ounce of Cheddar cheese, and the yolk of an egg into a stiii paste. Flavour the mixture with cayenne, salt, and a very little pounded mace. RoU this out rather thinly, cut it into fingers about four inches long and half an inch wide, bake them for a few minutes in a quick oven, and serve cold. They should be piled on a dish in transverse rows. Probable cost, 5d. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Cheese, Toasted.—Slice some good, rich cheese. Put it in a cheese-toaster on a hot plate, and when it is melted, stir into it some made mustard and pepper. A little port or beer is sometimes added, an-d if the cheese is at all dry a little butter should be also used. Toast should be served with it. This dish is worth nothing at aU unless it can be served quite hot. Toasted cheese is sometimes sent to table in little tins with boiling water underneath, and this is an excellent way to keep the toast hot. A few minutes wiU be sufficient to melt the cheese. Cheese, Toasted (another way).—Cut some slices of the crumb of bread about half an inch thick. Toast and butter them well on bothCHE ( 120 ) • CHE mdes. riaeo on tlio toast a luyor of cold roast beef, flavoured with mustard and Jiorso-radish. Over this spread some hot toasted cheoso," thoroughly siiturated with porter and flavoured with black pepper, salt, and shallot vinegar. This dish, which seems to our modem idea rather indigestible than otherwise, was a fa- voui-ito supper with our ancestors. 'Vime, a few niinutes to toast the cheese. Sufficient, a slice for each person. Probable cost, 2d. per slice, exclusive of the cold meat. Cheese, Toasted, or Welsh Eare- blt.—Cut some slices of tlio crumb of bread about half an inch in thickness, and toast them lightly on both sides. Lay on them some slices of good, rich cheese, and put them in a cheese- toaster till the cheese is melted. Spread a little made mustard and pepper over them, and serve on very hot plates. It is most desirable to send this dish to table quite hot, as without this it is entirely worthless. Cheese, to Keep.—T\'Tien a whole cheese is cut, and the consumption smaU, it generally becomes dry and, loses its flavour after it has been used a little while. In order to prevent this, a small piece should "be cut for use, and the remainder rubbed with butter, wrapped in a clean, cloth, and placed in a covered jar, which should be kept in a cool and rather damp place. If these directions are attended to, a whole cheese might be purchased at a time, and the goodness preserved until it is finished. This will bo found to be much more economical than buying it in small quantities. Cheese which has become too dry to be presented at table may be used for stewing, or grated for macaroni. The mould which gathers on cheese should be wiped off with a damp cloth. If any mites appear, a little brandy shoidd be poured over the part. Cheese with Macaroni.—Put a quarter of a pound of pipe macaroni into a saucepan with a little salt, and sufficient boiling nulk and water to cover it. Let it boU until it is quite tender but firm, then put a layer of it into a well-buttered dish, and over that sprinkle some bread-crumbs and a mixture of Parmesan and Cheshire cheese. Place three or four lumps of butter on it, and repeat until the dish is full, being careful to have bread-crumbs at the top. Ponr a little butter warmed, but not oiled, over the crumbs, and brown the preparation before a clear fire, or with a salamander, but do not put it in the oven, or it will taste of oil. Serve with salt and mustard. Riband macaroni may be used if preferred, and it will not require so much boiling. It may be boiled in water with- out the milk, and a little butter added instead. Time to boil the macaroni, about one hour and a j half. Probable cost, Is. 8d. Sufficient for four •or five persons. Cheese with Macaroni (another way). —Boil a quarter of a pound of macaroni in milk and water imtil it is tender but firm, then drain it and place it at the bottom of a well-buttered pie-dish. "VNTiisk well the yolks of two eggs, and stir into them a breakfast-cupful of cream and half a cupful of the liquid in which the macaroni was boiled. Stir this gently over the fire until it tluckons, but on no account aUow It to boil. Pour it on tlic macaroni, and simnkle over the top three talihi-spoonfuls of grated cheese. Brown the mixture before a clear fire or with a salamander, and serve. Time to boil the macaroni, one Jiour and a half. Probaljle cost. Is. 8d. Sufficient fur four or five personu. Cheese with Macaroni (another way). —Droi) a quarter of a p.jund of macaroni in some boiling milk and water, and let it simmer gently until it is quite tender but firm. Put four ounces of grated cheese in a breakfast- cupful of boiled cream or new milk, and place the mixture in a saucepan with a blade of mace, throe or four gi-ains of cavenne, a piece of butter, and a little salt. The cheese must be quite free from rind, and should be stirred constantly imtil it is quite melted, and we M-ould recommend a mixture of cheeses, as Parmesan, if used by itself, soon gets lumpy. WTien it is dissolved, add the boiled macaroni to it, first putting it in a sieve for two or three minutes to drain. Let it simmer for a few minutes longer, then put it into a dish, strew over it some finely-grated bread-crumbs, and brown in a hot oven, or with a salamander. Good white sauce may be substituted for the cream. Time, one hour and a half to boil the macaroni. Sufficient for four or five persons. Probable cost. Is. 2d. Cheesecakes.—Beat the yolks of four and the whites of two eggs sei^arately; the whites must be beaten to a solid froth. Rub the rind of a lemon ujion a quarter of a poimd of loaf sugar; then pound it, and mix it with the eggs. Add a quarter of a pound of fresh butter melted, and the juice of two lemons. When these are well beaten together, put the mixture into a large jar, which should be jilaced in a pan of boiling water on the fire. Stir it constantly until it thickens. Line some tartlet tins with a good light crust, and fill them three parts with the mixture. When nearly baked, take them out of the oven for a minute, brush them over with white of egg, and sift a little pounded sugar over them, and put them back into the oven to brown. Time to bake, twenty minutes. Probable cost, lid. each. Sufficient for two dozen cheesecakes. Cheesecakes, AlrDond.—Bknch and pound a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds and four or five bitter ones ; add a quarter of a pound of finely-sifted sugar, a quarter of a poimd of butter, the thin rind of a lemon minced as finely as possible, the juice of half a lemon, and a table-spoonful of sherry or brandy. Line tartlet tins with good puft' paste, and just before filling them, add the yolks of four and the whites of two eggs. Bake in a quick oven. Time to bake, fifteen or twenty minutes. Pro- bable cost, 2d. each. Sufficient for two dozen cheesecakes (see Almond Cheesecakes). Cheesecakes, Apple. — Grate half a pound of apples, weighed after they are pared and cored, add the rind of two lemons grated, half a pound of melted butter, half a poimd of finely-sifted sugar, and the well-beaten yolks of six eggs. Lino the tartlet tins, three parts fill them with the mixture, and bake in a( 121 ) CHE CHE quick oven. Time to bake, fifteen or twenty minutos. Probable cost, 2d. each. Sufficient for three dozen cheesecakes {tiee Apple Cheesecakes). Cheesecakes, Bread.—Pour a breakfast- cupful of boiling niilk over eight ounces of finely-grated bread-crumbs, and when they have soaked a little while, beat them up with thrae ounces of butter, melted. When quite cold, add three ounces of finely-sifted sugar, thi-ee ounces of currants, stoned and dried, and half a small nutmeg grated. Last of all add the yolks of four and the whites of three eggs, beaten with a table-spoonful of brandy. Line the tartlet tins with a good light crust. Kather more than half fill them with the mixture, and bake in a quick oven for fifteen or twenty minutes. Probable cost, l^d. each. Sufficient for thi-eo dozen cheesecakes. Cheesecakes, Home-made.—Put four well-beaten eggs into a saucepan containing a pint of boiling milk, and let it remain on the fire until it curdles. Pour off the whey, and put the curd on an inverted sieve to drain. "SVhen it is quite drj', add two table-spoonfuls of sugar, a little salt, six ounces of carefully-washed cur- rants, a piece of butter about the size of an egg, melted, two spoonfuls of rose-water or cream, and half a tea-spoonful of pounded cinnamon. Line the tartlet tins with good pufl^ paste, three parts fill them with the mixture, and bake them in a good oven. If a little vinegar or lemon- juice is mixed with jnilk, then placed on the fire, it will curdle. Time to bake, twenty minutes. Probable cost, Id. each. Sufficient for two dozen cheesecakes. Cheesecakes, Home-made (another way).—Mix three heaped table - spoonfuls of ground rice with six of good milk till the paste is quite smooth, then pour on it gradually, stir- ring all the time, a pint of boiling milk. Put it on the fire, and let it simmer till it thickens, then add three table-spoonfuls of sugar, half a tea-spoonful of ground cinnamon, a little grated lemon-rind, and three ounces of butter. Mix these well together, pour the mixture into a basin, and when cool, stir in four eggs beaten up with a table-spoonful of brandy. Line the tartlet tins with a good light crust, three-parts fill them with the mixture, and bake them in a quick oven. Time to bake, twenty minutes. Probable cost, Id. each. Sufficient for four dozen cheesecakes. Cheesecakes, Lemon.—Rub the peel of two large lemons with half a pound of loaf sugar. Whisk six eggs thoroughly, add the sugar pounded, and the juice of one lemon. Melt half a pound of butter in a saucepan, with five table-spoonfuls of cream, add the other in- gredients, and stir the mLxture over the fire until it begins to thicken. When cold, fill the tartlet tins, previously lined with good puff paste, a little more than half full, and bake them in a quick oven for fifteen or twenty minutes. Probable cost, 2d. each. Sufficient for four dozen cheesecakes. Cheesecakes, Orange. — Proceed in the same way as for Lemon Cheesecakes, substituting orange-rind .and orange-juice for lemon-rind and lemon-juice. Time to bake, twenty minutes. Probable cost, 2d. each. Sufficient for four dozen cheesecakes. Cheesecakes, Potato.—Grate the thin rind of two lemons, then pound them well with two table-spoonfuls of finely-sifted sugar, and three ounces of potato which has been boiled until it has become floury. Stir a couple of ounces of clarified butter in with the mixture, and when smooth add the yolks of two and the white of one egg. Line the tartlet tins with a light crust, rather more than half fill them, and bake in a quick oven. Time to bake, twenty ; minutes. Probable cost, Id. each. Sufficient for a dozen and a half cheesecakes. Cheesecakes, Savoury.—Mix tho- roughly a pint of well-drained curd, three ounces of butter, and the yolks of six, and the whites of two eggs well beaten. Rub them through a coarse sieve, and add a quarter of 3 pound of grated Parmesan, and a little salt and pepper. If preferred, the curd may be omitted, and a little cream substituted. Of course, in that case, there would be no necessity to rub the mixture through a sieve. Line some tartlet tins with good crust, fill them three-parts with the mixture, and bake in a good oven for about twenty minutes. Probable cost, l^d. each. Sufficient for four dozen cheesecakes. Cheesecakes, Winter. — A curd for cheesecakes may be made by mixing as much grated biscuit with five eggs and a pint of cream as will make a light batter; sugar and flavouring should be added. To make the paste, mix a pound of flour, a table-spoonful of baking powder, and salt, with the whisked whites of two eggs. Divide half a pound of butter into three parts, roll out the pastry three times, and each time spread one part of the butter upon it, flour lightly, and make up as usual. Cheltenham Pudding. — Shred six ounces of suet very finely, add six ounces of flour, a pinch of salt, and a heaped tea-spoonful of baking powder, two ounces of bread-crumbs, three ounces of raisins, three ounces of currants, two table-spoonfuls of sugar, and half a nutmeg grated. _ Mix these ingredients weU together, and stir into the mixture two weU-beaten eggs and sufficient new milk to make it into a stiff smooth batter. Pour it into a buttered dish and bake in a good oven. Turn it out when suffi- ciently cooked, and serve with brandied sauce. Time to bake, one hour and a half. Sufficient for five or six persons. Probable cost, lOd. Cherokee, or Store Sauce.—Put a pint of the best vinegar into a large bottle with half an ounce of cayenne, two cloves of garlic finely minced, two table-spoonfuls of soy, and four of walnut ketchup. Let these soak for a month, then strain the liquid and put it into small bottles, which must be kept closely corked. Cherries, Candied.—Choose fine, sound, ripe chei-ries, take off the stalks, and wipe them with a soft cloth, then pour over them some syrup boiled ready to candy. Move them gently about, and, when cold, put them in a cool oven for half an hour to dry. Probable cost of cherries, 3d. to 6d. per pound. Half aCHE CHE ( 122 ) pound of chorrios, garnished with louves, will make a Bmall ilisli. Cherries, Candied, with Leaves and Stalks.—Chooso Bound, ripo chorrios, wipo thorn with a Hoft cloth, and loave thu stalk anil two or throo loavoa on thoni. Boil BOinc good vinogiir, and dip oach littlo branch, but not the fruit, into it when boiling; then take it out and Btick it into a piece of cardboard with holes made in it, so that it shall diy equally. Boil a pound of sugar with half a pint of water, remove the scuin, and dip each branch in, and let it remain there for one minute, then dry it aa before. Boil the sugar and water to the point of candying, pour it over the cherries, &c., move them about to insure their being equally covered with the sugar, place them once more in tho card- board, and dry them in a cool oven. They will be found useful for garnishing sweet dishes, and for dessert. Time, about an hour. Pro- bable cost of cherries, 3d. to 6d. per pound. Cherries. Compote of.—Choose large, ripe, light-coloured cherries, wipe them, and leave on them about an inch of stalk, making all uniform. Put half a pound of sugar into a saucepan with a breakfast-cupful of water, and let it boil for ten minutes, then put into it a pound and a half of the chenies, and sim- mer them for three minutes. Dish them with the stalks uppermost. A table-spoonful of brandy may be added to the syrup. Probable cost of cherries, 3d. to 6d. per pound. Suffi- cient for a large dish. Cherries, Compote of (another way). —^Take ofE the stems from Kentish or Morella cherries. Make a syrup witn five ounces of sugar and half a pint of water for the former, but allow another ounce of sugar for the extra acidity of the Morellas. Stew one pound of the fruit in the syrup for twenty minutes ; they may be stoned or not. When tiie Morellas are very ripe, they may be stewed only ten minutes, and will then be excellent. Time: ten minutes to boil sugar; eight to ten minutes Morellas. Probabfe cost of cherries, 3d. to 6d. per pound. Morella cherries are generally rather more expensive. Cherries, Dried.—Stone the cherries carefuUy without spoiling the fruit. This may be done by pushing the stones through the end with a bodkin or silver skewer. Put them into a preserving-pan, and strew amongst them finely-sifted sugar, allowing eight ounces of s^^ax to every pound of fruit. Simmer for S^nutel, Kpour them into a bowl, and eave them 'until £ext day, l^^J^X' be aeain simmered for ten minutes; and tins p?ocfss must be repeated for three days. Dram weU, put them on a sieve or wire tray, so that they do not touch each other, and place this m an oven sufficiently cool to dry without bakmg them. They must be turned about every now and then that they may bo equally dried, it the oven is too hot, their colour ^viU be spoilt. When dried, keep them in tm I'o^^^ writing-paper between each layer, ^^entisn SJrrie^s arc best for this purpose. They wiU Wound useful for garnishing dishes, or for doBsert. Probable cost of tho cherrioB, 3d. to (id. ])L'r pound. Cherries, Dried, without Sugar.— The Keutisli cherries are tho best for this ])Ui'- poHO. Thoy should bo wiped carefully with a Boft dry cloth, to free them from duBt, &c., and the stalks cut into even lengths, then put into a cool oven or in tho sun until thoroughly diied If tho latter plan is adopted, the ditthes on wliich tlioy aro placed should be changed everj' day. Tho etalkB should be put upwards, and tho bruised or decayed fruit removed. When dry, thoy should bo tied in bunches, and kept in a dry place ; and many persouB consider them more refreshing and agreeable than when dried with sugar, the acidity of the fruit remaining to a greater degree. In the winter time they may be prepared for dessert in tlio same way aa Normandy pippins. Probable cost, 3d. to 6d. per poimd. Cherries, Frosted.—Choose large, ripe, sound cherries. Wipo them with a dry Boft cloth, and dip them in a Kquid made of the whites of two eggs which have been whisked to a firm froth and mixed with a quarter of a pint of spring water. As the cherries are taken out of the egg, drain them and roll them one by one in finely-sifted sugar. Put some clean writing paper on an inverted sieve, put them on this so that they do not touch one another, and let them dry till wanted. Time, six or eight hours to dry the fruit. Probable cost, 3d. to 6d. per pound. Sufficient, one poimd for a small dessert-dish. Cherries, Kentish, Compote of.— Put a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar into a saucepan with a breakfast-cupful of water, and boil it for ten minutes. Put in half a pound of Kentish cherries, with about an inch of the stalks left on; let them simmer gently for five minutes. Drain them, and put them into a compote dish with the stalks upwards.^ Boil the syrup five minutes longer; when it is cool, pour it over the cherries. Time, twenty minutes. Probable cost of cherries, from 3d. to 6d. per pound. Sufficient for a small dish. Cherries, Morella, Brandied.—The fruit should be freshly gathered, and the largest and best selected. Let each cherry have about an inch of stem left on. Put them mto quart bottles with wide necks, and put four ounces of pounded candy-sugar (the brown is the best) into each bottle. Pour in sufficient best French brandy to fill the bottles, and add a few cherry or apricot kernels, or a smaU pori,ion of cinna- mon, if liked. Time, to infuse, one month. Probable cost, 4s. to 6s. per bottle. Cherries, Morella, To Preserve.- Choose sound ripe Mcrelk chomes, and aUo. one pound and a quarter of «"?*^y' X over^ runful of red or white 'currant ]uice for every ToSnd o1 Serries. Pick -d «tone the ch™, or, if preferred, merely pnck ^^^'^J^.^^le. needle Put the sugar and P"/, serving-pan, and let it boil for ten ^^^^^f- Th^Sf iS the cherries, and «tnmer them gcnU^ imtn they look bright and c ear. TumtJ^c^* into jai^.' Cover with oUed P^P^^V^^J^^J paper dipped in strong gum. Tune to dou,CHE CHE ( 123 ) about lialf an hour. Probable cost of chenies, lOd. per pound. Cherries Preserved in S3n'up.— Choose light, sound, ripe chemes. Komovo tho stones without injui-ing the fruit, which may be done by drawing them out with the staik, or pushing them out at one end with a bodkin or quill. Allow a pint and a half of water and a pound of sugar- for every pound of fruit, weighed after it has been stoned. Put ihe sugar and water into a preserving-pan, and lot it boil for a quai-ter of an houi", skimming it carefully; then throw in the fi-uit, and let it boil for another quarter of an hour. Poiir it with the syrup into a large jar, and let it remain until next day, when the cherries must be put into a sieve to drain, and a pint of white cui-- rant j uice (see Currant Juice) allowed for every four pounds of cherries. The juice and the sjTup must be boiled together fifteen minutes, when the cherries may be put with them and boiled again for four or five minutes. Put the cherries into jars, cover them with the syrup, lay brandy papers on the top, and tie them down closely. It wiU be more economical in small families to put the preserve into one- pound pots, as there is an amount of evapora- tion in larger jars, which makes a considerable difference in the expense. Probable cost of cherries, 3d. to 6d. per pound. Cherries, To Bottle. —Have ready some wide-mouthed bottles, such as are gener- ally used for bottling fruit, and ascertain that they are quite dry. Cut the stalks from the cherries—do not pull them out—put the fruit into the bottles, shake them down, and put two table-spoonfuls of finely-sifted loaf sugar at the top of every bottle. Cork them closely, and tie them down; put them into a large pan of cold water, bring it to a boU, let it stand on tho hob for five minutes, then lift the boiler from the fire, and let the bottles remain in it untU the water is cold. The juice of the fruit ought to cover it. The corks must be looked after when the fruit has been scalded, and re- i fitted if necessarj'. When the fruit comes to be used, the juice ought to be strained ofE, and boiled with a little sugar, and, when cold, put into the tarts instead of water. Time, about an hour. Probable cost of cherries, 3d. to 6d. per pound. Cherries, To Pickle.—Choose sound, not over-ripe Kentish cherries, wipe them care- fully, and put them into jars, leaving about an inch of their stalks. Boil sufficient French vinegar to cover them, and boil one pound of sugar and a few grains of cayenne with every quart of vinegar. When cold, add a few drops of cochineal, and cover the cherries. Tie them down closely. They AviU be ready for use in three or four weeks. Probable cost of cherries, 3d. to 6d. per pound. Cherries, To Preserve.—Take two pounds of sound, ripe Kentish cherries, weighed after they have been picked and stoned. Put a pound of sifted sugar into the preserving- pan with half a pint of red currant juice, or, if this is not at hand, water, and let it boil for five minutes. Throw in the cherries, which ought not to have been injured in the stoning, and let them boil for ten minutes, stirring them only just enough to keep them from burning, as it is very desirable not to break them. Poui* all together into a bowl, and let it remain until next day, then drain the fruit, boil the syrup with eight ounces more sugai-, and boil the cherries in it again for another ten minutes. Put the preserve in jars, and cover closely, as usual. In the preparation of cherries for pre- serving, it is necessary that the greatest care should be observed. The slightest deviation from the instructions given here will make the cherries unpalatable. Cherries, To Preserve (another way). —Choose sound, ripe cherries (May Dukes or Kentish cherries will be the best for the pur- pose), stone them, and after stoning take half their weight in sugar, and half a pint of water for each pound of sugar. Boil the sugar and water together to make a clear syrup, put in the fruit, and let it boil for eight minutes, being careful not to break the fruit when stirring it. Pour it into a bowl, and leave it for twenty-four hours. Strain off the fruit, and boil the syrup again with the addition of one half the original weight in sugar. Again put in the fruit, and boil for eight minutes more. When the pre- serve is cold turn it into jars, and cover it in the usual way. Cherry Brandy (to be made in July or August).—The Morella cherry is gener- ally used for this purpose, on account of its peculiar acidity. It ripens later than other cherries, and is more expensive. It is seldom, used as a dessert fruit; nevertheless, if allowed to hang until fully ripe, it is very refreshing and agreeable to many palates. The cherries for brandy should be gathered in dry weather, and must be used when fresh. They ought not to be over ripe. Wipe each one with a soft cloth, and cut the stalks, leaving them aboui; half an inch in length. A little more than half fill wide-necked bottles such as are used for bottling fruit. Allow three ounces of pounded sugar with each pound of fruit, which must be placed in with it. FUl the bottles with the best French brandy. Do not make the mistake of supposing that the fruit and sugar will make bad spirit pass for good. Cork the bottles se- curely, and seal over the top. The cherries may be used in a month, but will be better in two. Three or four cloves put in the bottle are by many considered an improvement. Probable cost of Morella cherries, lOd. to Is. per pound. Cherry Brandy (another way).—Choose sound, fresh Morella cherries, wipe them, and cut off the stalks to within half an inch, prick each cherry with a needle, hsdf fill a wide- necked bottle with them, and to each bottle put a dozen scraped bitter almonds and a quarter of a pound of white sugar candy crushed small. FUl with best French brandy, cork securely, and seal over the top. The brandy wiU be better if kept for a few months. Probable cost of cherries, lOd. to Is. per pound. Cherry Brandy (another way). — Put six pounds of black cherries, six pounds of Morellas, and two pounds of strawberries in aCHE ( 124 ) CHE cask. Bruise them slightly with a stick, then add tlireo pouadH of sugar, twolvo cloves, half uu ouuco of powdorod ciuuamou, and two nutinogs grated, with a quarter of the kernels of the chorry-stonos, and a handful of mint and halm. Pour over those six quarts of brandy or gin. Let the cask remain open for ton days, tlion close it, and in two months it will be tit for use. Probable cost, Morella cherries, lOd. to Is. per pound. Sufficient for one gallon and a half of clierry brandy. Cherry Cheese.—Take some sound, ripe Kentish cherries stoned or not as preferred; put them into a stone jar, cover it closely, and place this in a saucepan of boiling water, and let it simmer gently until the fruit is quite soft. When the cherries are sufficiently tender, take them from the fire, skin and stone them, and add half a pound of finely-sifted sugar to every pound of fruit. Add a few of the kernels blanched. Put the mixture into a pro- serving-pan, and boil it gently stirring it all the time, until the fruit is so dry that it will not adhere to the finger when touched, and is quite clear. Press it quickly into shallow jars which have been damped with brandy. Cover closely, and keep in a dry place. Time, two hours. Probable cost, 6d. to 8d. per pound. Cherry Drink.—^Wash and stone half a pound of sound ripe cherries, bruise and pour over them a pint of boiling water, and add a piece of thin lemon-rind, or, if preferred, a few of the kernels bruised. Let them soak for four or five hours, then strain and sweeten the liquid with two ounces of sifted loaf sugar, and, if liked, add a dessert-spoonful of brandy. This is a refreshing beverage in hot weather. Probable cost, 3d., exclusive of the brandy. Sufficient for one person. Cherry Jam.—Choose sound, ripe Kentish cherries, remove the stones, and boil the kernels in a little water to draw out the flavour; this will impart a very agreeable flavour to the jam. Weigh the fruit, after stoning it, and allow one poimd of sifted sugar to one pound of fruit. Put the sugar into a preserving-pan with a cupful of the water in which the kernels were boUed to each two pounds of fruit, making up the measure with water, or red currant jiuce. Boil to a syrup, then add the fruit and boil it very quickly imtil it is on the point of jeUj-ing. Pour it into jars, cover it with brandied paper, and put over this paper dipped in gum. Time to boil the sugar and water or juice to a sjTup, about ten minutes; the syrup and fruit to the point of jellying, about forty minutes. Pro- bable cost, 8d. or 9d. per pound. Cherry Paste. — Cherry paste is made in much the same way as cherrj' cheese, except that the fruit is boiled nearly dr>' before the sugar is added, and then that the weight of the pulp is taken in sugar, and boiled -with it until the fruit leaves the pan entirely, and adheres to the spoon. It is then pressed into moulds, and kept like other dried fruits. It should not be covered up until it is quite dry. Probable cost of cherries, 3d. to 6d. per lb. Cherry Pie.—Black cherries are generally considered beat for pies. Wash and pick the fruit, and place it in a pie-dish, piling it high in the middle ; strew a httle sugar over it, and cover it with a good light crust. Bake in a good oven for about threu-quailers of an hour, l^robablo cost of clierrii.-s, 3d. to 6d. per pound. A pie made with two pounds of fruit will be sufficient for four or five persons. Cherry Pudding, Baked.—Wash and stone the clierries, put a layer of them at the bottom of a well-buttered pie-dish, and strew over this a Uttlo sifted sugar and a small quantity of finely-chopped lemon-rind; layover those some thin bread and ljutter, and repoat the layers until the dish is full, finishing with chen-ies strewn over with sugar; pour a large cupful of water over the whole, and bake in a good oven. This pudding may be made with dried or preserved cherries, when, instead of water, a little custard may l)e used to moisten the bread. The kernels of the cherries, too, may be blanched and sliced, and used instead of lemon-rind. Time to bake, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost of cherries, 3d. to 6d. per pound. A pudding made with two poimds of cherries will ser^^e for five or six persons. Cherry Pudding, Boiled.—Make some good suet crust, line a plain, roimd buttered basin with it, leaving a little over the rim; fill it with cherries, washed and picked, add a little sugar and some finely-chopped lemon-rind, wet the edges of the paste, lay a cover over the pudding, and press the edges closely round. Tie a floured cloth over the pudding, and plunge it into a saucepan of boiling water, which must be kept boiling, or the pudding will become heavy. Before turning it out, dip the basin into cold water for a moment. Serve with sifted sugar. A smaU pudding wiU require about two hours to boil. If the cherries are not fully ripe, a longer time must be allowed. Probable cost of cherries, 3d. to 6d. per pound. Sufficient for four or five persons. Cherry Sauce.—Take one poimd of soimd, ripe cheiTies, wash and stone them. Blanch the kernels, and put them in a saucepan, with just enough water to cover them, and let them simmer gently untU the flavour is thoroughly extracted Put the cherries into a saucepan with a pint of water, a glass of port, four cloves, a slice of bread toasted, and a little sugar. Let these stew gently until the fruit is quite soft, then press the whole thi-ough a sieve, add the liquid from the kernels, boil up once more, and serve. Time, three-quarters of an hour. Pro- bable cost, cherries, 3d. to 6d. per pound. Sufficient for a pint of sauce. Cherry Sauce, for Sweet Puddings. —Pick and stone a pound of chemes, and pound the kernels to a paste. Mix a tea- spoonful of arroA^TOot smoothly with a little cold milk, and pour over it half a pint of boil- ing milk. Boil it for two or three minutes, then stir into it the cherries and the kernels, a tea- spoonful of minced lemon-rind, half a nutmeg grated, a table-spoonful of sugar, and a wine- glassful of port. Let these simmer gently until the cherries are quite cooked; press them tlirougli a coarse sieve, boil the sauce again for two or three minutes, and serve it very hot. Good( 125 ) CHE CHE melted butter may be substituted for the arrow- root, if preferred, and when fresh cherries are not in season, cherry jam may be used. Ihe sauce ought to be as thick as custard and the colour of the cherries. It is very mce for boiled or baked egg puddings. Tmie, about half an hour. Probable cost, 8d., exclusive of the wine. This quantity wiU suffice for a moderate-sized pudding. Cherry Soup, German.—In German bills of fare sweet soups are frequent, and are liked by some persons very much. Put a piece of butter the size of a large egg into a sauce- pan, let it melt, then mix with it a table-spoon- ful of flour, and stir smoothly until it is lightly browned. Add gradually two pints of water, a pound of black cherries, picked and washed, and a few cloves. Let these boil until the fruit is quite tender, then press the whole through a sieve. After straining, add a little port, half a tea-spoonful of the kernels blanched and bruised, a table-spoonful of sugar, and a few whole cherries. Let the soup boil again until the cherries are tender, and pour aU into a tureen over toasted sippets, sponge-cakes, or macaroons. Time, one hour and a half. Pro- bable cost, cherries, 3d. to 6d. per pound. Suffi- cient for three or four persons. Cherry Tart.—Line the edges of a deep pie-dish with a good short crust. Fill it with cherries, picked and washed, put a cup or small jeUy pot in the middle of the dish, strew a little sugar over, and a few red currants if they can be got, as they wiU considerably improve the flavour of the tart. Cover the dish with a crust, and ornament the edges. Brush the tart all over with cold water, and sprinkle white sugar upon it. Bake in a good oven. Time to bake, thirty to forty minutes. Probable cost of a medium- sized tart, lOd. Sufficient for five or six persons. Cherry-water Ice.—Boil a pound of sugar with a pint and a half of water, remove the scum as it rises; when it is clear, pour it into a large jug containing one pound of Kentish cherries bruised, a few of the kernels, blanched, and pounded in a mortar, the juice of two lemons, and a glass of noyeau. Let these soak: strain, add a few drops of cochineal, and freeze. Imbed in the ice till wanted. Probable cost, 9d. for this quantity, exclusive of the noyeau. Sufficient for one quart of ice. Cherry-water Ice (another way).—Pick the stalks from one pound of ripe cherries, and crush them in a mortar to make the juice flow, adding a pint of clarified sugar and half a pint of water. Flavour with noyeau or vanilla, and squeeze in the juice of two lemons; add a few drops of cochineal if required, strain the liquid, and freeze. The kernels should be pounded with the fruit. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for one quart of ice. CherviL—Chervil is fit for drying in May, June, and July. Its leaves are tender and delicious, combining the flavoiu- of parsley and fennel, though more aromatic than either. It may be used in salads, and for sauces, and also bo prepared in the same way as parsley. It must not be forgotten that the root is poisonous. Cheshire Cream.—Put the thin rind of a small lemon into a breakfast-cupful of thick cream. Let it remain for an hour or more, then take it out, and add a small tea-spoonful of lemon-juice, a dessert-spoonful of sugar, and a glass of sherry. Whisk these thoroughly, and place the froth, as it is made, on a sieve to drain, and let it remain five or six hours. When ready to serve, put it on a glass dish, with a border of macaroons or cocoa-nut bis- cuits round it. Probable cost, Is. lOd., exclusive of the sherry. Sufficient for a small supper- dish. Chester Buns.—Rub two ounces of butter into one poimd of fine floar, add a pinch of salt and one table-spoonful of sugar. Stir into these an egg, a table-spoonful of yeast, and a breakfast-cupful of lukewarm milk. Knead well, and put the bowl which contains the dough before the fire to rise, covering it with a cloth. When it has sufficiently risen, divide it into six or eight parts, shape into rounds, place them on a buttered tin, and let them rise five minutes more, then bake in a quick oven. Time to bake, about twenty minutes. Probable cost, for this quantity, 6d. Sufficient for six or eight buns. Chester Pudding.—Whisk the yolks of two eggs, and mix them with a table-spoonful of finely-sifted sugar, half a dozen sweet and half a dozen bitter almonds, blanched and pounded, the finely-minced rind and juice of half a lemon, and a piece of butter about the size of an egg. Stir these over a moderate fire for a few minutes, then pour the mixture into a small buttered pie-dish lined with good pufi paste. Put it into the oven, and, while it is baking, whisk the unused whites of the eggs to a firm froth. When the pudding is very nearly ready, cover it with the froth, sift sugar thickly over it, and stiffen it a few minutes in the oven. Time to bake, twentj' minutes; five minutes to set the white of egg. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for one person. Chestnut Forcemeat, for Boast Fowl.—Iloast and peel a dozen large chest- nuts ; boil them for about twenty minutes in some strong veal gravy, drain, and, when cold, put them into a mortar, blanch and mince them, with the liver of the fowl, a tea-spoonful of grated ham, a tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea- spoonful of pepper, a tea-spoonful of chopped onions, a small pinch of grated lemon-rind, three grains of cayenne, two table-spoonfuls of bread- crumbs, a piece of butter the size of a walnut, and the yolks of two eggs. Pound the dry ingredients in a mortar, and moisten them with the butter and eggs. This forcemeat is excellent for a large fowl. Time to prepare, about twenty minutes. Probable cost of chestnuts, 2d. or 3d. per pint. This quantity wiU serve for one large fowl. Chestnut Pudding.—Take some chest- nuts, and make a little incision in the skin of each one, throw them into boiling water, and let them remain until tender. Remove the shells and skins, dry them in the oven, and afterwards pound thorn to powder. IMix half a pound of this powder vntli six ounces of butter . beaten to a cream, two table-spoonfuls of sitteclCHE CHE C 126 ) sugar, two or throo drops of the osBoueo of vunilla, a broakfast-cupful of milk, and six woll- beaten oggs. Stir these well together, thou pour the mixture into a well-buttered mould, place a i^ioco of buttered writing paper over the top, and steam for an hour and a half, or, if profoiTod, bake in a good oven. Serve with wine sauco. Probable cost. Is. 3d. Sufficient for four or live persons. Chestnut Sauce, Brown.—Prepare the chestnuts as in the following recipe, but instead of adding cream or milk to the paste, mix them with a little good brown gravy, and season the sauce rather highly. Time to roast the chest- nuts accordmg to the quality. Probable cost, 2d or 3d. per pmt. Sufficient for one roast fowl. Chestnut Sauce, White—Roast a dozen chestnuts until quite tender, then remove the brown rind and the skin under it, and put them into a mortar with a tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of pepper, half a tea-spoonful of sifted sugar, and a piece of butter about the size of a walnut. Pound these together to a smooth paste, which must be put into a sauce- pan, and mixed with a breakfast-cupful of milk or cream; stir the liquid till it boils. This sauce is excellent for boiled fowls. Time to roast the chestnuts, varying with the quality. Probable cost, 2d. or 3d. per pint, if made with milk. Sufficient for one fowl. Chestnut Soup.—Take off the outer rind from fifty chestnuts, and put them into a saucepan of cold water. Place them on the fire, and when, the water is just upon the point of boiling, take them out and remove the under skin. Stew them in sufficient stock to cover them until quite tender; put them in a mor- tar, and pound them to a paste, reserving a dozen to be placed whole in the soup just before it is dished. Pound with the paste two table- spoonfuls of bread-crumbs, two tea-spoonfuls of salt, half a tea-spoonful of pepper, and half a nutmeg grated. Mix with it very gradually the stock in which the chestnuts were boiled, if its sweetness is not objected to, allowing a quart of the mixture and a pint of mUk to every quart of stock. Boil all together once more, with the chestnuts which were reserved, and if the soup is too thick, add a little more stock. Be- fore serving, place some fried sippets in the tureen. The stock may be either made from meat or from vegetables alone. Time, two and a half hom-s. Sufficient for eight or nine per- sons. Probable cost, exclusive of the stock, lOd. per quart. Chestnuts, Compote of.—Take thirty large chestnuts, peel off the outer brown skin, and put them into a saucepan of cold water. When the water is just on the point of boiling, take them off, remove the second sidn, and be careful not to break the chestnuts. Make a syrup with a breakfast-cupful of water and a quarter of a pound of sugar, adding a glass of sherry and the rind of half an orange or a lemon cut very thin. Put the chestnuts into this, and lot them simmer gently for twenty minutes. Strain the syrup over the chestnuts, and servo hot. Sift a little sugar over them. Time, about forty minutes. Probable cost, chestnuts. 3d. or 4d. per ],int. Tlio above quantity will nuiko a modomte-sized dish. Chestnuts, Pur6e of.—Take fifty We cheHtnutH—those uro tlie best which have no division, and, wlion tlie skin is removed, are entire. Take oft the outer brown skin, and boil the chestnuts until the inner skin will (X)me off easily, wlien it also must be removed Having done tliis, put the chestnuts into a saucepan witli sufficient white stock to cover them, and boil them gently until they are quite soft, ^vhen they must be pressed, while hot tlu-ough a wire sieve. The pulp must then oo put into a stewpan, with a piece of butter about the size of a walnut, a cupful of cream or new milk, half a cupful of the stock in which they were simmered, and a little salt, pepper, and sugar. Stir this over the fire until quite hot, when it may be placed in the middle of a dish of cutlets. Time, two hours. Probable cost of chestnuts, 3d. or 4d. per pint. Sufficient for four or five persons. Chestnuts, Roasted for Dessert.— Cut a little piece of the outer shell off each chestnut; this is to prevent them bursting when hot. Bon them for about ten minutes; do not allow them to cool, but put them into a tin in the oven, or into a Dutch oven before the fire, and let them remain until they are quite soft. Fold them in a napkin, and serve quite hot. Salt should be eaten with them. Time to bake, about ten minutes. Probable cost of chestnuts, 3d. or 4d. per pint. Sufficient, one pint for foui or five persons. Chestnuts, Stewed (to be served as a vegetable).—Remove the outer rind from sound chestnuts, then fry them in a little butter, when the inner skin may easily be freed from them. Put them into a saucepan with some good stock, and boil them until they are tender but unbroken. The chestnuts should be removed from the gravj-- as soon as they are cooked, and served in a tureen, with a little white sauce poured over them. Time to boil the chestnuts, one hour and a half. Probable cost, 3d. or 4d. per pint. Sufficient, one quart for a tureenful. Chetney, or Chutnee Sauce.—This is an Indian preparation, and a dozen diEPerent recipes might "be given for it. It cannot how- ever be prepared in England to resemble ex- actly that which is made in the East, as, of course the fresh fruits requisite for it cannot be obtained. It may be bought'at the ItaUan warehouses; but, imtil we can be quite secure from adulteration, pickles and store sauces are better made at home. Some sort of acid fruit is indispensable for it. Mangoes are used in India, but here green gooseberries, tomatoes, and sour apples must be used. jPut into a marble mortar four ounces of salt, four ounces of raisins, stoned and minced very finely, throe ounces of onions, and three ounces of garlic, also finely minced, two ounces of mustard-seed well bruised, and half an ounce of cSiycnno pepper. Pound those well, then mix vnth thorn very gradually fourteen ounces of sour apples, weighed after they have hcen pared and cored, and boiled with one pint of strong bro\\'n vinegar and four oimces of sugar. Mix the( 127 ) CHI OHI inffredients thoroughly, hottle the preparation, and cork tightly. The longer this sauce is kept the better it wiU bo. Time to prepare, about one hour and a half. Probable cost, Is. 3d per pint. It is used like mustard with cold meat, and for sauces and gravies. Chichester Pudding.—Rub the rind of half a lemon upon a quai-ter of a pound ot loal sugar, powder this, and mix it with a crumbled roll, and a quarter of a pound of butter. Add the well-beaten yolks of four eggs, and a des- sert-spoonful of lemon-juice. After mixing the ingredients thoroughly, add the whites of two of°the eggs beaten to a firm froth. Stir the mixture over the fire to a thin batter, then pour it into a well-buttered pie-dish, and bake in a good oven. Time to bake, about half an hour. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for three persons. Chicken, The.—Those chickens are the best which have small bones, short legs, and clean, white-looking flesh. Chickens with white legs should be boiled, those with black legs roasted. The flesh of chickens is generally con- sidered more digestible than any other animal food. These birds are cheapest in November. Spring chickens are to be obtained in April. It is better to kill them one or two days before they are dressed. Chickens are always better for being singed, as it gives firmness to the flesh. Chicken (a la Creci).—Cut half a pound of bacon into dice, and fry these lightly, then put them into a saucepan, and with them twelve shallots, twelve button mushrooms, two large carrots cut into pieces the size and shape of a walnut, and twelve chestnuts roasted and peeled. Let these be already dressed when they are put into the saucepan. Add the flesh of a chicken cut into fillets, cover it with good brown gravy, and stew it gently for a quarter of an hour, when a tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of pepper, a blade of mace pounded, and a glass of Madeira, or any white wine, may be added. Simmer for five minutes longer, take out the chicken, and place it on a dish; if necessary, thicken the gravy a little, then pour it over the meat. Place the chestnuts, carrots, &c., round it, together with a few mushrooms. Garnish the dish with toasted sippets. Pro- bable cost, chicken, 28.6d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Chicken (M'Estragon).—Put some tarra- gon leaves in hot water, dry them, and chop them small; make a forcemeat by mincing the chicken's liver, and mixing with it an equal quantity of bacon, a little of the chopped tarragon, some nutmeg, salt, and pepper ; stuff the bird with this, cover it with slices of bacon, tie over it some sheets of buttered paper, and roast it before a clear fire. Boil some nicely- flavoured stock with the remainder of the tarragon leaves, thicken it with a little brown thickening, or with flour and butter, and add salt, pepper, and a little lemon-juice. Send this to table with the chicken. Time to roast, half an hour for a small chicken. Sufficient for two or three persons. Probable cost of chicken, 28. 6d. Chicken (Jt la Marengo).—Cut a fine chicken into neat joints, season it with salt and cayenne, and fry it till done in about half tumblerful of oil or clarified butter. When half cooked, add a clove of garlic, two shalots,' and a faggot of sweet herbs. Drain the meat from the fat, and mix with the latter a table- spoonful of flour, and, very gradually, sufficient good stock to make the sauce of the consistence of thick cream. Stir it till it is thick and smooth. Put the chicken on a hot dish, strain the sauce over it, and serve. Eemember that the fat must not be skimmed from the sauce. If liked, mushrooms or fried eggs may be taken to garnish the dish. Time, about twenty-five minutes to fry the chicken. Sufficient for four or five persons. Chicken (a la Sainte Menehould).— Fricassee a chicken so that the gravy, when cold, will be a soUd jelly; put them between two dishes till cold; egg them well, strew over them finely-grated bread-crumbs, then dip them into egg, and then into bread-crumbs again. Fry them in hot butter or lard, and send a rich brown sauce to table with them. Time to fry, ten or fifteen minutes. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for three persons. Chicken (aux Fines Herbes).—Make a forcemeat by mincing the liver of a chicken, and adding to it a tea-spoonful each of chervil, tarragon, chives, and parsley, all finely minced, two pinches of salt, and one of pepper; work these ingredients together with a little butter, put them inside the chicken, and sew it up to prevent the forcemeat escaping; cover the bird with slices of bacon, place over that some but- tered paper, and roast before a clear fire. Put a piece of butter the size of an egg into a sauce- pan, and, when it is hot, fry in it a large onion sliced, and a large carrot; mix in verj"^ smoothly a table-spoonful of flour, and add sufficient stock to make the sauce a nice thickness. Add a glass of white wine and a tea-spoonful each of pimpernel, chervil, tarragon, and garden cress, aU finely minced. Simmer the gravy gently for an hour, strain it, and, if necessary, put in with it a little more salt and pepper. When it has simmered for a short time, serve the gravy in the dish which contains the chicken. Time, half an hour to roast the chicken; an hour and a quarter to malvO the gravy. Sufficient, one chicken for three persons. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Chicken, Baked, in Bice.—Cut a chicken into neat joints, and season each with pepper, salt, and a very little pounded mace. Place some slices of bacon at the bottom of a deep dish, lay the chicken upon it, strew over it a finely-minced onion, pour a breakfast-cup- ful of veal stock over all, and pile up the dish with boiled rice. Put a cover on, and bake for an hour. Probable cost of chicken, 28. 6d> Sufficient for four or five persons. Chicken, Boiled.—^Wash a chicken care- fully in lukewarm water, and truss it firmly; put it into hot water, remove the scum as it rises, let it boil, then draw it to the side and let it simmer gently until ready, and remem- ber that the more dowly it boiis the tendererCHI CHI ( 128 ) and whiter it will bo. Boforo putting it in the pan, place a few slices of lemon on the broiiBt, and wrap the chicken first in buttered papor| then in a floured cloth. Before serving it a little sauce may be poured over it, and the rest sent to table in a tureen. Bacon, pickled pork, ham, or tongue, are generally served with boiled chicken; and parsley and butter, b6chamol, Enghsh white sauce, celery, oyster, or mush- room sauce may accompany it. Time to boil, twenty to twenty-five minutes. Probable cost of chicken, 28.6d. Sufficient, one small chicken for two persons. Chicken, Broiled (with Mushroom Sauce)—Pick and wash a chicken carefully, and dry it in a cloth; cut it down the back, truss the logs and wings as if for boiling, and flatten both sides as much as possible. It is always bettor to boil it gently for a few minutes before it is broiled, but this is often omitted. When cold, brush it all over with clarified butter, and remember to baste it now and then whilst cooking it; broil it over a clear, low fire. It should be placed a good distance from the fire, and the inside should be put to it first. The butter should be renewed three or four times. Serve very hot, and let stewed mush- rooms be sent to table on a separate dish. Time, half to three-quarters of an hour. Sufficient for two persons. A small, young chicken should be chosen for this method of cooking. Chicken Broth. — This may be made from the inferior joints of a fowl, the best pieces being cooked in some other way; or the fowl may be used after it is cooked, in which case only just enough water must be put over it to cover it. Roast it for twenty minutes before putting it to boil; by this means the flavour will be improved. Generally speaking, a quart of water may be allowed for a medium- sized fowl. Put it into cold water, with very little salt, and no pepper, as these are better added afterwards, according to the taste of the invalid. Simmer very gently for a couple of hours, and sHm the liquid carefully as it comes to a boil. If there is time, pour it out, let it get cold, remove every particle of fat and boil it up again. Chicken broth may be thickened with rice, oatmeal, groats, pearl barley, or arrowroot; and these, besides making it more nutritious, will absorb a portion of the chicken fat, and make it smoother, and lighter of diges- tion. A few pieces of beef put in with the chicken are a great improvement. Probable cost, chicken, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for one pint of broth. Chicken Broth (another way).—The best parts of a young fowl may be used for a fricassee or a grill, and the inferior parts will do for this broth; or, an old fowl my be stewed, till aU the bones are bare, in a quart of water, and a little more liquid may be added if necessary. Season the broth wuth salt, pepper, mace, or onion, according to taste and the appetite of the invalid. \VTien the fowl has simmered until it has parted with all its nutriment, strain the liquid through a sieve, cool it, and remove the fat before it is warmed for use. This broth is seldom cared for by those who are in good health. Time, one hour and a half, or till tender. Probable cost, 28. to as. Sufficient for one quart of broth. Chicken Bruised.—Roast a chicken, Wlulo it in hot, ruiiKJve the entire breast, and mince, and pound the flesh in a mortar. Ertak the logs, pinions, &c., and simmer them with two breakfast-cupfuls of water, until the broth is reduced to one breakfast-cupful, then press the breast through a sieve into the gravy, and flavour the mixture with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and a little grated lemon-rind. Warn tliis up, with a cupful of cream, just before it is wanted. This is a good dish for an invalid. Time, one hour and a half. Probable cost of chickens, 28. 6d. each. Sufficient for one in- valid. Chicken, Curried.—This may be made either from uncooked chicken, or with the re- mains of a cold one. When a fresh chicken is used, cut the bird into neat joints and fry them lightly in hot butter or lard till they are brown. Put with them a Spanish onion, sliced, and a few mushrooms, covering all with some good stock. Let this sauce simmer gently for twenty minutes or more. 3Iix two dessert- spoonfuls of curry paste and a spoonful of ground rice very smoothly with a little water, and add this to the sauce. A little apple pulp or rasped cocoa-nut may be added if the flavour is liked. Just before serving, stir in a cupful of hot cream, and a squeeze of lemon- juice. Serve the curry in a hot dish, with rice {see Rice Boiled for Curry) piled round it. Probable cost, chickens, 2s. 6a. each. Sufficient for three persons. Chicken, Curried (another way).—Take the remains of a cold fowl cut it into neat joints, and put aside imtil wanted. Fry a finely-minced apple and an onion shced, in some hot butter or lard. When they are lightly browned, press them through a sieve and put the pulp into a saucepan with a pint of good gravy Thicken this with a dessert-spoonful of curry powder, a dessert-spoonful of curry paste, and a dessert-spoonful of ground rice; boil it gently until it is smooth and thick. Put in the pieces of chicken and let them remain until they are quite hot; squeeze a little lemon- juice over, and just before serving, add a table- spoonful of thick cream. Serve the curry with rice {see Rice Boiled for Curry) piled round the dish. Time, half an hour. Sufficient for three persons. Probable cost, lOd., exclusive of the cold fowl. Chicken Cutlets. — These are usually made of the legs of fowls, when the white ricsh has been taken for something else. Remove the thigh-bones from the legs, but leave the drumstick in its place. Put the legs into a saucepan, cover them with well-flavourod stock, and simmer them very gently till tender. If there is no stock, water must be used, ,ind then flavouring vegetables must be thrown in, a turnip, a carrot, a bunch of parsley, a few sticks of celery, an onion stuck with cloves, and a little pepper and salt. Take the logs up. put them in press between two dislics until cold and( 129 ) CHI CHI firm, and trim them neatly to the shape of cutlets. Brush them with oil or butter, dip thorn in egg and bread-crumb them twice. Fry the prepared cutlets in hot butter or lard till they are nicely browned; turn them two or three times that they may be equally cooked. Place them in a circle on a hot dish, pour Bechamel round them, and, as a garnish, place dressed vegetables in the centre of the cutlets. Sufficient for a medium-sized dish. Probable coat, 23. 6d. each chicken. Chicken Cutlets (another way).—Take two large cliickens, which have been gently stewed until done, then pressed between two dishes until cold. Eemove the flesh of the breast and wing on either side of the bone, thus making four fillets. Then take the meat under the wings, and any nice pieces you can find, and flatten them into the shape and size of the first; dij) these cutlets into beaten egg, and strew over them bread-crumbs nuxed with salt, pepper, and powdered mace. Make some good Bechamel {see Bechamel), and keep it hot. Cut as many sippets of bread as there are cut- lets, make them all of the same shape and size, and fry them in hot butter till they are lightly browned. Place them on a hot dish, fry the cutlets, and place one upon each sippet. Pour the gravy round, and serve. Time, five or six minutes to fry the cutlets. Allow one cutlet for each person. Probable cost, exclusive of the chicken, 8d. Chicken Cutlets (French method). — Take the remains of one or two cold chickens. Cut them into neat joints, strew over them a little salt, pepper, and pounded mace, dip them into clarified butter, then into egg, and cover them with bread-crumbs and finely-minced parsley. Fry them lightly in hot butter or dripping. Put a puree of sorrel or spinach in the middle of the dish, place the cutlets round it, and grate a little Pannesan cheese over them. Send good gravy made of the bones and trimmings to table in a tureen. Time, five or six minutes to fry the cutlets. Sufficient for four or five persons. Probable cost, lOd., exclusive of the cold chicken. Chicken, Devilled.—The best parts of chicken for a devU are the wings and legs. Remove the skin, score the flesh deeply in several places, and rub in a fiery mixture made of salt, pepper, cayenne, mustard, anchovy, and butter. This business should be done overnight. Broil over a clear fire, and serve the fowl hot on a napkin. No sauce is required. Time, ten or twelve minutes to broil- Chicken (en Matelote) .—Cut a fine chicken into neat joints. Put a quarter of a pound of fresh butter into a stewpan, and when it is hot fry the pieces of chicken in it till they are lightly browned, then lift them out and put them aside until wanted. Fry in the butter SIX small onions sliced, a large carrot cut into quarters, a parsnip also quartered, and a dozen small mushrooms. Pour over these sufficient stock to cover them, add some savoury herbs, a blade of mace, a tea-spoonful of salt and a salt-spoonful of pepper, and simmer F all gently together untU the sauce _ is richly flavoured. Strain it and thicken it with a little brown thickening, pour into it a glass of claret, and simmer it gently until it is smooth and thick. Put in the chicken, mix with the hash the liver of the chicken pounded, a boned anchovy and half a tea-spoonful of bruised capers. Simmer a quarter of an hour longer and serve. Time, one hour and a half. Pro- bable cost of chicken, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Chicken, Fricasseed.—Choose a fresh, tender chicken. Draw, singe, and skin it, then cut it into neat joints. Soak these joints in cold water for fifteen minutes, drain them, and put them into a saucepan, with a bunch of savouiy herbs, an onion stuck with two cloves, a tea-spoonful of salt, and half a tea-spoonful of pepper, and enough water to cover them. Bring the liquid to a boil, remove the scum as it rises, and simmer very gently for half an hour, or until the meat is sufficiently cooked. When this point is reached, further boiling -will spoil the flavour. Put two ounces of butter, two ounces of flour, and a dessert-spoonful of mush- room powder into a stewpan. Stir the mixture about until it is quite smooth, but do not let it brown; add, gradually, a pint and a half of the liquor in which the chicken was boiled, and simmer gently for half an hour. Put the pieces of chicken into a saucepan with a little of the sauce, and let them warm gently. Thicken the remainder of the sauce with the yolks of three eggs well beaten, and a piece of butter about the size of a walnut; di-aw the sauce from the fire before adding them, mix a little of it with them first, then pour the mixture into the remainder. The sauce must not boil after the eggs are added. Put the chicken into a dish, pour the sauce over, and take stewed mushrooms to table on a separate dish. Time, one hour and a half. Probable cost of chicken, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for four persons. Chicken, Fricasseed (another way).— Take the remains of a cold chicken; cut it into neat joints. Make some good gravy by simmering the tiimmings in some good stock, with an onion stuck with three cloves, a bunch of savoury herbs, a bay-leaf, and salt and pepper to taste. Simmer for about an hour. Strain the gravy; take a breakfast-cupful of it, and thicken it with a tea-spoonful of flour; let this boil, then put in the chicken. Draw the saucepan from the fire for a minute or two, and mix a little of the sauce with the yolks of two eggs and a cupful of cream; pour the mix- ture into the saucepan, let it get thoroughly hot, but on no account allow it to boU, or the eggs will curdle. Serve with the sauce poured over the chicken. Time, one hour and a half. Proba,ble cost, 9d., exclusive of the cold chicken.' Sufficient for three or four persons. Chicken, Fried.-Take the remains of a cold chicken, cut it into neat joints, salt and pepper these rather highly, and strew over them finely-chopped onion and parsley. Cover them with oU, and squeeze over them the juice of a lemon. Turn the pieces every now and then, and let them remain until they have imbibed the flavour, then dip the pieces in flour, andCHI ( 130 ) CHI fry thorn in hot hutter or lard. Put a broak- fast-cupf111 of good stock into a saucejuin, with a moderato-sizod onion stuck with two cloves, u hay-lcaf, a Mttlo salt and popper, tho juico of a lonion, and a little parsley and tarragon chop- ped small. Lot this sauce boil well, and then eti-ain it. Serve tho pieces of cliickon piled •upon a dish, covered with a napkin, gar- nished with fried parsley, and send tho above sauce, or, if preferred, tomato sauce, to table in a tureen. Probable cost, 4d., exclusive of the chicken. Sufficient for three persons. Chicken, Pried (another way).—Take tho remains of a cold chicken, cut it into neat pieces, brush a little oil over each piece, and strew over it, rather thickly, salt and curry powder. Melt a little butter in a frynng-pan, and fry some onions, cut into thin strips about half an inch long and the eighth of an inch wide. Fry them slowly, and keep them in the pan until they are a dark-bro'WTi coloxir, and quite dry. They will require a little care, as they must on no account be burnt. , Fry the chicken, strew the onion over it, and serve with slices of lemon. Time to fiy the chicken, ten minutes. Allow two or three pieces of chicken for each person. Probable cost, 3d., exclusive of the cold chicken. Chicken Fritters.—Cut the meat from a dressed chicken into thin neat slices. Flour these well, or, if preferred, draw them through egg, and cover them with bread-crumbs which have been mixed with a little flour, pepper, and salt. Melt a little butter in a small frying- pan ; when hot put in the slices of meat, and cook them gently, turning them once or twice during the process. When brown, pile them on a dish, and send brown sauce or tomato sauce to table with them. If preferred, the slices may be dipped in batter and fried in hot fat, like Kromeskies; or, to make them more tasty, they may before being floured be put into a marinade make cf a little chopped parsley and onion, pepper, salt, and the juice of a lemon. Chicken in Peas.—Take a fresh young chicken. Cut it into neat joints, and lay them in a saucepan with a quart of fine fresh peas, measured after they are shelled. Add a piece of butter about the size of a walnut, a bunch of parsley, a pinch of salt, a small pinch of popper, and a small onion. Pour a cupful of good gravy over them, and simmer gently imtil the liquor is exhausted. Then mix a small lump of butter with, a tea-spoonful of flour, and put tliis to the peas, which should be boiling when it is put in. Shake the sauce- pan about until the peas are nicely thickened, and serve them piled high in a dish, with the pieces of chicken round. The chicken and peas must be gently stewed. Probable cost: chicken, 2s. 6d,; peas, 8d. per peck. Sufficient for four persons. Chicken, Marinaded.—Cut a cold rf)asted chicken into neat joints, season them Avcll in salt and cayenne, strew over them rihopped onion and parsley, and soak them for a,n hour in equal parts of lemon-juice and oil. Turn them frequently. Drain them, and dip each piece in a light batter, or else in white of eggs beaten up, and fry them in hot butter or lard until hghtly browned. Gamihh with fried ])arsl()y. Sulliciont, one chicken for two or three persons. JVobable cost, 2b. 6d. Time to fry, ten minutes. Chicken, Minced,—Take the remains of a cold chicken, cut off all the meat, and mince it flnely. Put a breakfast-cupful of white stock into a saucepan, thicken it vrith a little flour, and let it boil for twenty minutes; then add half a dozen mushrooms chopped small, half a pint of cream or new milk, a httlo salt, pepper, and pounded mace, and the minced chicken. When the mushrooms are cooked, serve as quickly as possible, with toasted sijipets round the dish. Time, forty minutes. I'robable cost, 8d., if made with mUk, exclusive of tho cold chicken. Sufficient for thix-e persons. Chicken, Mushroom Sauce for.- Put the legs and neck of the chicken, with any trimmings of meat that are to bo had, a small piece of mace, six or eight peppercorns, a bunch of savoury herbs, a drachm of celery-seed I bruised, a piece of thin lemon-rind, and a boned I anchovy, into a saucepan with a pint of water, \ and let the liquid simmer down to half a pint. Prepare half a pint of young mushrooms, and put them into a stewpan with an ounce of butter rolled in flour, half a pint of the liquid strained, and one gill of cream or new milk. Put the sauce over a good fire, and stir it imtil it is sufficiently thick. Pour it round boiled chickens. Time, exclusive of the stock, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, lOd., if made with milk. Sufficient for a couple of good-sized chickens. Chicken, Paaada (Invalid Cookery).— Take a fresh young chicken, and boil it, until quite tender, in sufficient water to cover it. Take off aU the meat from the bones, and pound it in a mortar until quite smooth, with a Httle of the liquid it was boiled in, and add some salt, nutmeg, and a very little grated lemon-rind. Boil this gently for a few minutes with sufficient liquid to make it of the consistency of thick custard. Time, twenty-five minutes to boil the chicken. Probable cost, chicken, 2s. 6d. A verj- little of this contains a great deal of nourishment. Chicken Patties.—Pick the meat from a cold chicken, and mince it very finely. To every six ounces of chicken allow three oimces of lean ham also minced, a piece of butter about the size of an egg rolled in flour, a small tea- cupful of cream or new milk, and the same of white stock, two pinches of salt, one of pepper, a quarter of a small nutmeg grated, the thin rind of a quarter of a lemon finely grated, and a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice. A few ! nunced mushrooms are a great improvement. Put these into a saucepan, and stir them gently for ten minutes, taking care that they do not burn. Lino some patty-pans with good crust. Put a piece of paper crumpled up or a crust of bread into each to support tho top while baking, and place a cover of crust over it. WTien sufficiently baked, take off the top crust, remove the broad or the paper, three-parts fill the patty with the mixture, replace the cover, being careful not to break it, and fasten it with white of egg.CHI CHI ( 131 ) Time to bake, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, 2d. each. Allow one for each person. Chicken Pie.—Take two large chickens, aiid cut them into neat joints. Put the trim- mings, neck, and bones of the legs into a stewpan, ^th some pepper and salt, a blade of mace, an onion, a bimch of savoury herbs, and a Uttlc water, or stock. Let these simmer gently for one hour and a half. They are to make gravy. Line the edges of a pie-dish -with a good crust. Put a layer of chicken at the bottom, then a layer of ham cut in slices, and over that some sausage-meat or forcemeat, and some hard-boUed eggs cut in slices. Repeat until the dish is fuU. Pour over all a cupful of ■water or white stock, and place a cover on the top. Brush over it the yolk of an egg. Bake in a good oven. "WTien the pie has been in the oven about half an hour, place a piece of paper over the top to prevent the crust from being frizzled up before the meat is sufficiently cooked. When it is ready, raise the cover and pour in the gravy rnadp from the bones. Put a trussing-needle into the pie to ascertain -whether it is suffi- ciently cooked. If it goes through easily, take the pie out. A pie made -with two chickens, sufficient for six persons. Probable cost, 6s. Chicken I*ie (a good dish for picnics, breakfast, or luncheon).—Prepare the chicken and make the gra-vy as in the preceding recipe; make a forcemeat by pounding the liver in a mortar, -with four ounces of lean ham, four ounces of tongue, two ounces of butter, and the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs. Season the mixture with a little salt and cayenne, and make it into balls. Place a layer of chicken at the bottom of a deep dish, and over this a layer of ham. Place the forcemeat balls amongst the pieces of meat. Strew over them some chopped mushrooms or truffles, pour in the gra-v^', and cover the dish with good puff paste. The edges must have been pre-viously lined -with puff paste. When the pie is about half baked, cover it with paper to prevent its becoming too bro-wn. Sausage-meat may be substituted for the forcemeat, if preferred. A few hard-boUed eggs are by many considered an improvement. . Time to bake, one and a half or two hours. Probable cost, 7s. or 8s. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Chicken, Potted.—Take the meat from a cold roast chicken, remove the gristle and skin, and weigh it after it is picked. To every pound of chicken-meat allow a quarter of a pound of ham, a quarter of a pound of butter, a tea-spoonful of salt, four grains of cayenne, one tea-spoonful of pounded mace, and a quarter of a small nutmeg. Pound these thoroughly in a mortar. Press the paste into small jars, and cover it -with clarified butter about a quarter of an inch In thickness. Keep it in a dry place. Time, about half an hour to prepare. Probable cost, lOd., exclusive of the cold chicken. A little of it should be spread on bread and butter for each person. Chicken Rissoles.—Pick the flesh from a cold chicken, mince it finely, and to every quarter of a pound of meat put one oimce of lean ham, one ounce of finely-grated bread- crumbs, a small onion, boiled and chopped, »' piece of clarified butter about the siiio of a ■walnut, half a salt-spoonful of salt, half that quantity of pepper, and two or three grates^ of a. nutmeg. Mix these thoroughly, then moisten tlio mixture -with a little stiff white sauce. If this is not at hand, it may easily be made by boiling the trimmings of the chicken -with suit- able seasonings and a little gelatine. Let th& mixture get cold, and form it into balls. Make some good pastry, and roU it out tliinly. Cover the balls with it, and fry them in hot fat tiU they are a light brown, drain them thoroughly from, the fat, and serve them piled high on a napkin^ with fned parsley garnishing the dish. Timo to fry, ten minutes. Probable cost, 6d., exclu- sive of the cold chicken. Allow two for each person. Chicken, Roast.—Young spring chicten.s should be very carefully prepared for roasting, as the flesh is so tender that it will easily tear. They require no stuffing. A little butter placed inside is an improvement. They shoiild be firmly trussed like a fowl, slightly floured, put down to a clear fire, and basted constantly until ready. Bread sauce, mushroom, egg, or chestnut sauce may aU be served -with roast chicken. If the fire is too fierce a piece of oiled paper may be fastened over the breast of the bird -whilst it is down. Time to roast, half an. hour. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. each. Sufficient for two or three persons. Chicken, Roast (another way.)—If it it, -wished to stuff the chicken, a forcemeat may be made by mincing the liver and an equal, quantity of bacon together, then adding a small pinch of finely-minced lemon-rind, a. table-spoonful of grated bread-crumbs, a des- sert-spoonful of chopped parsley, three or four chives, cut small, and a little pepper. The- chicken should then be covered with slices of bacon, -with a piece of buttered paper fastened over them. If it is preferred, a couple of boned ancho-^des may be substituted for the lemon- rind in the stuffing. Time to roast, half an hour. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. each. Sufficient for three persons. Chicken Salad^ Plain.—Take a -well- boiled fowl, and cut it into neat, small pieces. Make a pickle of equal parts of oil, -vinegar,, ■svith a little fincly-minced onion, salt, arid, pepper, and let the pieces lie in this t-wo or three hours, turning them occasionally that the chicken may become impregnated -with the- flavour of the pickle. Prepare some lettuce; if it is young, the little heads may be cut into halves; if large, the hearts may be cut Icngth- -ways and di-vidcd; but especial care should be taken in making salads that the lettuce is per- fectly dry. It is a good i)lan to -wash it some hours before it is needed, and hang it in a -wire basket in an airy situation. If after this it is not quite free from moisture, two or three leaves at a time should be put into a clean dry towel, and shaken gently about. A salad is never properly made unless attention is paid to this point, as the dressing, instead of mixing with the salad, -will be all at the bottom of the boAvl. IMakc a sauce as in the following recipe. Arrange the chicken and salad in the dish as prettily as you can, and( 132 ) CHI CHI pour iho saueo over them; {^urniHli with thiii aliccs of beetroot cut into Bhupoa with uu ordi- nary pastry cutter, hard-boiled eggs cut into slices or quarters, and a little green parsley between the pieces of egg. A chicken siila'd neatly and tastefully armnged has a good ap- pearance, and is generally a welcome dish. Time to boil the chicken, half an hour. Probable cost: chicken, 28. Gd.; salad and dressing, Is. Sufficient for six persons. Chicken Salad, Rich.—Boil a large chicks^ i ntil quite tender, and, when it is cold, pick oil the moat in small pieces. Take as much celery as there is chicken, and cut it into pieces about an inch long, put it in a little water to make it crisp, then dxain and dry it thoroughly. Put the yolk of one egg into a large basin, and beat well with a silver fork until it begins to feel thick. Add first a heaped tea-spoonful of mustard, and afterwards six tea- spoonfuls of oil, putting in the first two tea- spoonfuls by thi'ee drops at a time, and beating the sauce thoroughly between each addition. To every sixth tea-spoonful of oil put one tea-spoon- ful of lemon-juice, and repeat until half a pint of oil and the juice of a large lemon have been used. Flavour with three pinches of salt and two of red pepper, and, last of all, put in a table-spoon- ful of cream. The sauce should be thick, and highly flavoured. Mix the chicken with the celery, pour half the dressing into the salad and the rest on the top, and garnish according to taste. Time, half an hour to boil the chicken. Probable cost: chicken, 2s. 6d.; celery, 3d. per head. Sufficient for six persons. Chicken, Sauce for.—Take the livers of the fowls you are using, and boil them with a bunch of thyme and parsley ; drain them, and pound them in a mortar with two boned anchovies, a little pepper and salt, and the finely-grated rind of half a lemon; add the white of one egg, and the hard-boiled yolks of two. Squeeze the juice of half a lemon over the mixture, and put it into a saucepan with a pint of good melted butter. Stir the sauce constantly until it is thick enough. Time, altogether, about half an hour. Sufficient for a couple of boUed chickens. Probable cost, 6d. Chicken, Sauce for Roast. —Boast chickens are generally served with brown sauce, and bread sauce in a sepai-ate tureen. If no gravy is at hand, of which, brown sauce can be made, a few slices of liver may be fried with a little bacon until nicely browned, boiling water ])0ured upon them, and strained. Time, ten minutes. Probable cost, 4d. Chicken, Scalloped..—Take the remains of a cold chicken, free it from skin and gristle, and mince it finely. Place the mince in a saucepan, and moisten it vnth. some white sauce, or, failing that, some white stock mixed with a little cream, and thiclccned with flour. Season with salt, cayenne, and pounded mace. Let the mLxture boil, stining it aU the time. Butter tho scallop shells, strew some broad- crumbs over them, fill them with the mixture, and strew more bread-crumbs over the top. Sprinkle some clarified butter over them, and bake in a hot oven, and serve with pickles or cucumber. Time, half an hour. Probable cost, 4d., exclusive of the cold chicken. AHow two for each person. Chicken Soup, DeUcate.—Pluck and wasJi Uiorouglily tlireu young chickens, and put them in a stowpan with five pints of good, white, nicely-flavoured stock, thoroughly freed from fat and cleared from s(;dimont. A sliced turnip and carrot nmy bo put with them, and removed before the soup is thickened. Let thorn simmer gently for nearly an hour-. Itemovo all the white flesh, and return the rest of the birds to the soup, and simmer once more for a couple of hours. Pour a little of the boiling liquid over a quarter of a pound of the crumb of bread, and when it is well soaked, drain it, put it in a mortar with the flesh which has been taken from the bones, and pound it to a smooth paste, adding, by degrees, the liquid. Flavour with salt, cayenne, and a very little pounded mace, press the mixture through a sieve, and boil once more, adding one pint of boiling cream. If the soup should not be sufficiently thick, a table- spoonful of arrowroot which has been mixed may be added very smoothly with a little cold nuli. Probable cost, chickens, 28. 6d. each. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Chicken, To Pull.—Take a cold roasted chicken, cut off the legs, sidesmen, and back, season these with pepper and salt, and dip them in beaten egg and bread-crumbs. Take off the skin from the breast and wings, and pull the flesh off in thin flakes; have ready some good white sauce, nicely flavoured, and put it in a saucepan with the white meat, shaking the saucepan. Broil the legs, &c. Pour the mince into the middle of a hot dish; place the back upon it, and the legs and pinions round. Just before serving, squeeze over the dish the juice of a lemon. Time, half an hour. Pro- bable cost, chicken, 2s. 6<i. Sufficient for three persons. Chicken, White Sauce for Boiled. —Dissolve an ounce of butter in a small sauce- pan, and mix smoothly with it three-quarters of an ounce of flour. Stir in half a pint of white stock, or water, and add a small carrot, three button mushrooms, and an ounce of lean ham. Stir the sauce till it boils, draw it back and let it simmer for twenty minutes. Skim and strain it, then boil it again, and piit a quarter of a pint of cream with it. Sufficient for two small chickens. Chicken and Ham Sandwiches.— Put a breakfast-cupful of good gravy into a saucepan, with three dessert-spoonfuls of currA- paste mixed smoothly in it. Add half a pound of the flesh of a cold" chicken, and two ounces of lean ham finely minced. Let the ingredients boH for ten minutes, then turn them out. Cut some slices of stale bread about the eighth of an inch in thickness, and stamp them out in shapes. Fry them in a little butter, spread some of the mixture between two of them, and put over it a little slice of cheese, and a piece of butter. Press it well down, bake the sandwiches in a quick oven, on a baking sheet, and serve them as hot as possible, piled high on a napkin. Time, five minutes to bake. Allow two or( 133 ) CHI CHI throe for eacli person. Probable cost, 8d., ex- clusive of the cold meat. Chicken and Ham, To Pot.-Pound separately the white meat of a cold fowl, and un equal weight of ham, beef, or tongue. Season the fowl with salt, pepper, and pounded mace, and the other meat with pepper only. Put Layers of each into a jar, place a shco of butter on the top, and bake for an hour and a half. Let them get cold, then pour some clari- fied butter on the top rather thickly. A little may be eaten with bread and butter for break- fast or luncheon. Probable cost, 4d., exclusive of the cold meat. Chicken, and Macaroni. — Boil a chicken in the usual manner. Take half a potmd of pipe macaroni, and boil it in water with a lump of butter in it. When it has boiled a quarter of an hour, drain it, and sub- stitute milk for the water, with a large onion stuck with cloves, and a little salt and pepper. Boil imtO. the macaroni is tender but unbroken, then grate over it a quarter of a pound of Parme- san cheese. Lay the chicken, which ought to bo just cooked, on a dish, put the macaroni and cheese over it, and serve as hot as possible. Time to boil the macaroni the second time, half an hour; to boil the chicken, half an hour. Sufficient for four persons. Probable cost, chicken, 2s. 6d. Chicken and Macaroni Pudding- Boil three ounces of pipe macaroni in some nicely-flavoured stock till it is tender but un- broken. Prepare the meat as in the next recipe, aUo^ving six ounces of ham and six oimces of chicken to three ounces of macaroni. Mix them well together, and add a well-beaten egg, and a piece of butter about the size of an egg. Pour the mixture into a buttered mould, tie it in a cloth, boil or steam it, and when ready serve it as hot as possible. Time to boil, one hour. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of the cold meat. Sufficient for four persons. Chicken and Rice Pudding.—Cut the meat from the remains of a cold fowl, and take half its weight in ham. Free it from skin and gristle, and pound it in a mortar, with a little salt, white pepper, and povmded mace. To one pound of fowl, and half a pound of ham, allow a cupful of rice. Boil this in some nicely- flavoured stock till it is sufficiently cooked, then drain it, and add to it a cupful of new milk and the pounded meat. Stir these well together. Put the mixtnre into a buttered mould, dredge a little flour over the top, tie it in a floured cloth, and boU it for an hour, taking care that the water in the saucepan does not reach as high as the top of the mould. Serve with mushroom or oyster sauce. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of the cold meat. Sufficient for six persons. Chicken and Sweetbread Pie.—Line a deep pie-dish with a good crust, and spread a layer of forcemeat on it. Put over this alter- nate layers of chicken cut into neat joints, and sweetbread cut into small pieces, both seasoned with salt and cayenne; sprinkle over each layer ft few mushrooms or truffles chopped small. When the dish is nearly fuU, put some slices of hard-boiled egg over the top, pour a little gravy over the meat, cover the dish with the same crust that it was lined with, brush it over with beaten egg, and bake it in a good oven. Just before serving, make a hole in the top and pour in some good gravy. Time to bake, one hour and a half. Probable cost, chickens, 2s. 6d. each. Sufficient, a pie made with two chickens for six persons. Chicken and Tongue with Cauli- flowers (a handsome supper dish).—Boil a tongue and two chickens according to the direc- tions given for both. Brush the tongue over with glaze, place it in the middle of a large dish, and put a chicken on each side of it. Cover the birds with white sauce, and garnish the dish with small cauliflowers or brussels sprouts. Serve hot. If preferred, celery may be boiled, and substituted for the cauliflowers, or the chickens and tongue may be served cold, and the dish garnished with cut lemon and parsley. Time, half an hour for the chickens, two hours for the tongue, twenty minutes for the cauliflowers. Sirfiicient, two chickens and a tongue for six persons. Probable cost: chickens, about 58. per pair; tongue, 4s.; cauliflowers, 2d. each. Children's Cake (suitable for sending to children at school).—Mix thoroughly one poxmd of flour, two heaped tea-spoonfuls of baking- powder, and a pinch of salt. Rub well in a quarter of a pound of butter or good beef drip- ping, and add a quarter of a pound of currants, a quarter of a poimd of chopped raisins, a quarter of a pound of sugar, a little grated nutmeg, and two oimces of candied peel chopped small. Mix with water to a stiflf paste, and bake it in a moderate oven. If preferred, caraway seeds may be substituted for the currants and raisins. Time to bake, one hour. Probable cost. Is. Sufficient for a moderate-sized cake. Chili Vinegar.—Cut 100 small, fresh, red chilies into halves, and infuse them for a fortnight in a quart of best pickling vinegar. Strain the liquid and put it into small bottles. The flavour of the chilies will not be entirely extracted, so the bottle may be replenished with rather less vinegar than before. It is a con- venience to have this vinegar at hand to flavour sauces, and to serve with fish, which many persons cannot eat without the addition of an acid and cayenne. Half an ounce of cayenne will answer the same purpose as the chilies, if it can be procured genuine. The vinegar will keep a long time if closely corked. Sufficient for one quart of vinegar. Probable cost of chilies, 2s. per hundred. China Chilo.—Mince finely as much of the undressed lean part of the neck, leg, or loin of mutton as will fill a pint basin, adding a i little of the fat, also minced, if this is Uked. Put three ounces of butter into a saucepan, with two small onions chopped small, two or three young lettuces finely shred, a tea-spoonful of salt, a quarter as much cayenne pepper, a pint of young green peas, and a small bunch of parsley. Stir the ingredients over a gentle fire until the onions are soft, then add the minced meat, and half a pint of good stock orCHO CHI ( 134 } water. Stii- constantly until the mixture is quite hot, thou cover the Hiiucopau closely, uud «iuuuor it viTy gciutly for two houi-s. Servo it in a liot dish, with a herder of rice roimd it. A cupful of chopped muslu-ooma will he an iiiiprovement. Prohuhle cost, 3b. Sufficient for half a do/eu persons. Ching-Ching (an American drink).— Put tlii'oe oimces of poppciTnint, three or four ■drops of the csscuco of cloves, a sliced oranye, a dossert-spoouful of sifted loaf sugar, and two tahle-spooufuls of pounded ice into a largo tumbler. Mix with it a quaiior of a pint of rum, stir the mixture for a minute or two, and th'ink it through a straw. Prohahle cost, Gd., ■ exclusive of tho rum. Sufficient for a Largo tumblerful. Chipolata Garnish.—Take equal quan- tities ot carrots, tuvuips, chestnuts, mushrooms, pieces of bacon, and small sausages, as many as may be requii-cd for the dish they are to gar- nish. Shape all these ingredients into neat pieces of a small size. Roast and peel the chestnuts, and boU the other ingi-edients sepa- rately. When they are ready drain them and put them into a saucepan, cover them with good brown sauce, nicely seasoned, and add a glass of sherry; let them boil, then use the ragout for garnishing dishes of game, poultry, and cutlets. The carrots and turnips in this ragout may be shaped like peas or dice, or, if liked, they may be peeled in ribbons, then cut into t.hin shreds. Chives, Butter.—Boil half a pound of butter, remove the scum as it rises, and let it boil for a few minutes. Squeeze into it the juice of a large lemon, and add a tea-spoonful of finely-minced chives. A small onion chopped, and a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley will do nearly as well. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient "for half a pound of butter. Chocolate. — Chocolate, when obtained .-genuine, is made from the berry of the cacao tvee, mixed with ^ little cinnamon, vanilla, and sugar. It is a most agreeable and nutritious -beverage. It is much used in Spain. That which is sold in England is too often a mixture of flour and treacle, with, a very small quantity of the real article mixed in it. Scrape as, much ■chocolate as may be requu-ed into equal quanti- ties of hot milk and water. Stir it until it is •diBSolved, then put it in the saucepan, and make it quite hot, stirring it all the time. It must not boil up, or it will be oily. Sweeten and serve. The quantity to be used depends on the strength wanted. Generally speaking, one ounce of -chocolate may be used for one pint of milk and •water. Wbere chocolate is regularly used, it is much better to have a proper chocolate mill, so 'that it may be served hot and frothy. Time, ten minutes. Probable cost, from Is. to Is. 6d. per pound. Cheap chocolate should be avoided. Allow one ounce for ciich person. Chocolate Biscuits.—IMix a quarter of a pound of finely-grated chocolate with a ■quarter of a pound of finely-sifted sugar, and moisten the mixture with sufficient beaten white of egg to make a softisli paste. Mould this into ■small biscuits with a tea-spoon, and place, these on a sheet of paper, leavuig a little diKtance between the biscuits. Bake them in a modeiute oven, and, when sufficiently cooked, turn the sheets over so that the bisciiits may rest on the table, and brush the paper imdemeath the biscuits with a httle water to loosen them. Tlie addition of six ounces of sweet almonds, blanched and pounded, wiU convert those into chocolate macaroons. Time to bake, twenty nunutes. Probable cost. Is. 6d. per pound. Sufficient for a moderate-sized dish. Chocolate Canellons.—Mix t%vo ounces of grated chocolate with four ounces of finely- sifted sugar and a dessert-spoonful of flour, and add the beaten white of an egg to make a jjaste. Take pieces about the size of a walnut, and loll them out very thinly, place them on a buttered tin, and bake them in a moderate oven for ten or fifteen minutes. While they are warm, turn them over a ruler to shape them, and sUp them on a sieve to dry. Probable cost, 5d. for this quantity. Sufficient for a small dessert-dish. Chocolate Cream. — Grate one ounce of the best chocolate and two ounces of sugar into a pint of thick cream; boil it, stirring it all the time, until quite smooth, then add, when cool, the whites of four eggs beaten to a soHd froth. Half fill the glasses, and whip the remainder into a froth to put at the top. Time, twenty minutes. Probable cost, 2s., allowing Is. 6d. per pint for the cream. Sufficient for a pint and a half of cream. Chocolate Custard.—Pour half a cupful of boiling water over one ounce of the best choco- late finely grated, let it stand by the fire till it is dissolved; stir it gradually into a pint of milk or cream, and add two table-spoonfuls of sifted sugar and the yolks of four eggs well beaten. Put the custard into a saucepan, and beat it to a froth until it thickens. It may be put into cups and baked in a good oven. It is more generally served as it is. Time, half an hour. Probable cost, 8d., if made with milk. Suffi- cient for a pint and a half. Chocolate Drops.—Dissolve four ounces of the best French chocolate in a little boQing water, and add to it half a poimd of sifted sugar, stir the mixture on the fire till it is smooth and quite hot. Place it in drops about the size of a sixpence on sheets of writing paper, and leave them until cold. If it is wished, the drops may be shaken (while still soft) in a paper with some nonpareil comfits. They should be kept in layers between sheets of paper. Time, about half an hour. Probable cost, 7d. for this quantity. Chocolate Ice Cream.—Dissolve half a : pound of the best French chocolate in a break- fast-cupful of boiling water, add a pint and a half of cream and half a pound of sugar boiled to a sjTup ; strain through silk and put into the ice pail. Freeze in the usual way. When frozen, add three gills of double cream, work till smooth, and close the pot till the ice is wanted. Chocolate Mill.—The chocolate mill is used to gi\-e tho fine frothy appeai-ance to tho chocolate which is generally so much hked. and which camaotbo so eflectually produced without it, though brisk stii-ring over the fire will go aCHO CHO ( 135 ) great way to secure it. In using this article, mix the cliocoUite smootMy with the water or milk, and poui- it into the pot; put on the lid with the handle of the mill coming through it, and then A CHOCOLATE MILL. warm the chocolate gently, rubhing the handle briskly between the palms of the hands all the time the chocolate is on the fire. The prepara- tion must not be allowed to boil, or it will be oily. When the hd is taken off, the chocolate will be found to be in a fine state of froth. Probable cost, 5s. Chocolate Pudding.—Put an ounce of best chocolate grated, and as much powdered cinnamon as would stand on a threepenny piece into two table-spoonfuls of boiling water. Let the mixture stand by the side of the fire imtil dissolved, then mix with it a pint of boiling milk, and add four large lumps of sugar, and when it is cold, four eggs weU beaten. Pour the mixture into a buttered pie-dish; and either steam or bake it for half an hour. It is more suitable to eat hot when steamed, and cold when baked. A little sifted sugar may be eaten with the pudding cold, and arrowroot sauce served with it hot. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Chocolate Tarts.—Grate two ounces of the best French chocolate, and mix with it a pinch of powdered cinnamon, a pinch of salt, a tea-spoonful of finely-chopped lemon-rind, a dessert-spoonful of sifted sugar, and a heaped tea-spoonful of ground rice. IMix a pint of cream or new milk with four weU-beaten eggs, and add the custard gradually and smoothly to the chocolate powder. Stir the mixture over the fire for a few minutes, but be carefnl that the cream does not curdle. Line the inside of a tart-dish with good puff paste. Pour the cream, when cool, into it, and bake the tart in a moderate oven. Time to bake, about half an hour. Probable cost, lOd. made Avith milk, 2s. made with cream. Sufficient for five or six persons. Chops, Broiled.—Mutton is the meat for chops, though lamb and pork also furnish ex- cellent ones. A variety of dishes may be made from them, and they may be served with all sorts of sauces and vegetables. They are often cut from the best end of the neck, and the fillet of the leg, but are best when taken fi-om the middle of the loin. They should bo cut not less than half an inch thick, and not over fat; if taken from the neck, the bones should be shortened. To broil chops trim them neatly, remove nearly aU the fat, which may be rendered and. made into good dripping, and pepper them slightly. Have a clear fire made of cinders. Make the gridiron hot, and rub it well with mutton suet. Put the chops upon it and place it slanting to prevent the fat dropping on the fii-e, and causing a smoke. If a blaze should arise, remove the gridiron for a moment, and strew a handful of salt over the fire. Turn the chops often till they are done, which wiU be in about eight minutes. Place them on a hot dish with a piece of butter about the size of a nut under each and send mushroom ketchup to table with them. French cooks pepper and salt them, and brush some clarified butter over them before broUing, and this tends to keep in the juices. If it can be done, they are better sent to table one at a ■ time, as they are broiled. Probable cost. Is. Id, per pound. Chops, Broiled (a la Maintcnon).— Cut and trim the chops as before. Beat the yolk of an egg, and mix with it a tea-spoonful of finely-grated bread-crumbs, a tea-spoonful of parsley, half a tea-spoonful of thyme, and a little salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Cover the chops with this, then wrap each one in a piece of weU-buttered writing paper, and broil them as in the last recipe, turning them often. Serve with some good brown gravy. Time, about ten minutes. Allow one chop for each person. Probable cost, Is. Id. per pound. Chops, Fried.—Prepare the chops as be- fore. Brush each chop with beaten egg, and cover them with finely-grated bread-crumbs. Put a good slice of butter into the frj'ing-pan, and when it is melted, place them in it. Turn i them two or three times, and when they are ; nearly ready, sprinkle salt and pepper over j them. Fry them over a clear fire not less than : ten or more than fifteen minutes. When they are taken up lay them for a moment or two on blottmg paper, to absorb the fat. Make some good melted butter, and stir into it, when i boning, two table-spoonfuls of finely-minced ; pickled gherkins. Probable cost. Is. Id. per ; pound. One chop will be sufficient for each \ person. 1 Chops, Stewed with Onion.—Take , half a dozen nice loin chops, trim them neatly, i remove nearly all the fat, and broil them for two minutes on each side, then place them in I clean blotting paper. Cut two large Spanisb, onions into sUces, and put them into a stewpan with half a tea-spoonful of salt, and four ounces of fresh butter. Place the chops upon them, and cover the saucepan closely, and stew all gently tiU the onions are reduced to pulp. Before dishing, pour a tea-spoonful of chJli vinegar upon the dish. Steak may be cooked in this way as well as chops. Time to broil the chop, four minutes; to stew them with the onions untU the latter are reduced to pulp, about half an hour. Probable cost. Is. Id. per pound. AUow one chop for each person. Choux.—Put four ounces of butter into half a pint of boiling water, with two table- spoonfuls of finely-sifted sugai-, and a salt-spoon- ful of minced lemon-rind. Let the butter melt,CHO CHR ( 136 ) then add, gradually, five ounces of fine flour. Stir the paste quickly till it leaves the sides of the saucepan. Draw it back, and let it cool, then stir four eggs into it, one at a time, with a pinch of salt, and a table-spoonful of orange- flower water. Beat it well until the paste is quite fii-m and smooth. Make the paste into small balls about the size of a walnut, put them on a floured tin, and bake in a slow and steady oven. Dry them before the fire, and make a little slit in the side to put jam into. This pastry may be made into any shape, and it swells very much in baking. Time to bake the choux, about one hour. They should be quite crisp and hard when served. Suflficicnt for a moderate-sized dish. Choux (another way).—Make the pastry as in the last recipe. When the little balls are baked, cut a small round piece off the end of each, scoop out a little of the inside, and fill the cavity with some iced coffee. Replace the piece which was cut off, and dry as before. Time to bake, a quarter of an hour. Chowder (an American dish). — Fry a quarter of a pound of pickled pork, which has been cut into dice, and a small minced onion, in hot butter or lard, till they are a deep brown. Put half of this at the bottom of a saucepan, place over it a soup-plateful of mashed po- tatoes, and over that some thick slices of xm- cooked sea bass or turbot, about four pounds in weight, the remainder of the pork and onions, and on the top, a second layer of potatoes. Season with half a nutmeg grated, a tea- spoonful of powdered mace, five or six cloves, a table-spoonful of savoury herbs—of which one-third should be thyme, one-third parsley, and one-third marjoram—a tea-spoonful of salt, and four or five white peppercorns. Pour over all half a bottle of claret, half a bottle of ketchup, and svifficient water to cover it. Let it simmer gently until the fish is cooked. Pro- bable cost, pork, 1 Id. per pound. Sufficient for five or six persons. Christmas Bun, Scottish.—Put one tea-spoonful of salt into two pounds of flour, and rub into it three-quarters of a pound of butter; add a little warm water and two table-spoonfuls of fresh yeast, and knead it into a Ught paste. Put aside about one-third of this paste, and work into the rest one pound and a half of currants, stoned and dried, two pounds of stoned raisins, foiir ounces of blanched almonds chopped small, half a pound of candied lemon, citron, and orange together, aU finely minced, and a quarter of an ounce each of white pepper, ground ginger, and powdered cinnamon. When these are weU worked in, shape them into a cylindrical form like a cheese. Roll out the paste which was set aside, and put it round the bun so as to make a sort of case for it. Wet the edges, and fasten them together to make them lie quite flat. Prick some holes in the top, and run a skewer from the top to the bottom in two or three places. Flour some thick paper and wrap the bun in it, binding it well with tape to keep it in shape. Bake in a moderate oven. Time to bake, one hour and a half or more. Probable cost, 3s. for this quantity. Christmas Cake. —Beat one pound o2 butter into a cream, and mix with it three eggs well beaten, two pounds of flour-, one pound of currants stoned and dried, one pound of sugar, five small tea-spoonfuls of baking powder, and a quarter of a jnnt of milk. Put the mixture into a buttered dish, and bake it in a moderate oven. Tliis is a very good cake if intended to bo used soon, but it soon gets dry, and should not be kept in a damp pliico. Time to bake, about two hom-B. Sufficient for a good-sized cake. Probable cost, 28. 8d. Christmas Cake (another way).—Take five pounds of flour, mix with it a dessert- spoonful of salt, rub in three-quarters of a pound of butter, and ono pound of lard. I'ut in an ounce and a lialf of German yeast or half a pint of good fresh brewers' yeast, and knead as for common bread. If there is any difficulty about the yeast, baking powder may be used. CBBISTMAS CASE. allowing a heaped tea-spoonful of ordinary baking powder for every pound of material. If yeast is used, let the dough rise before adding the other ingredients. Mix in three poimds of currants, one pound and a haK of moist sugar, a whole nutmeg, a quarter of a poimd of candied lemon-peel fbiely minced, a table- spoonful of brandy, and four eggs well beaten. Butter the tins, and line them well with buttered paper. Bake in a moderate oven. Time to bake, about two hours. Probable cost, Is. 4d. per cake. Sufficient for four cakes. Christmas Dish (suitable for supper or luncheon at any time).—Take one pound of Swiss roll or sponge biscuit and half a pound of macaroons. Cut the roU into slices, and place these and the macaroons lightly at the bottom of a deep dish. Put half a pint of red currant jelly, half a pint of sherry, half a pint of raisin wine, and two table-spoonfuls of sifted sugar into a saucepan, and, when bail- ing, pour it over the biscuits. Let it. soak for some time, then pour over it a thick custard. Ornament withalmonds, blanched and quartered, stuck thickly into the custard. This dish is also very good without the custard. Time to soak, one hour and a half. Probable cost, 38., exclusive of the wine.CHB ( 137 ) CHB Christinas Plum Pudding.—The plum pudding is a uatioual dish, and is despised by foreign nations because they never can mfike it tit to eat. In almost every family there is a recipe for it, which has been handed down from mother to daughter through two or three generations, and which never has been and never will be equalled, much less surpassed, bv any other. Three or four recipes are here given, every one of which has been proved and approved. Every in- gredient composing these puddings should be fresh and good, as one bad article, and espe- cially one bad egg, will spoil the whole. The puddings are, we think, better when boiled "in moulds, which should be well buttered before the mixture is put in, should be quite full, and should be covered with one or two folds of paper floured and buttered, and then with a flom-ed pudding-cloth. When bread is used, which makes a pudding lighter than flour, a httle room should be allowed for swel- ling. A pinch of salt should always be remem- bered, as it brings out the flavour of the other ingredients. After it is tied in the cloth the pudding should be put into boiling water, and kept boiling until it is taken off, when it should be plunged quickly into a basin of cold water ; by this means it will be less likely to break when turned out of the mould. It is usual, before sending it to table, to make a little hole in the top an(i fill it with brandy, then light it, and serve it in a blaze. In olden time a sprig of arbutus, with a red berry on it, was stuck in the middle, and a twig of variegated holly, with berjies, placed on each side. This was done to keep away witches. It is a good plan to mix ^uch more than is needed, and to make several^puddings instead of one, boil all together, and warm one up when necessary. If well made, Christmas plum pudding will be good for twelve months. It should be boiled for eight or nine hours some days before it is wanted; and when it is to be used, plunged again into boiling water, and boiled for at least two hours. Christmas Plum Pudding.—Take one and a half pounds of bread-crumbs, half a pound of flour, two pounds of finely-shred beef suet, two pounds of stoned raisins, two pounds of currants, washed, picked, and dried, two pounds of sugar, a quarter of a pound of candied lemon and citron-peel, that is, two ounces of each, two small nutmegs grated, the juice of a lemon, and the rind finely chopped, a tea- ,^ spoonful of salt, two ounces of sweet almonds, • blanched and sliced, sixteen eggs, a glass of brandy, and as much milk as will wet it, but no more than that, as it makes the pudding heavy. It should be as stiff as paste. Mix aU the dry ingredients thoroughly, then add the eggs and milk, and, last of all, the brandy. Boil it, and keep boiling for ten hours. Suffi- cient for a largo family pudding (big enough for fourteen or sixteen persons) or four or five small ones. Probable cost, 63. 6d. Christmas Plum Pudding (another way).—Shred finely half a pound of beef suet with a little flour to prevent it sticking, add a pmch of salt, a quarter of a pound of stoned p * raisins, a quarter of a pound of sultanas, half a pound of currants, half a pound of bread- crumbs, two ounces of flour, two table-spoonfuls of sugar, 6ix sweet and six bitter almonds, blanched and shred finely, half a nutmeg grated, two ounces of candied lemon and citron, and the rind of half a lemon finely chopped. Mix thoroughly, then add four weU-beaten eggs and a wine-glassful of brandy. Let these stand for five or six hours, then add a cupful of milk, and boil for three hours. Pro- bable cost. Is. 8d., exclusive of the brandy. Sufficient for four or five persons. Christmas Plum Pudding (for children). — Shred finely three-quarters of a pound of beef suet, and add to it a pinch of salt, one pound and a half of bread- crumbs, half a pound of flour, three-quarters o£ CHRISTMAS PUDDING. a pound of muscatel raisins (these can be pur- chased loose, not in bunches; they are then almost as cheap as the ordinary- pudding- raisins, and the flavour is verj^ superior), three- quarters of a pound of currants, picked and dried, two ounces of candied lemon and citron together, and half a large nutmeg. Mix these thoroughly, then add four eggs and milk enough to moisten it, but not too much, or the- pudding -wall be heavy. Tie it in a pudding- cloth well floured, and boil for five or six hours^ Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for eight or ten children. Christmas Pudding, Economical and Good.—Shred very finely a quarter of a pound of beef-suet, add a quarter of a pound of flour and a quarter of a pound of finely- grated bread-crumbs, six ounces of currants,, picked and dried, six ounces of stoned raisins,, two table-spoonfuls of brown sugar, a quarter of a pound of mashed carrot and the same of mashed potatoes, one ounce of chopped candied lemon and one ounce of fresh lemon-rind, salt to taste, and a table-spoonful of treacle. Mix these ingredients well together, tie loosely in a floured cloth, boil for four hours, and serve with brandy sauce. If possible, let this- pudding be made a few hours before it is wanted. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Christmas Pudding. Teetotaller's, Small.—Take one pound of finely-grated bread-crumbs, pour over them a cupful of new milk, and let them soak until the millr is( 138 ) CHB CIN quite absorbed, thon add a quarter of a pound of moist sugar, lialf a jjouud of linoly-ahrod beof suot, half a pouud of muscatol raiHias, a quarter of a nutmeg grated, and half of the thill riud of u lumou chopped Binall. Mix all well together, thou add four well-beaten eggs, and boil at least five hours. Servo with good melted butter, mixed with a little sugar, and, if liked, the jiuco of a lemon. Probable cost. Is. 4d. Sufficient for foiu- or five persons. Christopher North's Sauce for Meat or Gravy.—Put a dessort-spoou- t'ul of sifted loaf sugar, a salt-spoonful of salt, and a heaped salt-spoouful of cayenne popper into a jar. I^Iix them thoroughly, thon add to them very gradually two table-spoonfuls of Harvey's sauce, a dessert-spoonful of mush- room ketchup, a table-spoonful of fresh lemon- juice strained, and a glass of port. Place the jar in a saucepan of boiling water, and let it remain until quite hot, but do not let it boil. If bottled when it is made, it will keep good for sevei-al days. It may be used for ducks, geese, j)ork, or any broil. If the flavour of cayenne is liked, the quantities may be doubled. The sauce should be made the night before it is used. Time to heat, about a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, 6d., for tliis quantity. Sufficient for a quai'ter of a pint of sauce. Cider Cup. — Put a slice of crumb of bread toasted at the bottom of a large jug; grate half a small nutmeg over it, and place on it two or three slices of thin lemon-rind and half a dozen limips of sugar. Pour over it two Mine-glassfuls of sherry, one of brandy, the juice of a lemon, a bottle of soda-water, and, last of all, a quart of cider. Mix well, put a sprig of borage or balm into it, and add a few lumps of pure ice. This should be used as soon as it is made. Time to make, ten minutes. Probable cost, 8d., exclusive of the brandy, sherry, and cider. Sufficient for a two- quart cup. Cider Vinegar.—Put half a pound of sugar into a half gallon jar. Pill it with. cider. Shake it well, and let it ferment for three or four months; the result will be two quarts of good, nicely-flavoured vinegar. Probable cost, od. per pint. Cinnamon Biscuits.—Whisk six eggs with half a pound of sifted sugar, a quarter of an ounce of powdered cinnamon, and a wine- glassful of rose or orange-flower water. Add about half a pound of flour, to form a paste. lioU this out thin, cut it into little cakes in fancy shapes, and bake them on a buttered tin in a moderate oven. Bake them for about twenty minutes, when they will be lightly bro'micd. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for an ordinary dessert-dish. Cinnamon Cake.—Poat the whites of six eggs to a firm froth, and stir in half a pound of finely-sifted sugar, eight ounces of fine flour, and half a pound of good butter, oiled but not hot. Mix these lightly together, then add powdered cinnamon enough to colour the cake slightly. Pour the mixture into a well-but- tered mould, and bake it in a good oven. Time to bake, forty minutes. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for one moderate-sized cake. Cinnamon Cake (another way).—Mix tliorouglily Imlf a jjuund of powdered sugar, half li pound of line flour, half a pound of fr..-Kh butter, a quarter of an ounce of jiowdored cin- namon, the grated ])eel of a quarter of a Biiiall lemon, and the whites of eight eggs beaten to a solid froth. If jjrefori'ed, a glass of brandy or rum may bo added. Pour the mixtuie into a buttered mould, and bake it in a good oven. Two eggs and a cui>ful of sour cream may be used instead of eight eggs, and the mixtui-e may be spread on a flat, well-buttered tin, instead of being put into a mould. Time, half an hour. Probable cost, la. lOd. Sufli- cient for a quart mould. Cinnamon Cordial.—Pour three penny- worth of oil of cinnamon upon eight or nine large lumps of sugar, and put them into a large bottle with a quart of spirits and half a pound of sugar boiled to a syrup, with a cupful of water. Shake all well together, and let thcj bottle remain in a cool place for a few days; then strain or filter the liquid until it becomes bright and clear. Bottle for use. Time to infuse, a week. Probable cost, micertain, de- pending on the spirits. Sufficient for one quart of cordial. Cinnamon Drops.—Mix half an ounce of powdered cinnamon, or half a tea-s2)oonful of oU of cinnamon, with a pound of pounded sugar and half a pint of water; boil the syrup to a candy height or until it snaps when put into cold water; then spread it on a large flat dish, well oiled, and score it, before it hardens, into small squares, or drop it evenly on paper. Time to boil, aboi^t a quarter of an hour. Pro- bable cost, 8d. Cinnamon, Essence of. — Put two drachms of oU of cinnamon into four oimces of strong spirit. Bottle for use. Sufficient, two or three dx'ops will flavour half a pint of sauce or liquid. Cinnamon Ice Cream.—Mix half an ounce of powdered cinnamon vnth. half a pound of sifted sugar, the yolks of two eggs, and half a pint of new milk; boil the custard over a slow fire, stirring it all the time imtil it thickens ; then add one pint of thick cream and the juice of a small lemon. Pour into a mould and freeze. Time to prepare, twenty minutes. Probable cost, 2s. 2d. Sufficient for a quart of ice cream. Cinnamon Sauce.—Boil a stick of cin- namon, which has been broken into a dozen pieces, in half a pint of water for half an hour; add two glassfuls of sherry, two bay- leaves, and two table-spoonfids of pounded sugar. Simmer gently for ten minutes, strain, and serve. Probable cost, exclusive of the M-ine, 3d. Sufficient for a pint of sauce. Cinnamon Tablet.— This is made in the same waj- as cinnamon drops, but instead of being scored into small squares or fonncd into drops, it is marked into squares of about one iuch and a half.( 139 ) cm OLA •i Cinnamon, Tincture of.—1 ut three ounces of bruised ciimaniou into a bottle ol the best French brandy. It wiU be ready for use in a week. The probable cost wiU depend upon the quality of the brandy. Sufficient, two tea-spoonfuls mav be put into a little cold water, or one tea-spoonful into a glass of wme. The latter, if beaten up with the yolk of an egg, and sweetened, is agreeable and restorative. Citron Cake.—MLn; the well-beaten yolks of six eggs with half a pound of pounded and sifted sugar, and ten ounces of line flour; add half a pound of fi-esh butter beaten to a cream, fom- ounces of candied citron chopped small, a wine-glassful of brandy, and the whites of the eggs beaten to a firm froth. Mix thoroughly, pour the mixture into a weU-buttered mould, and bake it in a good oven. Time to bake, about three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, exclusive of the brandy. Is. lOd. Suffi- cient for a medium-sized mould. Citron Pudding.—Mix two table-spoon- fuls of flour veiy smoothly with the beaten yolks of six eggs. Add very gradually one pint of new milk or cream, a quarter of a pound of citron chopped smaU, and two table- spoonfuls of sugar. Mix thoroughly, pour the batter into well-buttered cups, and bake in a quick oven. Time to bake, about twenty minutes, or till set. Probable cost, if made with milk. Is. 2d. Sufficient for six persons. Citron and Almond Pudding.—This pudding is made in the same way as the pre- ceding one, with the addition of a dozen sweet almonds blanched and poimded. In both cases, if it is not wished to have a rich pudding, a smaller number of eggs may be used. Civet of Hare.—Cut the hare into neat small pieces. Take about half a pound of streaky bacon, which has been soaked in cold water a little while to make it firm, and divide it into small pieces. Pry these in a saucepan until lightly browned, add the pieces of hare, and when these also are brown, strain the gravy which has come out, and thicken it with three ounces of flour. Moisten it with a couple of glasses of good stock and port, add a bimch of parsley, half a pint of button onions, half a pint of small mushrooms, two cloves, a tea-spoonful of salt, a drachm of cayenne, and the juice of a Seville orange. Bring the liquid to a boil, then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let it simmer gently until the meat is sufficiently cooked, lleduce the sauce before serving, if necessary. A clove of garlic is often added to the dish. Time, if the hare is young, two and a half to three hours; if old, a longer time should be allowed. Probable cost of the hare, 4s. to 6s. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Clams.—Clams are a kind of cockle, and are to be found on the west coast of Ireland and Scotland, and in Devonshire, Cornwall, and some parts of Wales. Though they figure largely in American cookery, they arc not much used in England; but persons living on the sea-shoro might make several by no means despicable dishes from them. Soyer says that they "are much superior in flavour to the oyster, and, if eaten raw, should bo about the same size ; but, if larger, should be made into soup, or cooked in the same way as the oyster." In America they are stewed. The clams are put into a stewpan, with a little water at the bottom of the pan, then boiled for twenty-five or thii-ty minutes, the scum carefully removed, and the juice seasoned with pepper and salt. Clams may be fried in batter with egg and bread-crumbs. Clam Soup.—Wash as many clams as may bo required, and put them into a saucepan with just sufficient boiling water to keep them from burning. Boil them for a few minutes, and when the shells open and the juice rims out, take the clams from the shells and chop them small. Strain the liquor, and stir into it the chopped clams ; season it with pepper, and thicken with it a little butter rolled in flour, and let it boil a quarter of an hour. Put little pieces of toasted bread in the tureen before ponring the soup into it. The flavour of the soup may be varied by the addition of onions or celery, or a little milk may be added, or the yolks of well-beaten eggs. Soup may be made in the same v/ay from whelks and cockles. Time, half an hour. Sufficient, a quart of soup for three persons. Clarendon Pudding.—Pour a large breakfast-cupful of boiling milk upon three table-spoonfuls of sifted sugar and the thin rind of a lemon. Let it stand until it cools; then stir it gi-adually into four weU-beaten eggs. Remove the crust from two French rolls, cut them into slices, and butter each slice thickly on both sides. Butter a plain round mould, stick some rasins on the inside in lines, and fill the mould with layers of roUs, raisins, and custard. Soak for an hour, then cover the pudding with a floured cloth and boil or steam it. Time to boil or steam, one hour and a half. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for four or five persons. Claret Cup.—Pour a bottle of claret into a large jug, and add two glasses of sherrj-, brandy, or any wine, spirit, or liquor that may be preferred, and half a glass of marischino. Put in the thin rind of a lemon and two table- spoonfuls of powdered sugar. Let it stand for half an hour till the sugar is dissolved, then put in a sprig of borage, bahn, or verbena, or a little sliced cucumber. Just before using, add a bottle of soda or seltzer ^ater and a large piece of ice. Sliced nectarines, peaches, or rasp- berries may be used instead of lemon-rind. Claret, Mulled.—Put two drachms of cinnamon, two drachms of ground ginger, and two drachms of cloves into a saucepan with a breakfast-cupful of cold water, six ounces of loaf sugar, and the thin rind of an orange. Boil all to a syrup, being careful that the scum is removed as it rises; then add two hottles of claret. Take the wine from the fire just before it boils, and serve it at once. Time, about half an hour. Probable cost, 4d., ex- clusive of the claret. Claret Puffs.—Mix a pint of claret with the same quantity of thick cream. Add three table-spoonfuls of pounded sugar, or more if liked, and let the mixture stand some hours.CLA ( 1^ ) CLI Whisk it to a froth, and as it rises take it off »md put it on a siovc. When it has drained, heap it on a glass dish, and pour some thick croani round tho puffs to lloat thorn. Timo to stand Leforo whisking, twolvo hours. Prohablo cost, 28. Cd., oxchisivo of the clarot. Sufficient for a good-sized dish. Claret Sauce. — Whisk two eggs thoroughly, and put Avith them a cupful of claret. Put tho mixture into a saucepan with half a tea-spoonful of finely-grated lonion-rind, a heaped tablo-spoonfid of sugar, and a little pounded cinnamon. AVliisk tho sauco over tho fire tUl it is well frothed, and when it is on the point of boiling pour it over tho pudding. Claret is an excellent wine for sauces, as it contains very little spirit and a gi-eat deal of liavoiir. Time, ten minutes. Probable cost, 3d., exclusive of the wine. Sufficient for a smaU pudding. Clear Soup (excellent).—Take one quart of flavoured stock, made either from bones or fresh meat. Skim it, and pour it without sediment into a saucepan. Whilst it is cold, stir in half a pound of lean beef, without either fat or sinew, and cut very small; a carrot scraped to pulp; a turnip and a leek cut into dice. Keep sturing tiU the liquor is on the point of boiling, draw the saucepan back, skim, then simmer gently for twenty minutes. Strain slowly through a jelly-bag tUl clear. The soup will become cloudy if allowed to stand long before being used. If liked, it can bo clarified with white of egg, as in the next recipe, but white of egg im- poverishes soup, while beef enriches it. Clear Soup (made from bones).—Take the bones of a piece of roast beef, which should ■weigh, before cooking, seven or eight pounds, or, if this is not at hand, one pound of fresh bones; break them into small pieces, and put them into a stewpan, with three quarts of cold water. Let the liquid boU, then draw the saucepan to the' side of the fire, and let it simmer gently for six hours. Very carefully remove the scmn as it rises. Strain it, and leave it untU. the next day. Remove every particle of fat, and put it into the stewpan (being careful to leave any sediment at the bottom), with a large carrot cut in slices, a turnip, an onion, and half a drachm of bniised celery-seed tied in muslin. Let these simmer for another hour and a haK; if the liquid is very much reduced, add a little cold water, so as to keep wp the quantity to three pints. Season it while boiling with pepper, salt, and a small lump of sugar. Strain it again, and skim it airefuUy from time to time. In order to make it quite clear and bright, whisk the whites of two eggs with half a pint of cold water. Stir this briskly into the soup when it is just warm. Let it boil, and gently lift off the scum as it rises. Draw the stewpan back a little, and keep it boiling gently for half an hour. Let it stand to settle, and strain it through a jelly-bag two or three times if necessary. It ought to look like shcrr>'. The white of one egg is required for a pint of soup. Add a tca-spoonfid of Licbig's extract, and a little browning, if tho colour is too light, but caro must be taken in browning it. This soup may bo varied to any ex tent. Carrots, turnips, onions, celery, green poa«, asparagus, vermicelli, or macaroni may be added, and tho soup will then take the name of the vegetable which is put into it. Macaroni and vei-micelli should be boiled Bcpanitely, or they will spoil tho clearness. Sufficient for three pints. Probable cost, exclusive of the bones, and for clear soup, 2d. per pint. Clear Soup (made from fresh meat).—Cut three pounds of the shin of beef, two pounds of veal, and two slices of ham into small pieces, and lay them at the bottom of a stewpan with a lump of butter; put the bones with the meat, and also a couple of large carrots and turnips sliced, half a drachm of bruised celery-seed tied in muslin, and an onion stuck with three cloves. Cover the saucepan, and set it on the fire. Let the meat brown on both sides, and when there is a brown glaze at the bottom of the pan, put a little hot water to it. Let it come just to the point of boiling, then add a little cold water. Skim it carefully, and, when nearly boiling, add more cold water; repeat this, and remove the scum till no more rises, and then add three quarts of water. Simmer gently by the side of the fire for four or five hours. Strain through a jelly-bag, but do not squeeze or press it at all, and let the liquid remain until the next day, W'hen every particle of fat must be removed, and any sediment or impurities which may be at the bottom of the basin left untouched. When it is to bo used, warm it, and, if necessary, clarify it, but if the directions given have been attended to, namely, the meat boiled gently and without ceasing, the scum removed, the Hquid gently strained, and the sediment left out, the soup will be as clear as spring water, and of a bright golden colour. As was said in the last recipe this soup may be varied to any extent {see Clear Soup, made from bones). Turned vege- tables are generally served m clear soups. For this purpose dried vegetables are to be recom- mended. {See Vegetables, Dried.) Season, while boiling, with pepper, salt, and a piece of sugar. Probable cost, 4s. Sufficient for two quarts. Cleton Pudding.—Put a pint of new milk into a saucci^an with the thin rind of half a lemon. Add, while cold, a quai-ter of a poimd of ground rice, and stir the milk over the fire until it thickens; remove the lemon-rind, and stir into the liquid a piece of butter about the size of an egg, then pour it into a bowl to cool. Whisk four eggs thoroughly, and add them to the pudding, together with two table-spoonfuls of sifted sugar, a wine-glassful of brandy, and twelve sweet almonds blanched and poimdcd. Butter a pie-dish rather thickly, pour the mixture in, and lay two or three thin slices of candied citron on tho top of tho pudding. Bake in a good oven for half an hom-. Probable cost, lOd., exclu.=ive of the brandy. Sufficient for four or five persons. Clifton Puffs.—Mix together half a pound each of chopped apples, stoned raisins, picked currants, sifted sugar, and finely-chopped candied lemon. Add a quarter of a pound of( 141 ) CLO coc sweet almonds blanched and pounded, half a nutmeg grated, and a glass of sherry or brandy. When these are thoroughly mixed, put them into a covered jar for two or thi-ee hours. Make some pastry with twelve ounces of baked floui-, two ounces of groiuid rice, two ounces of sweet Abnonds blanched and pounded, and a table- spoonful of sifted sugar. Mix these to a paste with half a pint of water, and the juice of a lemon. Lay it on the baking board, and put half a pound of butter in the middle, turn over the sides, and roll it out, not too tliin, then fold it in thi-ee, and roll it again, twice repeating; place another half pound of butter on the pastry in little lumps, which must be sprinkled over with flour, the pastry folded in three, then rolled lengthways and sideways, the turning over and roUing to be repeated three times. Put it into a cool place between the rolls {see Puff Paste). When it is to be made up, roU it out to the thickness of a penny piece. Divide it into about two dozen squares, place a little of the mixture upon each square, and turn one comer over, wetting and pressing the edges to make them stick, so as to make a three- cornered tart. Place them on a well-buttered tin, and bake in a good hot oven. Before fierving, they may have a little sugar icing placed on each puff, and be returned to the oven for a few minutes to dry. When the pastry is cooked the puffs are done. Sufficient for two dozen puffs. Probable cost, 2d. each. Clove Cordial.—Put two drachms of cassia buds, two drachms of bruised cloves, a tea-spoonful of peppercorns, and a blade of mace into a bottle, and pour over them a little iot water. Let them remain near the fire, closely corked, for forty-eight hours, then strain the liquid into three pints of spirit, and add two table-spoonfuls of sugar. Two or three drops of prepared cochineal may be added to give the cordial a brighter colour. Probable cost, 3d. or 4d., exclusive of the spirit. Sufficient for two quarts. Cloves, Tincture of.—Put three ounces of bruised cloves into a quart of brandy, and let them soak for a fortnight. Strain, and bottle it for use. Or, dissolve one ounce of fresh oil of cloves in one pint of rectified spirits of wine. The probable cost will depend on the strength and quality of the spirit. Two or thjeo drops will be sufficient to flavour mulled wine, &c. Coblentz Pudding.—Nearly fill an or- dinarj' pie-dish with apples, pared, cored, and sliced. Spread a little finely-sifted sugar over them, and place five or six lumps of butter about the size of a nut amongst them. Cut the very thin rind of a lemon into narrow strips, and strew these over the apples. If hard, add a little oold water and bake till soft. Pour a pint of boiling milk (in which a little lemon-rind has been soaked) over two table-spoonfuls of arrow- root, mixed with a little cold milk, stir it imtil smooth and thick, sweeten it, and when cool pour it over the apples, and bake it a nice brown. The appearance of this pudding will bo improved if a little thick custard is laid upon it before it is sent to table. Time to bake, half an hour. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Coburg Pud<^ing8.—Mix half a pound of fine flour very smoothly with a little water, and add gi-adually one pint of new milk, four ounces of butter, half a pound of currants, thi-ee table-spoonfuls of sugar, six well-beaten eggs, a quarter of a nutmeg grated, and a table- spoonful of brandy. Mix thoroughly, pour the mixture into some well-buttered cups, and bake in a good oven. Time to bake, half an hour. Probable cost. Is. lOd., exclusive of the brandy. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Cochineal Colouring. — Boil fifteen grains of powdered cochineal in half a pint of water; add a piece of alum about the size of a nut, and one drachm and a half of cream of tartar. Let the ingredients boil very slowly for half an hour; strain the liquid, and bottle it closely. Keep it in a cool place. It will keep better if three or four lumps of sugar are boiled with it. Sufficient for nearly half a pint. Cock-a-Leekie.—Boil a young fowl in two quarts of white stock until it is tender. Take it up and put it aside. Wash two bunches of fine leeks. Trim away the roots, and part of the heads, and cut them into one-inch lengths. Put them into the broth, and add half a pound of boiled rice, and a little pepper and salt. Boil half an hour. Cut the fowl into neat joints, put it into the soup, boU up, and serve very hot. The above is true Cock-a-Leekie Soup. The soup bearing this name is, however, as often served without the fowl as with it. Time, one hoiir and a half. Probable cost, 38. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Cockles, Boiled.—Cockles should be washed in two or three waters, and the shells well scrubbed vnth. a hard brush, then put into salt and water, not over strong, to cleanse themselves. They are best roasted on a tin laid on a stove, and eaten while hot, with bread and butter and a little pepper and vinegar. To boil them, put them in a clean saucepan, with a table-spoonful of water at the bottom of the pan, and a clean towel laid over them. Shake the saucepan constantly, to pre- vent them burning. As soon as the shells open they are cooked enough. They may be dressed in all the ways, excepting frying, practised with oysters and mussels. Time, five minutes. Probable cost, 3d. per quart. Sufficient, allow one pint for each person. Cockle Sauce.—Prepare a gallon of cockles as for boiling {see the previous recipe). Set them on the fire, and when the shells open, strain the liquid from them, throw the shells away, and strain the liquid through musUn, to clear it from sand. Stir in a pint of good melted butter,- and add a table-spoonfiil of vinegar, or the juice of a lemon, and half a tea-spoonful of white pepper. Stii- the sauce over the fire for two or three minutes, but do not let it boU, and serve it with cod or had- dock. Time, about twenty minutes altogether. Sufficient for four pounds of fish. Probable cost of cockles, 3d. per quart. Cockles, Pickled.—Prepare the cockles AS for sauce {see the previous recipe); strain.( 142 ) coc coo tho liquid thi-ough imislin, and put it into a BJiucopan with an equal (juaiitity of vincf^ar, a blade of maeo, and a wino-glasHful of shorry or brandy to ovory pint of liquid. Lot this boil. Put the coeklos into bottlos, cover thorn with tho liquid, and cork thorn closely. Time to open the cockles, five minutes. Probable cost, 3d. per quart. Cockles may bo used to make fish-sauce whon oysters aro out of season. Cocoa.—Mix two tca-apoonfuls of prepared cocoa with a littlo cold milk, beat it with the back of a spoon until quite smooth, then pour over it equal quantities of boiling milk and water sulHciont to fill a breakfast-cup. Stir well together. Tho rock cocoa miist bo scraped into powder before it is used, then made as above. Time, five minutes. Cocoa Wibs.—Cocoa nibs, or shells, aro the coverings of the cocoa kernel. They should be soaked in water for twelve hours, then boUed in the same water till it is reduced to half the quantity. When cool, the oily matter should be taken from the top, as it would be likely to disagree with an invalid. It is then served like chocolate. Time to boil, five hoirrs. A quarter of a pound of nibs should be boiled with three quarts of water. Probable cost, Is. per poimd. Cocoa-nut Cake.—Mix one pound of sifted loaf-sugar with three-quarters of a pound of the white part of cocoa-nut grated. Beat the whites of six eggs to a firm froth, and mix all well together. Drop the mixture on paper in rough knobs about the size of a walnut, and bake then in a slow oven. Time to bake, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost. Is. 4d. per pound. Sufficient, one dozen and a half for a dessert-dish. Cocoa-nut Candy.—Put one pound of the best loaf sugar, broken into lumps, into a saucepan, and pour over it half a pint of spring water. Let it stand for a quarter of an hour, then place it on the fire and allow it to boil for five or six minutes. Remove the scum and boil the sugar until it is thick and white, then stir into it a quarter of a pound of the white of a fresh cocoa-nut finely grated. Stir it unceasingly until it rises in a mass in the pan, then spread it as quickly as possible upon sheets of paper which have been dried before the fire. Re- move the paper before the candy is quite cold. Let it dry, then store it in tin boxes. The grated cocoa-nut should be spread out and allowed to dry for two or throe days before it is used for candy. Cocoa-nut Cheesecakes.—Pare off the rind from a fresh cocoa-nut, grate the white part, and put it into a perfectly clean saucepan with its weight in sifted sugar and the milk, or, if this is not quite sweet, two or three spoonfuls of water. Let it simmer, stirring it gently until tender. Wlien the mixture is cool, add the yolks of two eggs well beaten and a spoonful of orango-flowcr water. Line some patty pans with good puff paste, and put a little of the mixture into each. Bake in a good oven. Sift a little sugar over the cheese- cakes before baking them. Time to boil tho cocoa-nut, about throe-quarterB of an hour Probable cost, 4d. to 6d. Cocoa-nut Cream.—Put a cupful of cold spring water into a saucepan with the thin rind of a quarter of a small lemon, throe table- spoonfuls of sifted sugar, a small piece of stick cinnamon, and a table-spoonful of the white of the coco!t-nut shcod. Boil gently to a thick syrup; then add tho milk of two cocoa-nuts thickened with a table-spoonful of corn-flour or arrowroot. Let all boil up togotlier for a minute or two, add a cupful of cream, strain, and stir until cold. Just before serving, put with tho cream half a wine-glassful of brandy and three or four drops of vanilla essence. Time, half an hour. Probable cost. Is. 6d.. exclusive of tho brandy. This is a good sauco for a sweet pudding. Cocoa-nut Cream (another way).—Put one pound of finely-sifted sugar into a sauce- pan with three-quarters of a pint of water, and as soon as the sugar is dissolved, stir in the white part of a fresh cocoa-nut lightly grated and the thin rind of a small orange. Let the nut stew tmtil tender. Time, half an hour. Probable cost, lOd. Cocoa-nut Gingerbread. — Put one pound of golden syrup, a quarter of a pound of butter, and a quarter of a pound of moist sugar into a saucepan. Let tiiem heat very slowly until the butter is q\xite melted, when it must be well mixed with the syrup, and the mixture poured into a bowl containing half a pound of ground rice, half a pound of the best flour, one ounce of ground ginger, a pinch of salt, a dessert-spoonful of baking-powder, the rind of half a lemon cut into small pieces, and one ounce of chopped candied lemon. Mix thoroughly, put the paste on one side, and, when it is quite cold, stir into it the white part of a large cocoa-nut finely grated. "VSTien it is well beaten, drop the paste upon a well-buttered tin in small cakes, and bake these in a moderate oven. Time to bake, about half an hour. Pro- bable cost. Is. 3d. per pound. Sufficient, eighteen or twenty cakes for a dessert-dish. Cocoa-nut Macaroons.—Take a fresh cocoa-nut, grate it finely, and allow half a pound of finely-sifted sugar and the whites of four eggs beaten to a firm froth to every quarter of a pound of cocoa-nut. Mix the ingredients thoroughly. Drop little balls of the paste xipon a well-buttered tin about two inches apart from one another. Bake in a moderate oven. When the macaroons are lightly browned all over they will be ready. Time to bake, about twenty minutes. Pro- bable cost, Is. 6d. per pound. Sufficient, eighteen or twenty for a dessert-dish. Cocoa - nut Milk Flavour. — This exceedingly delicious flavouring is obtained by boiling the grated white part of the nut with fresh sweet milk, and it may bo used in the composition of bisciuts, cakes, custards, blanc- manges, &c. To six ounces of the nut finely grated add two quarts of milk. Simmer the liquid slowly to extract the flavour without reducing the quantity of milk. Do not mix the mUk from the nut until it has been tastedCOD ( H3 ) CGC and found pure and sweet. It should bo sti-ained through a .fine sieve, and the nut squeezed dry. Cocoa-nut Paste.—Drain the milk from a large cocoa-nut, pare off the brown skin, smd shred the white part as finely as possible; put a pound of sugar into a saucepan with a cupful of water, the shi-ed cocoa-nut, and if it is per- fectly sweet, the milk of the cocoa-nut. Let the mixture boil gently imtil the syrup seems likely to return to sugar, when the whisked whites of two eggs may be added. Turn the paste on a dish and dry at the mouth, of a slow oven. Cocoa-nut Pound-cake.—Beat half a pound of fresh butter to a cream, add gradually one poimd of fine flour, one pound of sifted sugar, two tea-spoonfids of baking-powder, a small pinch of salt, a tea-spoonful of finely- chopped lemon-rind, the white part of a cocoa- nut tinely-gi-ated, foui" eggs well beaten, and a cupful of new milk. Butter some square tins, and Une them with buttered paper, spread the mixture in them about an inch and a half in depth, and bake in a good oven. When they are sufficiently baked, spread some sugar icing over them, and return them to the oven for a minute or two to dry. Time to bake, from thirty to forty minutes. Probable cost, 28. 3d. for this quantity'. Sufficient for two or three small cakes, or one large one. Cocoa-nut Pudding.—Mix two eggs well beaten with a cupful of new milk and the milk of the cocoa-nut, if the latter is quite sweet. Take off the brown skin of the nut, and grate the white part as finely as possible, llix it with three table-spoonfids of finely- grated bread-crumbs, thi-ee table-spoonfuls of sifted sugar, two ounces of butter beaten to cream, six ounces of Muscatel raisins, and a tea- spoonful of lemon-rind thinly sliced. Beat all well together, pour the mixture into a well- buttered pie-di^, and bake it in a rather slow oven. Turn it out, and serve with sifted sugar strewn over it. This pudding may be either baked or boiled. Time to bake, one hour and a half; to boil, three hours. Probable cost, Is. 3d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Cocoa-nut Pudding (another way).— Take a large, fresh cocoa-nut, remove the brown skin, and grate the white part as finely as pos- sible ; mix very thoroughly a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar, and the grated cocoa-nut; when they are quite smoothly mixed, add a pint of new mUk or cream, five eggs well beaten, a tiny pinch of salt, and the eighth of a nutmeg grated. Pour the mixture into a well-buttered dish, and bake in a good oven. This pudding may be eaten either hot or cold. Time to bake, about forty minutes. Probable cost. Is. 8d., if made with milk. Sufficient for five or six persons. Cocoa-nut Sauce.—Grate finely the white part of a cocoa-nut, and boil it gently, stirrin"- it well, in a cupful of water, in which bis been dissolved its weight, before boiling, in sugar; press it through a sieve ; add a cupful of thick cream and the beaten yolk of an egg ; put the mixture on the fire for a minute or two, but do not let it boil after the egg is added, for fear it should curdle. Time, altogether, half an hour. Probable cost, cocoa-nut, 4d. or 6d. Sufficient for a moderate-sized puddiag. Cocoa-nut Soup.—Grate verj- finely the white of a fresh cocoa-nut, and simmer it gently for an hour in some good stock, allowing a' quarter of a pound of cocoa-nut for every half gallon of stock. Strain the liquid, and thicken it with some ground rice; half a pound of ground rice will be enough for this quantity. Season it with a little salt and cayenne, and a small tea-spoonful of mace. Just before serving, di-aw it from the fire, and add a cupful of thick cream. Time, altogether, two hours. Probable cost. Is. per quart. Sufficient, this quantity for nine or ten persons. Cocoa-nut Soup (another way).—Boil the stock and the cocoa-nut toge.ther, as in the last recipe. Thicken the soup with ground rice, being careful to mix it smoothly with a little cold stock or water before putting it into the boiling Liquid. Add two table-spoonfuls of lemon-juice, two table-spoonfuls of soy, a nut- meg grated, and a little salt and cayenne. Just before serving, add a tumblerful of sherry. Time, altogether, two hours. Probable cost. Is. per quart, exclusive of the sherry. Sufficient for nine or ten persons. Cocoa-nut Spongecakes—Take a largo fresh cocoa-nut, remove the brown sldn, and grate it on a perfectly clean, bright grater as finely aa possible; beat the yolks of six eggs, and be sure that they are perfectly fresh; stir in gradually, and mix thoroughly, half a pound of sifted sugar, a pinch of salt, half a tea-spoonful of grated lemon-rind, and the yolks of the eggs. Beat the mixture for a quarter of an hour, then add, by degrees, a quarter of a pound of flour, and the grated cocoa-nut, and last of all, the whites of the eggs whisked till fii-m. Line square tins with buttered paper, pour in the mixture, and bake the cakes immediately, in a brisk oven. Do not open the door of the oven until the cakes are baked. Time, about half an hour. Probable cost. Is, 4d. Sufficient for one moderate-sized cake, or two small ones. Cod.—Cod comes into season about tho beginning of October, when other large fish are going out. If the weather is cold, it is then very good; it is at its very best about Christ- mas, but goes off from the end of February or the middle of March. It is essentially a winter fish, and is not to be had in the hot months of the year. The best cod are those which are plump and round at the tail, the sides having a ribbed appearance, with yellow spots upon a pure sMn, In order to ascertain if the fish is fresh, press the finger into the flesh, and if it rises immediately and feels firm and stiff, it is fresh. It is much better not to cook a cod whole. Tho upper part is so much thicker than the tail that the latter would be boiled to rags before the rest was cooked. The head and shoulders are generally boiled; the rest may be fried or stewed in slices. Epicures look out for the sound, the glutinous parts about the head, and the tongue. A little salt should be rubbedCOD COD ( 144 ) down the bono and on the thick part as soon as the lish comes into thu huuso. Cod (a la Bcchainol).—Romovo tho flosh from tho boues, und break it into convouioiit pieces. Put a cupful of white stock nicoly seasoued, and a cupful of new milk, into a saucepan ; tltickon it with a little floui- and butter, put tlio pieces of fish into it, and lot them remain until quite hot, but the sauce must not be allowed to boil. Servo with tho sauce and fish in tho middle of a hot dish, and place a border of mashed potatoes round it. Tune, twenty minutes. Cod (a la Cremo).—Boil a slice of cod, and, while it is warm, break it into convenient-sized pieces, or tho remains of cold cod may be used instead. Put a pint of now milk into a sauce- pan, with a blade of mace, a tea-spoonful of i Siilt, and half the rind of a small lemon. Let it stand by the side of the fire till tho milk is hot and the flavour of the lemon and mace is drawn ' out; then strain it into a basin. Put a piece of butter the size of a large egg into a sauce- pan, and, when it is melted, mix two table- spoonfuls of flour very smoothly with it; add the milk gradually till the sauce is of the proper thickness; let it boil a few minutes, then put in the pieces of fish. Let them heat through. Serve with sippets of toasted bread. Time, half an hour. Probable cost, exclusive of the fish, 6d. Sufficient for four persons. Cod (a I'Espagnole).—Take one or two slices of cod about an inch in thickness, or the tail end of the cod, romovo the skin, dredge a little flmii- DVi'V tlie fish, and fry it in hot butter or lard until nicely browned. Take it out gently with an egg-slice, di-aiu it, and put it into a saucepan with as much good brown gravy, boiling, as will swim it. Add a little salt and cayenne, the juice of half a lemon, a lump of sugar, an onion stuck with two cloves, and half a tumblerful of port. Simmer very softly till the fish is sufficiently cooked; take it out, place it on a hot dish, strain the gravy, thickening it with a little browned butter, and serve unmediately. Claret may be substi- tuted for the port, if preferred, or the wine may be omitted altogether, and the sauce flavoured -with ketchup. Time, altogether, half an hour. Probable cost of cod, when in full season, 8d. per pound. Sufficient, two slices for four jiersons. Cod (a la Fran(jaise).—Take two slices of cod about an inch and a half in thickness. Put them in salt and water for a few minutes, then drain, and fry them in hot butter till they are half cooked. Cover them with good stock, stew them until tender, then place them on a hot dish, and pour over them a pint of sauce, made as follows:—Put a breakfast-cupful of nicely- flavoured stock into a saucepan with half the quantity of thick cream; let it boil, draw it back, and when cool, add salt and pepper, half a tea-spoonful of lemon, half a tea-spoonful of gai-lic \'inegar, and half a tea-spoonful of sifted sugar. Time, altogether, from forty to fifty minutes. Probable cost of cod, 8d. per pound. Sufficient for four or five persons. Cod (a la Slaitro d'Hotel).—Boil two slices of cod, as in the last recipe. Wash some fresh green par.sley in two or thieo waters. Chop it small, and knead two table-spoonfuls of it with two ounces of fresh butter, au ounce of flour, a little salt and cayenne, and tho juice of half a lemon. Put this mixture into a saucepan with half a pint of milk, and stir it over a gentle fire until it is on the point of boiling. Add anotlier half ounce of butter, and when it is melted pour tho sauce over tlie fish and serve. Tho sauce may bo made by stirring a table- spoonful of finely-chopped parsley in a pint of good melted butter. Mix well, season with salt and cayenne, add the juice of half ii lemon, and, j ust before serving, draw tho sauce bpck, and add, very gradually, the well-beaten yolks of two eggs. Time, altogether, about forty minutes. Probable cost, about 8d. per pound. Sufficient for four or five persons. Cod (a la Proven^alo), Cold Meat Cookery. —Remove the skin and bones from the remains of cold cod, and break it into convenient-sized pieces. Mince finely equal quantities of sliallot, young onions, or chives, parsley, and lemon- peel. Add a little grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper, and mix all well together with two table-spoonfuls of salad-oil. Place this in a pie-dish, put in the pieces of fish, and bake in a moderate oven. Serve very hot, with lemon- juice squeezed over the fish. Time, three- quarters of an hour. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of the cold fish. Sufficient for three or four persons. Cod (au Gratin).—Take the remains of cold cod, remove the skin and bones, and break the flesh into convenient-sized pieces. Butter a pie-dish rather thickly; place in it alternate layers of cod and oyster sauce until the dish is full, flavouring each layer with salt, cayenne, and a little powdered mace. Strew fine bread- crumbs over all, and put two or three little l^ieces of butter here and there. Bake for about half an hour. Probable cost, 2d. or 3d., exclusive of the cold cod and oyster sauce. Sufficient, a small dishful for two or three persons. Cod, Baked.—Take a piece weighing about three pounds out of the middle of a large cod. Make a stuffing with the sound boiled for twenty minutes, chopped small, and mixed with two ounces of grated bread-crumbs, a tea-spoon- ful of chopped parsley, a pinch of powdered thjTne, a small tea-spoonfiil of salt, half the quantity of pepper, a little grated nutmeg, and *■ the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs. Bind all together -with a little of the white of the egg. Put this forcemeat inside the fish, and sew it up. Place the fish in a baking-dish, and pour over it enough thin flour and water to fill the dish three parts. Put in a dozen oysters, also a liUlo scraped horse-radish, and a little salt and pepper. Laj"- three or four lumps of butt«r on the fish, put it in the oven, and baste it fre- quently. ^Vhen it is sufficiently cooked, lay the cod on a hot dish, and garnish it with the oysters. Put the gravy into a saucepan,'add to it a tea-spoonful of anchovy sauce, and another of vinegar; boil it, pour it over the fish, and serve. Time to bake, about one hour. Pro- bable cost of cod, when plentiful, 8d. per pound. Sufficient for five or six persons.( 145 ) COD Cod, Baked (another way).—Prepare the fish as iu the last recipe; brush it over with beaten egg, strew some finely-gi-ated bread- crumbs on it, and put it in a dish with three or I'oui- hmips of butter on it. Baste it frequently, and turn it over that it may be equally cooked thi-oughout. Some persons place the fish on a drainer over a deep dish, in which is placed a carrot, a turnip, an onion, a cupful of water, and the juice of a lemon. The fish is then basted frequently with butter, but it must not touch either the vegetables or the water. Serve either with melted butter, oyster sauce, shiimp sauce, or sauce supreme. Time to bake, about one hour. Probable cost of cod, 8d. per pound when in full season. Sufficient for five or six persons. Cod, Boiled.—In cold weather cod is better for being kept a day, as, if cooked quite fresh, it may prove watery. A large cod-fish should not bo cooked whole, the head and shoulders make a good dish by themselves, though the middle contains more solid meat. "Wash and cleanse the inside of the fish with great nicety, and especially the back-bone ; put it into plenty of cold water, in which a handful of salt has been thrown, bring it to a boil, skim it carefully, let it boil gently, and, when it is nearly cooked, draw it to the side of the fire, and let it remain until done. Put it on the fish-plate over the boiling water, and let it drain for a minute or two, and dish it on a hot napkin, with the rce and liver, which should bo boiled separately, a little scraped horse-radish, or fried oysters, as garnish. Oyster or anchovy sauce, or plain melted butter, may be served with it. Time to boil, twenty minutes for a moderate-sized piece, longer for a large one. When the flesh leaves the bono easily the fish is cooked enough. Probable cost, 8d. per pound. Suflicient, four pounds for six persons. Cod, Cold.—The remains of cod may be used in various ways. One thing, however, should be attended to, and that is to remove the flesh from the skin and bones before it is quite cold. When this is done the cod may be simply arranged in neat flakes on a plate, peppered, a little vinegar poured over it, and the fish garnished with parsley; and served thus, it will not be a despicable addition to the breakfast-table, though further trouble ■wiU be amply repaid. If any cold sauce is left, it may be poured over the fish, bread-crumbs or mashed potatoes spread on it, a piece of butter dotted here and there, and the whole browned in a good oven, or before the fire {see Fish Pudding). It may be served with macaroni (see Cod and Macaroni). It may be made into cakes, and served as cutlets {see Cod-fish Cakes). It may be moulded {see Fish Mould). It maybe stewed, and served with maitre d'hotel sauce, Italian sauce, or supreme sauce. It may be curried, cooked with grated Parmesan, or with becha- mel, or brown sauce, or served au gratin, a la Provcn9ale, or as a mayonnaise. The pieces may be put into a stewpan, taking care not to omit the sound, the tongue, or the eatable parts about the head. Any sauce that may be left may then be poured over it, a lump of butter added, and a dozen osyters with their liquor, or mussels, or cockles, or a few shrimps. The preparation may then be heated gently, put into a dish, bread-crumbs strewed over, and broAvned. In numerous ways cold cod, cold fish of any kind, may be, ydth. a little trouble and attention, presented again at table, and will form a palatable and pleasing dish. Cod, Crimped.—Make some deep cuts as far as the bones on both sides of a perfectly fresh cod, making the cuts at two inches dis- tance, and cut one or two gashes on the checks; then lay the fish in cold water, with a table- spoonful of vinegar in it, for an hour or two. It may afterwards be boiled or fried. If it is to be boiled, it should be plunged at once into boiling water, and then simmered gently. Ciimping renders the flesh firmer, and makes it better both to cook and to serve. Cod, Croquettes of.—Take the remains of cold cod, remove the skin and bones, and mince one pound verj' finely with one dozen oysters, or two dozen cockles, a little pepper and salt, and four ounces of finely-grated bread-crumbs ; work the mixture weU together with a little cream, and make it up into balls about the size of an egg; dip these in beaten egg and bread-crumbs, fry them in a little hot lard till lightly browned, and serve them piled high in a dish, and garnished with parsley. Time to fry, ten minutes. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of the cold cod and oysters. Allow two croquettes for each person. Cod, Curried.—Put a piece of butter about the size of a large egg into a saucepan, let it melt, then fry in it three pounds of cod cut into pieces about two inches square, two large onions, and one apple cut into thin slices, a tea- spoonful of thyme, and a bay-leaf. Let them remain until the onions are nicely browned, then add a breakfast-cupful of good stock, a tea- spoonful of curry powder, a tea-spoonful of curry paste, and a tea-spoonful of ground rice mixed smoothly with a little of the stock. Simmer gently for a quarter of an hour, add a small cupful of cream, two pinches of salt, and one of pepper. Put the cod on a hot dish, and the gT&vy over it, and serve with a wall of rice round the dish. Time, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost of cod, 8d. per pound. Sufficient for five or six persons. Cod, Curried (another way).—Take the remains of cold cod, remove the skin and bones, break it into flakes, and fry it a golden brown in some hot dripping or lard. Drain it, and fry some sliced onions in the same fat, put thom Avith the fish, and stir into the fat some rice flour. Mix it quite smoothly, and add by degrees sufficient stock to make the sauce of the consistency of cream; add a tea-spoonful of curry powder, half a tea-spoonful of salt, and two or three grains of cayenne. Put the cod and onions with the currj-, and let it simmer for a few minutes. Place the fish on a hot dish ; add half a cupful of cream to the gra-sy, let it nearly boil, then pour it over the fish, and serv-e with a wall of rice or not. Time, half an hour. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of the cold fish and the cream. Sufficient, one pound of cold fish with sauce, for three persons.COD ( H6 ) COD Cod-fish Cakes.—Tako tho remains of cold cod, remove tlic skin and bones, and weigh the meat. To every pound of cod allow an equal weight of well-mashed potatoes, a tea- apoonfiil of salt, half a tea-spoonful of poiipor a few drops of anchovy, half a tea-spoonful of chopped onion, one egg, and sufHcient milk to bind the mixture together. If the dish is suited the salt must bo omitted. Make the ijuste ui) mto small cakes about an inch thick, fry them in hot butter or lard till they are well browned on both sides, and serve them as hot as possible. Time to fry, ten minutes. Probable cost, (id., exclusive of tho cold fish. Allow two or thr( cakes for each person. COD FOE TABLE. Cod for Table.—A small cod is fre- quently boiled whole; but in a large fish, the head and shoulders are the most edible portions. It should be dished carefully, so as not to break it, upon a very hot napkin, and garnished with the liver and roe. Tufts of horse-radish, slightly grated, are generally placed round the dish. Oyster sauce and melted butter should be served with it. Anchovy sauce may be used if oysters are not to be had. Cod, Fried.—The tail end of the cod is best cooked in this manner, as it is not much es- teemed when boiled. Steaks may be cut from the middle and served in this way also. Cut the fish into slices rather more than an inch thick, wash them well and dry them thoroughly in a clean cloth. Eoll them in flour, and sprinkle a little salt and grated nutmeg over them. Plimge them into boiling lard, and fry them till they are lightly browned on both sides, and the flesh parts easily from the bone. Put them on a piece of clean blotting paper to clear them from fat; serve them on a hot napkin, and send them to table garnished with parsley and ac- companied with melted butter or anchovy sauce. Time, about a quarter of an hour. Pro- bable cost of cod, 8d. per pound, when plentiful. Sufficient, three pounds for four or five persons. Cod, Pried (Cold Meat Cookery).— Take tho remains of cold cod. Break it into pieces about two inches long and one broad, and dip each into a light batter. Fry them in hot lard or dripping. Put them on blotting paper to clear them from tho fat, pUo them on a dish, and garnish with fried parsley. Time, three or four minutes to fry. Cod, Head and Shoulders of .—Wash the lish thoroughly, rulj a little salt on tho inside of it, and bind tape round tho cheeks to prevent them breaking. If the fish is ciimped, it cod's HEA.D AND SH0UXDEE8. may be plunged into hot water, if not, cold must be used, but it must be poured very gently over tho cod so as not to break tho skin. A table-spoonful of salt should be allowed for every three quarts of water. As soon as the water boils, draw the kettle on one side, remove the scum carefully, and let the fish simmer gently till it is ready. Drain it well, and serve on a hot napkui with the roe and Uver, which should be cooked separately, and a little horse- radish and sliced lemon for garnish. When the flesh parts easily from the bone the fish is ready. Send oyster or anchovy sauce and melted butter to table with it. The time to boU will depend on the size, quality, and age of the fish; a small, young head and shoulders will not require more than twenty minutes; and a large, old, solid one may take forty. Probable cost, 8d. or lOd. per pound. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Cod Head, Browned.—A cod's head in London is usually sold and sensed with the shoulders, but in some places it is cut off, and tho rest of the fish retailed by the pound. As the head contains one or two of the tit- bits, namely, the tongue, the nape of the neck, and the gelatinous parts about the cheeks, it makes a very good dish. Take two or three heads, remove the eyes, wash the heads, drain them, sprinkle a little salt over them, and let them lie an hour or two; put them into boiling water, and boU them from ten to twenty minutes, according to the size. Take them out, drain them, remove the sldn, and dredge a little flour equally over them. Place them before a clear fire, and baste them weU with good dripping or butter. When they are lightly browned they are ready. Garnish vnth. parsley and sliced lemon. For sauce, thicken a breakfast-cupful of the liquid in which the heads were boiled, with a lump of butter rolled in flour. Boil this, stirring it aU the time, till it is quite smooth: add a table-spoonful of Icmon-juicc, and send the sauce to table in a tureen. Probable -cost of cod's head, 2d. each. Sufficient, two or throe for a dish. Cod Mould.—Take the remains of cold cod or any cold fish, weigh it, .and with one pound of fish mix three table-spoonfuls ofCOD COD ( 147 ) bread-crumbs, a table - spoonful of anchovy sauce, and a little salt and cayenne. If any sauce remains it may be used instead of the anchovy. Pound all weU in a mortar, with a little butter and the yolk of an egg. Press the mixture into a weU-buttered mould; cover it ■with a plate, and steam it for three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, 4d., exclusive of the cold tish. Sufficient for three persons. Cod Pie, Fresh—Take a deep pie-dish, and till it three-parts with pieces of fresh cod about two inches square. Season it with salt, cayenne, and grated nutmeg, lay two dozen oysters on the top, and put two or three lumps of butter over it. Cover it with a good crust, and bake it in a moderate oven. Time to bake, about forty minutes. Probable cost of cod, 8d. per pound, when plentiful. A pie made with three pounds of cod, and two dozen of oysters, will be sufficient for six persons. Cod Pie, Salt.—Soak the cod for twelve hours, and simmer it for a quarter of anhour. Cut it into pieces about two inches square. Take a deep pie-dish; place a layer of sliced potatoes half boiled at the bottom of the dish, then a layer of fish, then one of partly-boiled onions shced. Put a little pepper and pounded mace on each layer, and a lump of butter, but, of course, no salt. Make some good melted butter, and mix with it a little made mustard, a table- spoonful of ketchup, and a tea-spoonful of the essence of anchovies. Pour this over the pie, cover it with a good crust, and bake it in a brisk oven. Mashed potatoes may be spread over the top of the pie, instead of pastry, if preferred. Time to bake, about three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost of salt fish, 6d. per pound. Sufficient, a moderate-sized pie for three or four persons. Cod Hoe.—Parboil the roe, in salt and water, and vinegar. Cut it into thin slices, and dip each slice into frying batter. Fry in hot butter or oil until lightly browned. Drain, and serve them on a hot napkin, with a garnish of sliced lemons and parsley. Time to boil the roe, eight minutes; to fry, eight minutes. Allow three or four slices for each person. Cod, Salt (a la Pran9aise). —Choose cod which has not been very long salted. Soak it and simmer for a quarter of an hour. When sufficiently cooked, drain the fish, and remove the skin and bone ; break the flesh into flakes, put them in a ste-svpan, and stir them quickly over the fire for five or six minutes, adding olive- oil, a little at a time, until a smooth paste is formed. Take it from the fire, add a little thick cream, and cayenne, and if the flavour is liked, some poimded garlic. Place the mixture on a dish, and serve it with toasted sippets. Time to heat the fish with the oil while stirring it, five or six minutes. Probable cost of salt fish, 6d. per pound. Sufficient, one pound for three or four persons. Cod, Salt, Fried.—Soak and simmer the cod as in the preceding recipe; drain it, and divide it into large flakes. Fry two large onions cut into thin slices in a little butter, and, when lightly browned, drain them. Thicken the butter with a Little flour, and when very smooth add gradually a little new milk or cream imtil the sauce is as thick as a custard. Let the onions heat once more in the sauce, and season them with a little cayenne. Fry the flakes of fish until lightly browned. Place them on a hot dish, and pour the sauce over them. Time to simmer the salt cod, fifteen to twenty minutes. Probable cost, 6d. per j)ound. One pound of cod with sauce wUl sers-e for three or four persons. Cod, Salt, with Parsnips (a dish for Ash Wednesday).—Salt cod is usually accom- panied by parsnips, probably because that wholesome root is at its best and sweetest during the course of Lent, and it is verj' generally served with them and egg sauce on Ash Wed- nesday. Wash the fish thoroughly, and lay it in cold water to draw out the salt. It must lie for at least twelve hours, and longer if it is very salt, and the water ought to be changed every four or five hours. When thoroughly soaked, put it in a saucepan with plenty of cold water, and let it heat very gradually. It must not be allowed to boil, or it will harden. When nearly boiling, draw it to the side of the fire, and let it simmer gently for about twenty minutes. Drain it, and serve it imbroken on a hot napkin, accompanied by mashed parsnips and egg sauce {see Egg Sauce). Time to soak, from twelve to forty-eight hours, according to the dryness and saltness of the fish. Probable cost, 6d. per pound. Cod Sound as Chicken.—Soak and wash three large sounds {see Cod Sound, Boiled), and boil them in milk and water for half an hour. Scrape off the dark skin, and let them cool. Make a forcemeat with a dozen chopped oysters, three ounces of finely-grated bread- cnmibs, half a tea-spoonful of salt, and the same of white pepper, a blade of mace pounded, two chopped anchovies, and three ounces of butter. Work all well together with the yolks of two eggs, spread the forcemeat thinly over the sounds, and truss each one as nearly as possible in the form of a chicken. Dredge a little flour over them, and cook them in a Dutch oven, basting them well with butter or lard. Serve w^ith oyster sauce poured over them. To roast, twenty minutes. Probable cost, 6d. per pound. Sufficient for three or four persons. Cod Sound, Boiled.—Cod sounds are much liked by many persons, and may always be procured salted. They are con- venient when kept in store in country houses, though, on account of the necessarj' soaking, they cannot be served in a hurrj-. Put them into plenty of cold water all night, then scrape and rub off the dark skin with a cloth, wash them thoroughly, and put them in a stewpan with equal parts of milk and water, and boil them verj' gently until tender. Be careful to remove the scum as it rises. Serve them on a hot napkin, with egg sauce. Time to boil, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, 6d. per pound. One pound will be enough for four persons. Cod Sound, Broiled. — Prepare the sounds as in the preceding recipe. ScrapeCOD ( 148 ) COD them clean, and sinimor for half an hour; rub them \vith butter, and drodgo with flour, season with salt and white puppor, and put them on the gridiron over a clear tiro to broil. Make Imli' a pint of good molted butter, and mix with it a tea-spoonful of mustard, a des- sert-spoonful of soy, and a di-achm of cayenne pepper. Heat it, and pour it over the broiled sounds. Time, about forty minutes. Probable oost, Gd. per pound. Sufficient, a quarter of a pound for each person. Cod Sound, Fricasseed. — Soak, scrape, and boil as many cod sounds as may be required. Drain them, and put them into a stewpan with sufficient white stock to cover them; season the sauce with salt, popper, and powdered mace, thicken it with a lump of butter rolled in flour, and, just before serving it, squeeze in the juice of a lemon. Serve with toasted sippets. Time to boil, half an hour. Sufficient, a quarter of a pound for each person. Probable cost, 6d. per pound. Cod Sound Pie.—Take equal weights of "boiled cod sounds, hard-boiled eggs, and boiled cod. Place these ingredients in layers in a deep pie-dish, season them with pepper, salt, and powdered mace, and pour some good oyster sauce over all. Cover vsdth a good crust, and bake the pie in a moderate oven. It maybe used either.hot or cold. Probable cost of sounds, 6d. per pound. Time, three- quarters of an hour for a moderate-sized pie. Cod, Stewed.—The tail of a cod is some- times boiled like the rest of the fish, but it rarely proves a satisfactory dish, and is much better stewed or fried. Cut three pounds of cod into slices about an inch and a half in thick- ness, and fry these lightly in butter or good dripping. Drain them from the fat, and put the slices into a stewpan with a pint of good stock, as much pounded mace as would lie on a fourpenny piece, and a pinch of cayenne; add three ounces of butter rubbed smoothly with a table-spoonful of flour, a dessert-spoonful of anchovy essence, a glass of sherry, and the juice of half a small lemon. Simmer for eight minutes, then add a dozen and a half of oysters chopped small, with their liquor. Simmer two minutes more. Place the slices of cod on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve immediately. Time, about twenty minutes. Probable cost of cod, when in full season, 8d. per poxmd. Sufficient for six persons. Cod and Macaroni.—Take the remains of cold cod, remove the skin and bones, and break it into small pieces. Take its weight in macaroni, and boil it until tender; drain, and cut it into short lengths of an equal size. Make a little good melted butter, allowing a pint for a poimd of cod and a pound of macaroni; season it with salt, cayenne, and the juice of a lemon: let it boil, draw it from the fire, and add the well-beatcn yolk of an egg. Put the fish and macaroni with the sauce, and when they are quite hot, put the whole into a hot dish. The sauce must not boil after the egg is put in. Cover the mixtm-e with grated bread-crumbs, and brown the top with a sala- mander or in a brisk oven. Time, one hour. Cod and Parmesan Cheese. —Take the remaiua of cold cod, remove the skin and bones, and break tlio ilesli into convenient-sized pieces, not very smjill. Make a little good white sauce, warm the pieces of cod in it, di^ain them, and dip eacli piece in beaten egg, breiid- crumbs, and Parmesan cheese. Thicken the gravy with a little arrowroot or fijie flour: keep it liot in the saucepan. Frv tho pieces of fish in some hot butter until lightly browned, pour the sauce over them, and servo the whole as hot as possible. Time to fry, eight or ten minutes. Probable cost, 8d., exclusive of the cold fish.^ Sufficient, as much fish as will re- quire a pint of sauce, for four- or five persons. Cod, with Mashed Potatoes.—Take the remains of cold cod and its weight in mashed potatoes, remove the skin and bones, and to every pound of fish allow one tea-spoon- ful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of white pepper, and one or two grains of cayenne; pound all together to a smooth paste, wdth a little butter, oil, or cream. Place the mixture in a well- buttered dish, roughen the top with a fork, and bake it in a moderate oven. Time to bake, twenty minutes. Probable cost for cod, 8d. per pound. Sufficient for three or four persons. Codling Soup. — Take two or three codlings, remove the flesh from the bones, and put them with the heads into three quarts of good veal stock; add a bimch of savoury herbs and a large onion stuck -with three cloves. Simmer the soup gently for two hours, then strain it, return it to the ste\vpan, and thicken it with a lump of butter rolled in flour. Put the slices of fish into the soup, with a glass of sherry, a tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoon- ful of pepper, and two grains of cayenne. Simmer for twenty minutes, then serve at once. A dozen oysters, with their liquor, is an im- provement to the soup. Probable cost, lOd. per quart, exclusive of the wine and oysters. Sufficient for six persons. Codlings, Sauce for.—Cod and codlings should be sent to table with oyster sauce and good melted butter. The melted butter should be of the consistency of light batter, as it has to be flavoured either with essence of anchovy, lemon-juice, Chili vinegar, ormushroom ketchup. A good sauce for boiled cod is made as follows : Simmer very gently together, for half an hour, a cupful of water, a cupful of vinegar, two shallots, and a tea-spoonful of the essence of anchovies. Strain the liquid, and add two table-spoonfuls of good cream, and the well- beaten yolks of two eggs. The sauce must not be allowed to boil up after the eggs are added. Codlings, To Dress.—Codlings may be either baked, boiled, or fried. To bake them : Flour the fish, salt and pepper it, and lay it in a pan with a little cold water, an onion stuck with four or five cloves, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Put a piece of butter on the top, and bake it in a moderate oven. "^Tien sufficiently cooked, take out the fish carefullv, strain the gravy, thicken it with a little flour, and add a tea-spoonful of the essence of ancho\dcs and two table-spoonfuls of Harvey's sauce. Let it boU, pour it round the fish, and giimish with( U9 ) COP COF slices of lemon. To boil: put the fish into boiling water, and let them boU very gently untn the lieah loaves the bono easily, bervo with parsley or anchovy sauce. To fry : Knb the codlings with Horn-, then brush them weU with egg, dip them in bread-crumbs, and try them in plenty of hot lard or drippiiig. When a thick smoke rises from them they wiU be ready. Drain them from the fat, and servo with shi-imp or oyster sauce. Time : to bake, three-quarters of an hour; to boil, a quarter ot an horn-; to fry, ten minutes. Sufficient, one codling for two persons. Probable cost, 8d. or Is. each. CofiTee.—This beverage which is so highly esteemed on the continent, and the appreciation of which is becoming more general every year in our own land, is often made so badly that it loses its delicious aroma and invigorating quali- ties, and produces only nausea and indigestion. There are numberless recipes for making it, and every one considers his plan the best, but surely it is proved that some enlightenment on this subject is necessary, when a cup of really good coffee is a most difficult article to obtain, and the quality of that which is commonly dnmk in this coimtry is very inferior. The first thing to be attended to is to have the material good. The best plan is to buy a large quantity raw, and to keep it for years before using it, roast- ing a Httlo as it is required, as the quality of the berry improves with keeping. This, how- ever, is not convenient in many houses, and therefore in ordinary circumstances it is quite as satisfactory and much less troublesome to buy the berries already roasted of some first- class dealer. Though not always roasted, how- ever, the cofPee should always be ground at home, immediately before it is wanted. "VNTien once the berry is ground, the aroma quickly escapes. The berries should be put into the oven for a short time to warm before they are ground. Besides being particular about the quahty of their cofEee, Englishmen haA^e to learn not to be sparing of the quantity. The continental allowance is a cupful of freshly- ground coffee for three cupfuls of liquid. This may, of course, be considered extravagant and unnecessary, but one thing is certain, if the coffee is not strong the aroma is lost. The finest sugar should always be served Avith coffee, and boiling milk or cream as well as cold. When, for purposes of economy, a cheap coffee is purchased, the flavour may be improved by the addition of a small quantity of chicory, but it should bo bought separately, and mixed at home, and not more than two ounces of chicory powder put with one pound of coffee. The effect of chicory is to impart a slight bitterness to the coffee, and to darken its colour, and it is con.sidered by many persons an improvement; but this is not pure coffee. Coffee and Milk {sec Cafe au Lait). Coffee, Black {see Cafe Noir). Coffee, Breakfast. — Coffee is best when made in a tin cafetiere. Take freshly roasted berries, glfind them at the last moment, and make the powder hot in the oven. Place it upon the perforated bottom of the upper compartment, put the strainer on it, and poui' boiling water in gradually. Coffee thus made will be clear, bright, and full of flavour. When a cafetidro cannot be had, proceed as foUows :— Fit a small muslin bag inside the top of the coffee-pot. Pour a little boiling water through this, and, when the pot is hot, pour it off, and put the coffee into the bag. Pour boiling water gradually over it, and when it is all drained through remove the bag and send it to table. It should be remembered that the water should be poured on a little at a time, or the strength of the powder will not be thoroughly extracted. When it can be done, coffee should be sent to table in the same pot in which it was made, as this will prevent its getting cool; and coffee for breakfast is nothing to speak of if it is not hot. Time, two or three minutes. Probable cost, Mocha coffee, 2s. per pound. Sufficient, allow a heaped table-spoonful of freshly-ground coffee for every breakfast-cupful of boiUng water. Coffee, Burnt (the French "Gloria").— This coffee should be served in small cups, and be made as strong and clear as possible, and sweetened almost to a syrup. At the last moment a little brandy should be poured gently over it on a spoon, fire set to it, and when the spirit is partly consumed, the flame blown out, and the coffee di-unk quite hot. Allow a cupful for each person. Probable cost, 6d. per cup. Coffee Cream.—Make a breakfast-cupful of strong, clear coffee; add haK a pint of boiling cream to it; beat them well together; sweeten with two table-spoonfuls of sugar, and, when cool, add a small pinch of salt, the well-beaten yolks of six eggs, and the whites of two. Stir the mixture over the fire for a few minutes, to thicken it, pour it into glasses, and serve with a little sifted sugar on the top of each glass. Probable cost. Is. 6d. for this quantity. Suffi- cient for six or eight persons. Coffee Custard.—INIix thoroughly a cup- ful of strong, clear coffee, with four times the quantity of boiling milk, three table-spoonfuls of finely-sifted sugar, and a good pinch of salt; mix in very gradually the yolks of five eggs, well beaten. Stir the custard over a moderate fire until it thickens, pour it into cups, and serve cold. Sufficient for six persons. Pro- bable cost, Is. for this quantity. Coffee, Essence of, to prepare.— Pour a breakfast-cupful of boiling milk over a dessert-spoonful of the essence of coffee, and stir the mixture until it is smoothly blended. It is a good plan to keep the essence of coffee in the house when any one is in the habit of leaving early in the morning. With it a comforting, cup of coffee may be made with very little trouble in a short time. Sufficient, three des- sert-spoonfuls for a breakfast-cupful. Probable cost, Is. lOd. per piat bottle. Coffee, French method.—Pour a pint of boiling water upon two and a half ounces of freshly-ground coffee. Put the lid on the coffee-pot, and place it on the hob to simmer gently without boiling. Stir it occasionally, and at the end of two hours, take it off the( 150 ) COL COP fii-e, and lot it stand for a quarter of an hour to clour. Pour tho coffee into the cups, and serve with niiik and sugar. I'robablo cost, 2s. pur pound. Suihciont for one pint of colfoo. Coffee, Ice Cream.—Mix a breakfast- cupful of strong clear cuil'eo with another one of boiling milk, six table-spoonfuls of iinely- aiftod sugar, and tho yolks of six eggs. Stir tho custai-d over a moderate lire xmtil it thickens, then add a pint of thick cream. Stir it again over tho fu-e till tho cream coats the spoon, but do not lot it boil. Poui- it out, when cold put it in a mould, and freeze in tho usual way. Coffee Jelly.—Pour a pint of boiling milk through a muslin bag containing tlu-eo ounces of freshly-ground coffee. Put one ounce and a half of soaked gelatine into a sauce- pan with a pint of cold milk, an inch of stick cinnamon, and two table-spoonfuls of sugar. Let it boil, and stir it until the gelatine is dis- solved. Mix the yolks of two eggs with the coffee, strain the milk and gelatine upon it, pour it into a mould which has been inunersed in cold water, and let it remain in a cool place until stiff. It "svill stiffen in about twenty-four houi-s. Probable cost. Is. 3d. SuflS.cient for rather more than a quart of jelly. Coffee, Soyer's Mode of Making.— M. Soyer, the French cook's, way of making coffee was to warm the freshly-ground coffee, mixed with a soup9on of chicory, over the fire, stirring it imtil it was quite hot. He then poured the boiling water upon it, allowed it to stand for ten minutes, and served it "with milk and sugar. Sufficient, a quarter of a pound of coffee and a quarter of an ounce of chicory for every three quarts of water. Probable cost, 6d. per quart, -with milk and sugar. Coffee, To Grind.—Coffee should not be ground too finely, or it will be difiBicult to make the liquid clear. It ought to be ground immediately before it is used. Nothing so soon loses its flavour as coffee when it is powdered, and especially if it is left uncovered. If chicory is added, two ounces will be enough for one pound of coffee. SmaU coffee mills for domestic use are sold everj-where. Time to grind, a few minutes. Sufficient, a pound of raw berries when roasted and ground wiU produce thirteen ounces of ground coffee. Coffee, To Roast.—To roast coffee properly, a suitable apparatus, which is made for the purpose, should be purchased. There are two or three different kinds, and the price varies, the cheapest being about 8s. Manyper- sons, however, who have a prejudice in favour of roasting their own coffee, and do not possess a " drum," use an iron saucepan with a closely- fitting lid. If this is done, great care will be required, or the coffee will either be burnt, in which case the aroma will be destroyed, or not sufficiently roasted, and then the flavour will not be fully developed. It is a good plan to wash the bci-ries before roasting them, it not only cleanses them, but tests their quality. Those which float on the top of the water are not good. The berries must afterwards be carefuUy dned, both in a cloth and in the tin. lo roast them, put a Uttle piece of perfectly fresh sweet butter about tho siise of a wahiut into tlie pan with three pounds of berries. Place the hd on, iind shake the saucepan aljout continually, until a slight smoke arijies. I'hen 1 di-aw tlio saucepuu back, and stir the berries about with a wooden spoon tUl they are lightly and equally browned, to the colour of cinna- mon. Spread them on a flat dish, and throw a thkk cloth over them. When quite cold put tho berries into dry bottles, and cork them closely. It is a good plan to buy a krge quan- tity of raw berries, and roast two or three pounds as required. The cofteo berry ouglit not to be roasted until it is throe years old, and it im- proves with keeping. The fire should be clear and bright, but not fierce, or half a minute will 1 bum it. Colander.—The colander is a basin with handles, and perforated holes at the bottom and sides. It is used for straining vegetables, (fee, and is brought into daily use in almost every household. Colanders are made of tin and earthenware; the tin ones are the more durable, i but the earthenware are the sweeter of the two, excepting when quite new. Probable j cost, Is. to 4s. I Colcannon.—Boil separately equal weights of yovmg cabbage, savoy, or spinach, and po- tatoes. Chop the greens and mash the potatoes, I and mix them well together with a httle pejjper 1 and salt, and one oimce of butter to one poimd j of the mixed vegetables. Heat the mixture I over the fire for a few minutes, stirring it all the time; then press it into a hot, well-buttered mould. Turn out and serve. Or, press it after mixing into a well-buttered mould, and put it into the oven for half an hour. Turn out and serve. Cold vegetables may be warmed up in this way. Probable cost, 6d. for a pint mould. Sufficient for three or four persons. Cold Pudding.—Butter a plain roimd mould, and ornament it with raisins and sKced candied citron. Put a little orange or apricot marmalade on some ladies' fingers, place them in the mould, and pour over them some nicely- flavoured custard. Let them soak for half an hour, lay a buttered paper upon the pudding, and steam gently for one hour and a half. Turn the pudding out when it is cold, and serve it with a little sherry. Probable cost. Is. 4d. for a medium-sized pudding. Sufficient for four persons. Collared Meat.—To collai- meat is lo I preserve it so that it will keep much longer ; than when fi-esh. It is well seasoned, shced. pickled, and rolled. Meat thus prepared makes a nice breakfast or luncheon dish. It shouldCOL COL be kept in a cool place in a mould with, a weight upon it. Calf's head, pig's head, veal, beef, tongues, and fish can all be prepared in this way, and are generally highly approved. College Puddings.—Shred sLx ounces of beef suet very finely, and mix with it six ounces of well-washed currants, six ounces of sifted sugar, half a pound of finely-grated bread- crumbs, three table-spoonfuls of sugar, a dessert- spoonful of chopped lemon-rind, a quarter of a nutmeg grated, three eggs well beaten, and two table-spoonfuls of brandy. Form the mix- ture into little puddings about the size and shape of a large duck's egg. Eoll them in a little flour, and frj' them, till lightly browned, ia plenty of lard or butter over a clear but not too strong a fire. Drain them from the fat, and serve them, piled high on a hot napkin, with wine sauce. Time to fry, from twenty to thii'ty minutes. Sufficient for eight puddings. Pro- bable cost, lid. each. CoUege Pudding, Baked.—Blanch and povmd four ounces of sweet and half a dozen bitter almonds. Mix them with six table-spoonfuls of sifted sugar, and a quarter of a pound of sweet butter. Beat all well together, then add the yolks of six and the whites of three eggs, and a wine-glassful of brandy. When well beaten, pour the mixtm-e into a pie-dish over a layer, about an inch thick, of apricot or any other jam. Bake in a good oven. If preferred, the dish may be lined with a good puff paste before laying in the jam. Time to bake, one hour and a half. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for four or five persons. College Puddings, Baked (another way).—These puddings, which are generally served fried, as in a foriner recipe, are much nicer baked. Wben this is done, they should have another egg, or a table-spoonful of milk added to make them lighter. Pour the mixture into well-buttered cups, and bake in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes. Before serving, timi the puddings out of the cups, and sift a Uttle pounded sugar over them. Probable cost, Is. Id. Sufficient for eight puddings. Collier's Roast.—The collier's roast is the name given in Scotland to a leg of mutton which has been put into pickle {see Pickle) for a few days before it is roasted. It is then cooked as usual, carrots and turnips being sent to table with it. CoUops, Beef. — Take two i^unds of tender beef steak, and cut it into roimds about three inches wide and three-quarters of an inch thick. _ Dredge a little flour over these, and fry them in hot butter or dripping tiU they are lightly browned on both sides. "Vut them into a stewpan -ssdth a j^int of good gravy, a tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful' of white pepper, a tea-spoonful of capers bruised, a tea-spoonful of walnut ketchup, and two pickled gherkins thinly sliced. Simmer gently for ten or twelve minutes, and send to table as hot as possible. Probable cost, beef. Is. Id. per pound. Sufficient for four persons. Collops, Beef, with Onions.—Prepare the meat as in the last recipe. Dredge the collops with flour, and put them in the frying- pan with six or eight large onions cut into rounds, and four ounces of butter, lard, or di'ip- ping. Pepper them, and when they are browned, cover the pan closely. Before serving, take out the meat, put it on a hot dish, add half a cupful of boiling water, and a table-spoonful of ketchup to the onions. Boil up, and pour the sauce round the meat. Time, twenty to thirty minutes, or until the onions are tender. Pro- bable cost, beef. Is. Id. per pound. Sufficient for four persons. Collops, Minced, Scotch.—Mince beef very small, salt and pepper it, and put it, while raw, into small jars, and pour over it some clarified butter. Wlien wanted for use, put the claiified butter into a fi-ying-jDan, slice some onions into the pan, and frj- them; add a little water, and put in the minced beef. Simmer it gently, and in a few minutes it will be fit to serve. Probable cost of beef. Is. per pound. Sufficient, two pounds make a good dish. CoUops, Savoury, Minced.—Put two ounces of fresh butter into a stewpan, and mix a table-spoonful of flour smoothly with it; keep stirring the paste tiU it is lightly browned, then add a little pepper and salt, a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, and a tea-spoonful of savourj' herbs, also half a pint of boiling stock or water. "When smooth and thick stir in one pound of steak finely minced. Move it about with a fork, to prevent its getting into lumps, and when it is quite hot put the cover on the pan, draw it back, and let the collops simmer very gently for ten minutes ; before serving, add the juice of a small lemon, or a table-spoonful of mush- room ketchup. Probable cost. Is. Id. per pound. Sufficient, two pounds for four persons. Collops, Savoury (to imitate Game).— Prepare collops as in the recipe for Collops, Beef. After they are browned, put them into a saucepan, cover them with good gravy, season rather lightly with salt and pepper, and add a little poimded mace. Thicken the gravy by putting with it a lump of butter rolled in flour, and simmer the collops gently for three-quarters of an hour. Before serA-ing, take out the meat, put it on a hot dish, and pour a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup and a wine-glass of port to the gravy. Let it boil, then pour it over the meat. Send red currant jeUy to table with, the meat. Probable cost, Is. id. per pound. Sufficient, two poimds for four persons. Collops, Scotch. — Cold meat as well fresh meat may be used for coUops. Cut some pieces from the fillet of veal about two inches wide and half an inch thick, and sprinkle over them some salt, white pepper, and pounded mace. Fry them in some hoi butter or lard tiU they are lightly browned, then lay them in a stew- pan, dredge some floui- thickly over them, and add as much good stock as will cover the veal. Put it on the fire, bring it to a boil, skim care- fully, and simmer it gently for three-quai-tcrs of an hour. Take out the veal, lay it on a hot dish, add to the gra-s'y the juice of'a lemon, a table- spoonful of mushroom ketchup, a glass of claret, and tAvo or three grains of cayenne; boil the sauce once more, pour it over the meat, and( 162 ) COIN COL serve. Probable cost, 6d., oxclusivo of the cold incut. Sulliciont, two iiounds for tivo porsons. Collops. Scotch, White.—Prepare the veal as in tho last recipe. Fry it iu bacou-fat if it can bo had, if not, in butter, lard, or good dripping. When lightly browned, put it into a stewpan, cover it with good veal utock, thicken this \vith a lump of butter rolled in Hour, and add a cupful of cream and a glass of sherry. Simmer gently for twenty minutes in tlio gravy. Place tho moat on a hot dish, and pour tlio gravy over it. Time, five minutes to fry tho coUops. Sufficient, two pounds for five persons. Pro- bable cost, lOd., exclusive of the cold meat. Colouring.—i?> 'own.—It is a very usual practice with common cooks to make the brown colom-ing as it is wanted by burning a little sng-ai- in an iron spoon, and stirring it into the soup or sauce. By this means the flavour is almost sure to be spoilt. Much the better plan is to make a little browning, and keep it stored for use. It will keep for years. Proceed as follows:—Crush a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar to powder, put it into a saucepan with a table-spoonful of water, and stir it unceasingly over a gentle fire, with a wooden spoon, until it begins to acquire a little colour. Draw it back and bake it very slowly, still stining it, until it is almost black, without being in the least burnt. It ■will take about half an hour. Pour a quart of water over it, let it boil for a few minutes until tho sugar is quite dissolved, pour it out, and when cold strain it into a bottle, and store it for use. A table-spoonful of this browning will coloirr half a pint of liquid, and there will be no danger of an unpleasant taste being given to the sauce, &c. The addi- tion of a little claret or mushroom ketchup will often impart as much colouring to sauces as is required. AVTien it is wished to thicken the sauce as well as colour it brown thickening should be used. Green.—Pound some young spinach or beet-leaves. Press out the juice and put it in a cup. Place this cup in a saucepan of boiling water and let it simmer gently, to take off the raw taste of the juice. Before using it, mix it with a little finely-sifted sugar. Hed.—Two or three drops of cochineal will Impart a beautiful red or pink colouring. It can be made at home, and will not cost nearly so much as if bought at the shops. White.— Use pounded almonds, arrowroot, or cream. Yellow.—For a clear yellow, dissolve orange or lemon jeUy. For an opaque, pound the yolks of eggs, and mix it with the liquid ; or, add a little saffron ; or, soak the flowers of the crocus, which will not taste. Compotes, Syrup for.—The quantity of sugar used for the syrup in compotes must depend upon the acidity of the fruit. For rhubarb, green gooseberries, early apples, &c., we should recommend ten ounces of loaf sugar to be boiled gently with half a pint of water for ten minutes. One pound of fruit must then be put in and boiled gently until it is sufficiently cooked. Lift the fruit into a deep glass dish, pour the syrup round it, and servo. For apricots, plums, strawberries, and cherries, six ounces of sugar will bo sufficient. Exact directions can scarcely be given, as the degree of ripeness which the fruit has attained, and the state of the weather when it was gathered, must bo considered in deciding wliat quantity of sugar should be used; but we can assui'e those who have not been accuBtomcd to serve fruit in this way that it is most delicious and wholesome. The flavour of the fruit is pre- served, and a compote is always an elegant and agreeable addition to the table. Generally speaking, the larger the amount of sugar used the clearer will be the syrup, and the longer it will keep. It should be broken into lumps, not crushed to powder. Conger Eel —^Xho ' onger is comparatively little used in cookciy, rtiougii its flesh is whole- some and nourishing, and by no inean« mi- palatable. When caught, it is generally wasted, an unreasonable prejudice existing against it. It may be cooked m several ways, and tho recipes which were given for cod may be used for it. The head and tail are the best for soup, and tho middle may be boiled, stewed, cut into slices and baked, fried, or made into pies. Conger Eel, Baked.—Take a piece of conger eel weigliing about two pounds, wash it thoroughly, and stuff it with a good force- meat made with four parts bread-crumbs, and one chopped parsley, a pinch of thjone, a little pepper, salt, and pounded mace, a Httle butter, and the yolk of an egg. Bind the fish securely with string or tape, and put it into a deep dish half filled with water. Dredge flour plentifully over it, place little lumps of butter on the top, and bake it in a good oven. Baste it often. When sufficiently cooked, take it out, thicken the gravy, and make it into any sauce you may like. Stewed tomatoes are very good served with it. Time, one hour. Probable cost, 3d. per pound. Sufficient for four or five persons. Conger Eel, Boiled.—Take a piece about twelve inches long from the thick part of a fine conger, tie it round with string, and put it into a stewpan with sufficient boiling water to cover it, and two tea-spoonfuls of salt, one of pepper, a jreakfast-cupful of vinegar, a bunch of savourj-- herbs, and about two otmces of butter or dripping. Let it boil, then draw it to the side of the fire, and let it simmer gently for half an hour. Drain, and serve on a hot napkin. Send melted butter to table with it. Time, forty minutes. Probable cost, 3d. per poimd. Sufficient for six persons. Conger Eel, Pried.—Cleanse the fish thoroughly. Cut it into thick slices, and brush each slice over with beaten egg, then strew over them finely-grated bread-crumbs. Fry them in plenty of hot lard or dripping till thoy are brightly browned on both sides, and the flesh loaves the bone easily. When sufficiently cooked, lay them on blotting-paper to take off the fat; put them on a hot didi, squeeze the juice of a lemon over them, and serve ^^^th shrimp, oy-ster, tomato, or anchovy - sauce. Time to fry, about twenty minutes. Probable cost, 3d. per pound. Sufficient, two pounds for four or five persons. Conger Eel Pie.—Komove the skin and bone from two pounds of the middle of a conger.COB CON ( 163 ) Cut it into pieces one inch and a half square, Btrdw salt, pepper, and pounded mace rather plentifully over each piece, and put a layer at the bottom of a deep pie-dish. Fill the dish with alternate layers of oysters and pieces of fish. The tinned oysters will answer excellently for this purpose. Pour over it some strong gravy made of the bones of the fish and the liquor of the oysters boiled in good stock, cover with a good crust, and bake in a moderate oven. Time to bake, one hour and a quarter. Probable cost: conger, 3d. to 6d. per pound; oysters, 7d. per tin. Sufficient, a pie made with two pounds of conger and a tin of oysters, for six persons. Conger Eel Pie (another way).—This fish is often plentiful and cheap, particularly in the western counties. In Cornwall, conger eel pie is one of the most approved of fish pies. Take a small conger eel, cut it into pieces of two inches in length. Eoll them in flour, and place them in a pie-dish, seasoning each layer with salt, pepper, allspice, chopped parsley, and thyme. Pour in half a pint of water and a table-spoonful of vinegar, and bake with a common crust in a moderate oven. It is good hot or cold. Time, one hour and a half. Conger Eel, Roasted.—Take a piece from the middle of a large conger eel, about twelve inches in length, clean it without open- ing. Make a forcemeat of bread-crumbs, shred suet, parsley, lemon-thyme, pepper, and salt; bind with an egg and stuff the eel full, securing both ends with a buttered paper. Dredge it with flour, and baste frequently; throw a tumbler of cider into the dripping-pan, or, if the cider is not to be had, a small quantity of vinegar. "When half done, change the end by which it hangs, and continue to baste till quite done. It may be baked in an oven, but is more liable in that case to be dry and over-done. Time, about one hour. Probslble cost, 3d. to 6d. per pound. Conger Eel Soup.—Put a bunch of savoury herbs into a saucepan, with a large carrot sliced, two large onions sliced, and two bay-leaves. Fry them to a light bro-mi, then add four quarts of water. Let it boil, skim it well, season it with one ounce of salt, and half an ounce of pepper, and put into it five pounds of the head and tail part of a conger eel. Simmer gently and continuously for two hours, strain the soup, and put with it a pint of green peas. A few minutes before it is sers'ed, put jn a pint of new milk. Time, three hours. Probable cost conger, 3d. to 6d. per pound. Sufficient for five pints of soup. Conservative Pudding. — Take two ounces each of ratafias and macaroons, and four ounces of sliced sponge-cake, put them into a basin, and potir over them half a pint of boiling cream. Let them soak for half an hour, then beat them well with a fork, adding gradually the yolks of six eggs well beaten, a wine-glassful of brandy, and a table-spoonful of sifted sugar. Butter a plain mould, orna- ment it with dried cherries, or any tasteful device, pour in the mixture, cover it with but- tered writing paper, t'e it in a cloth, and steam it until it is firm in the centre. Turn it out upon a hot dish, and pour round, not on it, a sauce made by boiling a quarter of a pound of sugar and a bay-leaf in a cupful of water for ten minutes. Probable cost, 28., exclusive of the brandy. Sufficient for four persons. Cool Cup, A.—Hub five ounces of loaf sugar upon the rind of a large, fresh lemon. Pour over it a bottle of cider, the juice of the lemon, haJf a nutmeg grated, and a tumblerful of sherrj-. Stir it until the sugar is dissolved, and put on it a sprig of borage, thyme, or mint. It vnU. be better if placed on ice for a little while. Time, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, 3d., exclusive of the cider and sherrj'. Sufficient for a one-quart cup. Cool Cup (another way).—Put a slice of hot toast, and a quarter of a pound of sugar into a large tankard. Pour over these three table- spoonfuls of brandy, six of sherry, and a pint of good ale. Lay a sprig of bahn or borage on the top, and let the liquid stand for a little while. Time to stand, half an hour. Probable cost, 2d., exclusive of the liquids. Sufficient for a quart cup. Cool Cup (another way).—Pare and core three large apples, slice them, and also three large lemons, and lay them in a deep basin in alternate layers, with sugar strewn over each layer. Pour over them a bottle of claret, cover the basin, and let it stand for four hours. Strain the liquid and serve it with a lump of ice in the cup. Probable cost, 8d., exclusive of the claret. Sufficient for a pint cup. Cool Cup (another way).—Pour a pint of claret and a tumblerful of water into a large cup. Mix with them two table-spoonfuls of finely-sifted sugar, two drachms of powdered cinnamon, a quarter of a small nutmeg grated, and the thin rind of half a small lemon. Put a sprig of borage, or a little cucumber-rind with it for two or three minutes before using. Sufficient for a quart cup. Probable cost, 3d., exclusive of the claret. Cool Cup (another way.)—Take three- parts of good lemonade and one of sherry or Madeira, add three or four lumps of ice, and serve. Coratch.—Put into a pint of vinegar two shallots, and a clove of garlic sliced, two ounces of chillies, cut, a wine-glassful of soy, and the same of walnut ketchup ; infuse three weeks in a bottle closely corked, and filter for use. The liquid will be improved by keeping. Time, three weeks to infuse. Sufficient, a tea- spoonful or more will flavour half a pint of sauce. Probable cost. Is. per pint. Corncrakes, To Roast.—Truss these birds in the same way as grouse. Dredge a little flour over, and fasten a slice of fat bacon on the breasts. Put them down to a clear fire, baste them well, and roast them twenty-five or thirty minutes. Five minutes before they are taken down, remove the bacon, so that the breast may brown. Send them to table with a little brown gravy in the dish, and bread sauce in a tureen. Probable cost, uncertain. Four for a dish.( 154 ) COR COR Corn-flour (for Children).—To two tea- spoonfuls of corn-Hour, iiiixod with two tablo- spoonfula of cold water, add half a pint of boil- iiif,'nulk; boil for eight minutes, and swooton slightly. It should be, when warm, about tho thickness of cream. For children of a year old and upwards, it may bo prepared wholly with milk, and thicker. For cluldren's diet it is important that good sweet milk should bo used. Corn-flour Blancmange.—Mix very smoothly four ounces of corn-flour with a little cold nulk, pour over it a quart of boiling milk, return it to tho saucepan, and stir it constantly.' Lot it remain on the fire four minutes after it comes to a boil. Sweeten and flavour it. Pour it into a mould, and when cold tui-n it out. Serve with it a compote of any kind of fruit. Time, twenty minutes. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of the fruit. Corn-flour Cream.—To two ounces of corn-flour add one pint of milk, two ounces of pounded sugar, and a few drops of vanilla. Stir the whole over the fire for ten minutes, and pour it into custard-cups; strew ratafias over the surface, and serve hot. Corn-floxir Custard Pudding.—Mix thi-ee ounces of corn-flour with one quart of sweet milk, one or two eggs well beaten, a little butter, and four table-spoonfuls of sugar. Flavour to taste, and boil for eight minutes. Pour it into a pie-dish, and brown it before the fire. This is an excellent dish. Corn-flour Fruit Pie.—Bake or stew any kind of fruit with sugar. Put it into a pie-dish, and pour over it corn-flour boiled with milk, in the proportion of four ounces of flour to one quart of milk. Brown before the fire. This makes a covering lighter and more whole- some than the ordinary pie-crust. Corn-flour Fruit Pudding.—Prepare a batter as for corn-flour blancmange, boil it until smooth, and let it go cold. Fill a dish with about two pounds of any kind of good ripe fruit; stew these tiU. soft with sugar, and when cold place the corn-flour in the middle of a dish, and pour the fruit over and round it. Peeled and cored apples or pears may be used for the same purpose. Corn-flour Jelly.—Mx in a tumbler a tea-spoonful of corn-flour with a little cold water. Pour upon it sufficient boiling wa.ter to form a clear jelly, stirring it well during the time it is being poured on; then add a glass of sherry. Corn-flour Omelet.—Beat up two eggs, and mix them with one table-spoonful of corn- flour, and a tea-cupful of milk. Add a little sugar, and salt and pepper, if desired. Put the whole into an omelet-pan, previously well heated and covered with melted butter, and move the pan constantly over the fire._ Turn the omelet several times, and double it over. Cook it until it is lightly browned. Corn-flour Pudding.—Boil a pint of milk with a little lomon-rind; pour it iipon three dessert-spoonfuls of corn-flour mixed smoothly with a little cold milk or water, add a well-beaten egg, and swoeton according to taste. Pour the mixtui-e into a weU-butterod pie-dish, and bake it from twenty to thu-ty minutes. Probable cost, 6d. Sulliciunt for thi-oe persons. Corn-flour Pudding, Baked.—Add three and a half ounces of corii-liour to one quart of milk; boil for eiglit minutes, stirring it briskly all the time. AUow it to cool, and then mix thoroughly with it two eggs well beaten, and tliree table-spoonfuls of sugar. Flavour to taste, and bake for lialf an hour in a moderate oven, or 1>rown it l;efore tlie fire. Corn-flour Soufiae Pudding.—Put six ounces of corn-flour into a saucepan, with eiglit ounces of pounded sugar, and mix both together with a quart of milk. Add four ounces of frofili butter, a pinch of salt, and a few drop.s of essence of vanilla. Stir briskly until it boils, and then work in vigorously the beaten yolks of six eggs. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a firm froth, and incorporate them lightly with the batter, which must then be poured into a slightly-buttered pie-dish, and baked in a moderate oven for about half an hour. Sprinkle the top Avith powdered sugar, and send to table quite hot. Corn-flour Sponge Cake. — Beat a quarter of a pound of butter to cream. Add half a pound of white sugar, haK a pound of corn-flour, a dessert-spoonful of baking powder, and four eggs. Bake in a quick oven. Corn-meal Cake.—Mix together a pint of Indian meal, a tea-cupful of sour cream, the same quantity of fresh milk, half a cupful of treacle, one egg, a tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda, half a tea-spoonful of salt, and as much cinnamon, nutmeg, or other spice as may be required to flavour the cake. Butter a tin, pour the mixtuie into it, and bake it in a moderate oven for from one hour to one hour and a half. Probable cost. Is, SufELcient for a good-sized cake. Corn-meal Pudding.—This dish is, like pease pudding, intended to be eaten with hot meat and gravy. It is made by stirring Indian meal into boiling water until it is as thick and smooth as batter. It must be beaten well over a slow fire for a few minutes, and when it bubbles up it is done enough. Time, twenty minutes. Corn Puddings, American.^Putinto a saucepan one pint of milk, tho thin rind of half a lemon, and a table-spoonful of sugar; let it boil, and stir into it by degrees four table-spoonfuls of Indian floiir. Keep on stirring it for ten minutes or more, then turn it out and let it cool. When quite cold, add three well-beaten eggs, put the batter into buttered cups, allow room for rising, and bake in a good oven. Time to bake, half an hour. Sufficient for four or five persons. Probable cost, 8d. ; Corporation Cakes.—Mix two tablc- spooufuls of finely-sifti^d sugar, a quarter of a nutmeg grated, and a ])i{isjl of saltj with half a pound of flour. Add oSo oimce of candied lemon cut- into thin stripSi-and two ounces of( 155 ) cou COR dried currants. When the ingredients are well niiiod, work them into a stiff paste with six ounces of clarified fat, two eggs, and a table- spoonful of brandy. Drop the mixture in small rocky lumps upon a well-buttered tin, and bake in a moderate oven. Time to bake, half an hour. Probable cost, Id. each. Suffi- cient for one dozen cakes. Corstorphine Cream.—This is an old- fashioned cooling drink. It is made by mixing equal qu;;3itities of milk obtained on two suc- ceeding days, letting it stand twelve hours, then adding a Kttle new milk, and beating all well together ^vith sugar. Cottage Bread Pudding.—Take any crusts of bread that may have been left, and be sui-e that they ai-e perfectly clean. Put them into a saucepan -with a pint and a half of milk to one pound of bread. Simmer very gently, and when the bread is quite soft, take it from the fire and beat it well with a fork. Add two table-spoonfuls of sugar, half a nutmeg grated, a couple of oimces of finely-shrcd suet, or a piece of sweet dripping the size of a large egg, three eggs well beaten, and a handful of picked currants. Put the mixture into a well-buttered pie-dish, and bake three-quarters of an hour. Sufficient for six persons. Probable cost, 6d. Cottage Plum Pudding.—Shred very finely three oimces of best beef suet; add three oimces of flour, one tea-spoonful of baking- powder, three oimces of bread-crumbs, two ounces of raisins, two oimces of currants, two table-spoonfuls of sugar, half a nutmeg gi-ated, a tea-spoonful of chopped lemon-rind, and two well-beaten eggs. Tie the mixture in a floured cloth, and boil it for from two hours and a half to three hours. Probable cost, 8d. Suffi- cient for a small family. Cottage Plum Pudding (another way). —Mix thoroughly one pint of flour, half a pint of sugar, a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, two tea-spoonfuls of cream of tartar, one tea- spoonful of soda, two ounces of currants, and two ounces of stoned raisins. "Work the ingre- dients into a light paste with two well-beaten eggs and half a pint of nulk. Pour the pudding into a well-buttered mould, and bake it in a brisk oven. This pudding may be eaten cold as plain cake. Time to bake, about three- quarters of an hour. Probable cost, 9d. Suffi- cient for four or five persons. Cottage Potato Pudding.—Peel and boil two pounds of potatoes. Mash them, and beat them to a smooth paste, with a breakfast- cupful of milk, two table-spoonfuls of sugar, and two well-beaten eggs. Add a handful of stoned and picked raisins, put the mixture into a well-greased pie-dish, and bake it for nearly an hour. If the milk is left out, and a quarter of a pound of butter substituted, it will make a nice cake. Sufficient for six persons. Probable cost: pudding, 5d. ; cake, 9d. Cottage Pudding.—(To use up crusts of bread).—Pour a kcttloful of boiling water upon some pieces of stale bread, let thorn soak till quite soft, drain oS. tho water, and beat them weU with a fork. Take out any hard lumps that will not soften, and add a large lump of butter or di-ipping, or some finely-shi-ed suet, some moist sugar, a handful of currants, and a little grated nutmeg. Put the nuxturo into a well-buttered pie-dish, and bake in a good oven. A little jam may be oaten with this pudding, which is generally a favourite with children. Time to bake, one hour and a half or two hours. Probable cost, 2d. or 3d., exclusive of the stale bread. Cottage Soup. — Put three pounds of bones, broken into small pieces, into a stewpan, with a heaped table-spoonful of salt, a bunch of savoury herbs, a pennyworth of bruised celery- seed tied in a muslin bag, or two or three of the outer sticks of a head of celery, and four quarts of cold water. When the liquid boils, sldm it, draw it to the side of the fire, and let it simmer very gently but continuously for three or four hours. Strain it, and put the fat into a frying-pan, with two onions sliced, and a carrot and tumip cut into dice. Fry these till lightly browned, put them with the •soup, and boil it up again with a tea-sj^oonf iil of moist sugar, and half a tea-spoonful of pepper. Thicken it with four oimces of either oatmeal or prepared barley, taking care to mix them smoothly with a little cold water before putting them with the rest of the soup. Wash half a pound of rice, put it with the soup, boil it until tender, and serve. - A little powdered mint should be sent to table with the soup, to be used or not, according to taste. Probable cost, 3d. per quart. Sufficient for three quarts. Cottage Soup (another way).—Put a large lump of dripping the size of a turkey's egg into a stewpan, with half a pound of fresh beef cut into small pieces, two large turnips, two large carrots, and two leeks, all finely sliced. Place them over a clear fire, and move them about for eight or ten minutes, until half cooked. Add, a Httle at a time, two cupfuls of cold water and half a pound of rice. Boil for five or six minutes, then add four quarts of hot water, two table-spoonfuls of salt, and a dessert- spoonful of pepper. BoU once more, skim the soup well, then draw it to the side of the fire, and simmer it gently but continuously for thi-ee hours. Serve a little powdered mint with it, to be used or not, according to taste. Sufficient for three quarts. Probable cost, 4d. per quart. Cottage Soup, Baked.—Take one pint of dried peas, wash them well, and leave them aU night in a quart of water. Cut half a pound of fresh meat into slices, and lay them at the bottom of a deep stone jar. Put over them a slice of bacon, two large onions, two large carrots sliced, two or thi-ee sticks of celery, two table-spoonfuls of salt, one dessert-spoonful of pepper, the soaked peas, and last, four quarts of cold spi-ing water. Cover the jar closely, and put it in a hot oven for four hours, and serve ■with toasted sippets. Sufficient for three quai-ts of soup. Probable cost, 3d. per quart. Counsellor's Pudding.—Butter the in- side of a mould thickly; stick the inside all over(156) COW coir as regularly as possible with dried cherries or raisins halved and stoned; at the Lottom, place in order u few macaroons and ratafias. Then lino the sides with slices of sponge-cake, and lill the remaining space three-quarters full with sponge- cake, sponge biscuits, and bits of rich plum cake. If the latter aro not at hand, a few washed currants may be sprinkled amongst the cakes. Mix together, half milk half eggs, as much as will soak the cake and till the mould; flavour with orange-flower water and sugar, or a glass of liquor, as noyoau, &c. When the soaking is complete and the mould quite full, cover the top with buttered paper, tie it down closely with a cloth, and boil it for an hour. When turned out of the mould upon a dish, pour round the pudding a sauce made of rich melted butter, sweetened with sugar, coloured pink with fruit syrup, and flavoured with a glass of the same liquor that was used for the pudding. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Probable cost, 28. 6d. for a moderate-sized mould. Court Bouillon (with wine) .—Take one part of vinegar, one of red wine, and four of water; put them into a saucepan, and for eveny three quarts of liquid allow half an ounce of pepper, one ounce of salt, a bunch of savoury herbs, two bay-leaves, one sliced onion, and one sliced carrot. Simmer for an hour, strain the liquid, and it will be ready for use. Court bouillon is used to boil fresh-water fish, to take off its insipidity. The quantity must depend upon the size of the fish, which ought to be well covered. When it is once made, however, it will keep for a long time if it is boiled up every three days, and diluted every time with one breakfast-cupful of water. If this is not done, it will become too strong and concen- trated. Oil and vinegar is the only sauce that is eaten with fish boiled in court bouillon, and served cold. The wine may be omitted. Pro- bable cost, exclusive of the wine, 6d. Suffi- cient for two quarts and a half. Cow-heel (au naturel).—This dish, which is delicious as well as nourishing when properly cooked, may be served in several different ways. It should first of all be thoroughly scalded and cleansed, and the fat between the claws removed. This is often already done when the heel is bought at a tripe shop. (Ask for one which has been scalded, not boiled, or nearly all the nourishment will be gone from it.) Cut a cow- heel into four parts, and put them into a sauce- pan, cover them with cold water, and simmer them gently for four hours; take them up, remove the bones, thicken the gravy with a piece of butter rolled in flour, and put with it a table- spoonful of scalded and chopped parsley, and the juice of half a lemon. Season with salt and pepper, boil altogether again for a few minutes, and servo hot. If there is more liquid than will be required for sauce, it should be preserved, and will be foiind excellent for sauces and soups. Probable cost of cow-heel, 4d. to 8d. each. Sufficient, one heel for a small family. Cow-heel for Invalids.—Take a fresh cow-heel, cleanse and saild it, and remove the fat from between the claws. Do not have one already boiled at the tripe shop, as was said in the last recipe, or it wiU not be bo nounshmg. Put it into a saucepan with one pint and a half of cold water, and add a salt-spoonful of salt, a salt-spoonful of fresh mustard, a siilt-spoonful of sifted sugar, and a pmch of pepper. Bring it slowly to a boil, skim it well, and shnmer it gently for four hours. Just before serving, thicken the gravy with a tea-spoonful of anowroot mixed smoothly with a little cold water; add a wine-glassful of sheiTy, and serve immediately. Probable cost, 4d to 8d. each. Sufficient for two or three persons. Cow-heel, Pried.—Prepare a cow-heel as before; simmer it gently for three hours, drain it, remove the bones, and cut it into con- venient-sized pieces, about one inch and a lialf long. Mix some bread-crumbs with a little chopped parsley, salt, cayenne, and finely-shred lemon-rind. Dip the pieces in beaten egg, then in the bread-crumbs, and fry them in hot butter or dripping till brightly browned. Put them on a hot dish, and pour over them some good melted butter flavoured with lemon-juice. Proba,ble cost of cow-heel, 4d. to 8d. each. Sufficient, one heel for two or three persons. Cow-heel, Fried with Onions.—Boil a cow-heel as in the last recipe; take it up, re- move the bones, and put the meat away to get cold; then cut it into nice pieces, about a quarter of an inch in thickness and one inch and a half square. Cut about the same number of slices of Spanish onion, fry these and keep them hot. Dip the slices of heel in frying batter, and fry them in plenty of boiling fat till brightly browned. Serve very hot. The onions must be turned about until they are sufficiently cooked. They will require a few minutes more than the meat. Time : three hours to boil the heel; about twenty minutes to fry it and the onions. Probable cost, 4d. to 8d. each. Suffi- cient for two or three persons. Cow-heel Stock for Jelly.—Cow-heels may be substituted for calf's feet in making stock for jelly. It is best to stew the heels the day before you want to make the jelly, so that it may get cold, and be more thoroughly freed from fat and sediment. Buy two heels that have been well cleansed and scalded, but not boiled. Divide them into four, and pour over them three quarts of cold water, bring them slowly to a boil, sMm the liquid carefully, and simmer it gently for seven hours, or until it is reduced to three pints. After this, proceed exactly as -wnth stock made from calf's feet. If there is any doubt about the firmness of the jelly, an ounce of isinglass may be added. Cow-heels are cheaper than calf s feet, and quite as nourishing, though perhaps a trifle stronger in flavour. Probable cost, 4d. to 8d. each. Sufficient, two heels for three pints of stock. Cowslip Wine.—Allow three pounds of loaf sugar, the rind of an orange and a lemon, and the strained juice of a lemon to every gallon of water. Boil the sugar and water together for half an hour. Skim it carefully, then pour it over the rind and juice. Let itCRA ( 157 ) CBA stand until new-milk warm, add four quarts of cowslip pips or flowers, and to every six quarts of liquid put three large tablo-spoonfuls of fresh yeast, spread on toast. On the follow- ing day put the wine into a cask, which must be closely stopped. It will be fit to bottle or drink from the cask in seven weeks. Twenty- four or forty-eight hours to ferment; seven weeks to remain in the cask. Probable cost, cowslips to be gathered in the meadows. Crab Apples, Siberian (to preserve whole).—Eub the crabs with a piece of flannel till they are quite clean, but do not break the akin. Prick each one with a needle to prevent its bursting with the heat of the syrup. Simmer half a dozen cloves and some whole ginger in a breakfast-cupful of water till the flavour is ex- tracted. Strain the liquid, and boil it for ten minutes with one pound of loaf sugar. Skim it carefully, then put with it a pint of crabs. | Let them just boil up, then take oflE till cold, j and repeat this three times. If then they look quite clear they are done enough, if not, boil IJiem once more. Lift the crabs into a jar. Pour the syrup when cold over the fruit, and tie the jar down closely. Time, two or three hours. They are seldom offered for sale. Suffi- cient, one pound of fresh fruit for one pint of preserved fruit Crab Apples, Siberian, Jelly.—The little red Siberian crabs make delicious and beautiful jelly. They should be made in the same way as apple jeUy (see Apple Jelly). Crab, Boiled.—Put some water into a saucepan, and to every quart of water add a table-spoonful of salt. When it boils, put in the crab, previously taking the precaution to tie its claws. Boil briskly for twenty minutes, or longer if the crab is large. Wlien taken out, rub a little sweet-oO. on the shell. The flavour of crabs is considered better when they are put into boiling water, besides which, they are sooner killed when the boiling-point has been reached. Probable cost of crabs, from lOd. to 38. 6d., depending upon the size. Sufficient, a mediimi-sized crab, for three persons. Crab Butter.-Pick the meat from the claws of a large crab. Bruise it well in a mortar, and mix it with a little fresh butter. Put the mixture into a saucepan with a table- spoonful of water, and let it simmer, gently stirring it aU the time. When it is on the point of boiling, take it from the fire and press it through a sieve into a basin, which must stand in cold water until the butter is cold. Time, a few minutes to simmer. Probable cost, crabs from lOd. to 3s. 6d., depending upon the size. Sufficient, the flesh from two large claws, for half a pound of butter. Suitable for a breakfast relish. Crab Butter Sauce.—Take haH a pint of good melted butter, and stir into it while hot a piece of butter about the size of an egg, prepared as in the last recipe. Mix well together, and serve. Time, a few minutes. Probable cost, crabs from lOd. to 3s. 6d. each. Sufficient for a rimall dish of fish. _ Crab, Curried.—Pound a clove of garlic in a mortar, with the white part of half a small cocoa-nut, a table-spoonful of curry-powder, a salt-spoonful of salt, and a piece of butter about the size of a walnut. When these are beaten to a paste, mix them very smoothly over a gentle fire with a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, taking especial care that the saucepan is delicately clean. Add the meat contained in a good-sized crab, and gradually a small cupful of cream. A pound of French beans, cut into thin strips and simmered with the crab, is an im- provement to this dish. Just before serving, squeeze over it the juice of a lemon. Serve as usual with rice round the dish. Lobster may be used instead of crab. Time to simmer, ten minutes. Probable cost, 28. Sufficient for five or six persons. Crab, Hot or Buttered.—Pick the meat from the shell of a fine crab, and mix it witha little salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, a few bread-crumbs, a spoonful or two of salad-oil or good cream, and vinegar. Be careful to leave out the part near the head, which is not fit to be eaten. Fill the shell with the mixtui-e, strew finely-grated bread-crumbs over it, and heat it in the oven or before the fire. Garnish the dish with parsley, and send toasted bread to table with it. Time to prepare, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost of crabs, from lOd. to 3s. 6d. each. Sufficient, a medium-sized crab, for three or four persons. Crab, Minced.—Pick out the meat from a medium-sized crab, as in the last recipe, being careful to leave out the unwholesome part near the head. Chop it, and a small-boned anchovj', together, and put them into a saucepan with a little salt and cayenne, two table-spoonfuls of vinegar, two of sherrj^ a lump of butter about the size of a walnut, and two table-spoonfuls of bread-crumbs. Simmer gently for a few minutes. Then draw the saucepan back, and add very gradually the well-beaten yolks of two eggs. Serve on a hot dish, and garnish with parsley. Probable cost, from Is. to 3s., according to size. Sufficient for three or four persons. Crab, Mock.—Take a pound of Gloucester or Cheshire cheese, and pound it in a mortar with two spoonfuls of vinegar, three of salad- oil, one of mixed mustard, and salt and cayenne to taste. When it is well pounded, mix with it half a pound of potted skrimps. It may be served in a crab-shell, and garnished vsdth parsley. Time, about twenty minutes to prepare. Probable cost. Is. 8d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Crab, Mock (another way).—The imita- tion crab may be prepared as above, and the shrimps omitted. The flavour is not at all unlike that of crab, and is a relishing addition to bread and butter. Time, twenty minutes to prepare. Probable cost, Is. Id. Sufficient for thxe« or four persons. Crab, Potted.—Pick the meat from the shell and claws of a freshly-boiled crab. Pound it in a mortar with salt, cayenne, and pounded mace. Press it into small jars, cover it with butter, and bake it in a moderate oven for half an hour. When cold, pour freshly-clari- fied butter over, it, and set it aside to get cold.( 158 ) CBA CRA Tho renuiins of a crab that has been partly eaten may he used in this way, hut it Hhould he baked on tho day on which it was opened. Probable cost, Gd. for a two-ounce jar. Sufli- cient for two persons. Crab Salad.—Crack the large cLiws of a crab and pick out tho white meat in as largo pieces as possible. Lay the contents of tho carapace in the middle of a large dish ; on that put tho pickings from tho breast, and on tlie top the pieces from tho claws. Surround tho pile with a small quantity of mixed salad, quartered lottuco-hoarts, blanched endive, or watercresses. Pour a little mayonnaise or salad-tb-ossing over the whole, and garnish the dish with the small claws and a little green parsley. The four black tips of the sheUs of the large claws, which children call soldiers, may be placed at the four comers. Be careful that the mixed salad is thoroughly dry. • Time to prepare, three-quarters of an hour. Pro- bable cost, crabs from lOd. to 3s. 6d. Suffi- cient, a medium-sized crab, for four persons. Crab Sauce.—Mix a dessert-spoonful of floirr very smoothly with a little cold water, and poiur upon it a tea-cupful of boiling water and a tea-cupful of new milk, also boiling. Add three ounces of fresh butter, half a tea-spoonful of salt, the same of pepper, and a quarter of a nutmeg, grated. Put all together on the fire, and stir the sauce constantly till it boils. Now add the flesh from the claws and body of a medium-sized crab, torn into small pieces with two forks. Let the sauce get quite hot; but it must not boil again after the crab is added, or the flavour will be lost. Time, half an hour. Probable cost of crabs, from lOd. to 3s. 6d. Sufiicient for a tureen. Crab, Scalloped.—Prepare the crab as for Minced Crab, omitting the wine and eggs. Clean out the large round shell of the crab, fill it with the mixture, and put what is left into scallop-shells. Place them in a moderately hot oven or before a clear fire. When hot through and slightly browned, take them up, put them on a dish covered with a napkin, the crab-shell in the middle and the scallop-shells round it, and garnish with parsley. Time, about half an hour. Probable cost of crab, from lOd. to 3s. 6d. Sufficient, a medium-sized crab, for four persons. Crab Soup.—"Wash half a pound of rice in one or two waters, then put it into a sauce- pan with a quart of milk or white stock, an inch and a half of stick cinnamon, a little salt and pepper, and a piece of butter the size of an egg. Let it simmer gently till quite tender, then mix with it the pounded yellow pith from the bgdy of a freshly-boiled crab, and another quart of stock. Eub all through a sieve, then pour it into a stewpan with the flesh from the claws torn into flakes with two forks. Add a tea-spoonful of the essence of anchovies. Stir it again over the fire until thoroughly heated, but it must not boil after the crab is added. Time, one hour and a half. Probable cost, Is. 6(1. per quart. Sufficient for five or sLx persons, Crab, To Choose.—Choose a crab of the medium size (ntdtlior very large nor very smiill), and heavy; tho light crabs are watery. Tho male crab is the best for the table, and may be distinguished by possessing larger claws. When selecting a crab which Ims boon cooked, it should bo held by its claws and well eliaken from side to side. If it is found to rattle, as if it contained water, the crab is of inferior quaUty. Tho preference should be given to those that have a rough shell and claws. The joints of the claws should be stifl', the shell a bright rod, and the eyes briglit and filTO. Crab, To Dress.—Pick out all the meat from two crabs, clear away the apron and the gills, and mix all well together with a wine- glassful of vinegar, the same of oO, a salt- spoonful of salt, a table-spoonful of mustard, and a tea-spoonful of white pepper. Clean out one of the large shells, put the mixture into it, and place it on a najjkin with the small claws, and a httle parsley for garnish. Time to prepare, threcrquarters of an hour. Probable cost of crabs, lOd. to Ss. 6d. each. Sufficient for five or six persons. Cracknels.—Beat eight eggs with eight table-spoonfuls of rose-water and a grated nut- meg. Mix with them over two quarts of flour with sufficient cold water to make a stiff paste. Mix with the paste two pounds of butter, and make it into cracknels. Put them into a pan of boiling water, and boil them till they swim. Then put them into cold water, and, when they are hardened, dry them, and bake them on tin-plates in a moderate oven. Time, about a quarter of an hour to bake. Probable cost, 5s. for this quantity. CRADLE sprr. Cradle Spit.—These spits are so made that they inclose any delicacy which has to be roasted; and so no necessity arises for the meat to be pierced. They are now almost superseded by the well-known bottle-jack. Cranberries, To Pickle.—Gather the clusters before they are fuUy ripe. Put them into jars and cover them vrith. strong salt and water. "VATien fermentation begins, drain them, and add fresh salt and water. Keep the jars closely covered. They are ready for use m a week or two. Probable cost, fresh fruit, unceriam ; bottled, 8d. or lOd. per bottle. Cranberries, To Preserve.—Pick the cranben-ies (reject the injured berncs), and to everj' pound of fi-uit allow two pounds of sugar. Pour a cupful of water into the presersong-pan,CBA CRA ( 169 ) and place in it alternate layers of cranberries and sugar. Boil gently and skim carefully. The preserve must bo kept in closely-covered jars. Time, twenty minutes after it comes to a boil. Sufficient, one pound of fruit for one pound of jam. Cranberry Gruel (Invalib Cookeuy). —A few cranberries boiled in a little thin gruel, sweetened and flavoured with grated nutmeg, is a pleasant change for an invalid. Time, ten minutes. Sufficient, half a cupful of cranberries ^A-ith their juice for half a pint of gruel. Cranberry Jelly.—Make half a pint of very strong isinglass jelly, using nearly an ounce of isinglass to the half pint of jelly. "When it is clear, add a pint of cranberiy- juice which has been drawn out over the fixe and pressed from the fruit. Sweeten the liquid with half a pound of best loaf sugar. Add a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice and the whites and shells of three eggs. Simmer the preparation gently without stirring it for a few minutes, let it stand to settle, strain it until clear, and poOT it into a mould. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. Sufficient for a quart mould. Cranberry Tart.—Wash the cranberries in several waters. Allow a quarter of apovmd of sugar and two cloves to every pint of cran- berries, and partially cook them before putting them into the tart. Three-parts fill a pie-dish with the fruit, cover it with a good crust, and bake in a moderate oven. Before baking the tart, brush it aU over with cold water, and sprinkle white sugar upon it. Sufficient, a pint of cranberries will make a tart for three persons. Cranberry and Ground Rice Jelly. —Draw out a pint of cranberry-jiiice by jjut- ting the fruit and two or three cloves into a closely-covered jar, placing the jai- in a sauce- pan of cold water on a moderate fire, and simmering gently for about half an hour. Mix the juice with three table-spoonfuls of ground rice and two of sugar, boil it gently imtil it thickens, and pour it into a mould which has been immersed in cold water. When cold, turn it out, and eat it with a little cream. A quarter of an hour to boil with the rice. Sufficient for four persons. Craippet Heads.—Thoroughly wash the heads oi haddocks. Skin them and take out the eyes._ Fill the heads with a forcemeat made by mincing the boiled and skinned roe -svith double its weight in bread-crumbs, a httle finely- chopped parsley, salt, pepper, and nutmeg to ^taste. Bind this forcemeat together with yolk of egg. Fasten the heads securely with strong thread, place them standing at the bottom of a buttered stewpan, pour fish-soup over them, and boil them gently. Before serving them remove the thread. Time to boil, twenty minutes. Sufficient, one for each person. Crayfish in Jelly.—Crayfish are some- thmg like lobsters, but smaller, and the flesh more dehcate; indeed, thev are more useful and dobcious than any other sholl-fish, and if every housekeeper were to inquire for them two or ' three times at the fishmonger's they would soon ! become plentiful. There are several kinds; those are considered the best which are reddish under the claws. To serve them in jelly, take a ■ pint of fish for rather less than a pint of savoury I jelly {see Aspic JeUy). Put a little jelly at ; the bottom of a mould; when it is cold, lay the crayfish upon it, and repeat this until the materials are finished, but care must be taken to let the jelly stiffen each time or all wUl sink to the bottom, and also to put the fish in with the back do-WTiwards, or they will be wrong side up when turned out. Garnish with parsley. This is a pretty dish. Time, thirty-six hours or more. Probable cost, crayfish, 2s. per quart. Sufficient for a quart mould. Crayfish., Potted.—Boil the fish in water with plenty of salt in it. Pick out the meat and pound it well in a mortar with a little grated nutmeg or pounded mace, pepper, salt, and a small quantity of fresh butter. An ounce of butter may be allowed to a pint of crayfish. Put the paste into small jars, cover these with clarified butter, and cover closely. Time, ten minutes to boil the crayfish. Probable cost, 2s. per quart. Crayfish Soup, or Potage Bisque (delicious).—Take fifty crayfish (or one hundred prawns, if crayfish cannot be obtained). Re- move the gut from the centre fin of the tail, or it will make the soup bitter. Shell the fish and keep the tails whole. Pound the shells with four ounces of fresh butter, the crumb of % French roll, and thi-ee anchovies, and put them in a stewpan with two quarts of fish stock, four ounces of washed rice, a dessert-spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of pepper, and an onion stuck with three cloves. Simmer for two hours. Put the pounded meat, but not the tails, into the soup, simmer again, then press the whole through a sieve. Make the soup hot before sei-ving it, but do not let it boil. Five minutes before it is taken from the fire put in the tails whole. Serve with toasted sippets. A tumbler of wine is an improvement to this soup. Pro- bable cost, crayfish, 2s. per quart. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Crayfish, To Dress.—Wash the cray- fish and boil them in water with salt in it for ten minutes. TTiey should be a bright red when done. Drain them. Pile them on a napkin, inTamid fonn, and garnish the dish with parsley. Probable cost, 2s. per qustrt. Sufficient, a quart for a dish. Crayfish, To Keep Alive.—Crayfish may be kept alive for two or three days if they are put into a bucket with a little drop of water, not quite an inch deep, at the bottom. The water must be changed everj- five or six. hours. Crayfish, To Stew.—Take a quart of crayfish, remove the gut from the centre fin of the tail, and pick the meat from the tails. Pound the bodies, with four ounces of butter, and put them into a stewpan with four pints of water, a spoonful of vinegar, half a nutmeg grated, and a little salt and pepper. Simmer gently for half an hour. Strain, and thicken the sauce with a little flour. Add the tails. When they are hot, pour the whole over a slice( 160 ) ORE ORE of toasted bread, and eerve. Probable coat of crayfish, 28. per quart. Sufficient for six or 8e\'on persons. Cream.—In the ordinary use of the word, cream is the name given to the yellow, delicious matter which rises to the surface of milk, and can bo taken from it by skimming. In cookery, it applies to a number of rich dishes in which cream is the principal ingredient, and which are generally named after the flavouring material. Creams may bo served either moulded or in cus- tard-glasses. When they ai-e moulded, they should, if possible, bo frozen, and if this cannot be done, they should bo made stiff with isinglass. It is almost impossible to give minute directions as to the amount of isinglass to bo used; the strength and quality differ so much, but it may be useful to remember that a larger proportion of isinglass will be needed for a largo mould than a small one. Too much sugar and too much water both tend to prevent a mould from turning out in shape. The moulds for creams should always be oiled or immersed in cold water before they are used. In all the recipes where cream is required, and when it is not easily obtained, Swiss milk will be most useful. Though it is not agreeable to drink, it is excellent for cookery, and much less expensive than cream, and it must be remembered that whenever it is used, sugar may be entirely dis- pensed with. In calculating the cost of the various sweet dishes, cream is put down at Is. 6d. per pint. If the Swiss or Aylesbury milk were used it would be much less. In the same way isinglass is reckoned at Is. 2d. per ounce, which is the price of the best. If opaque gelatine be used, which, though not nearly so nice, is considered by many quite satisfactory, that may be obtained at 4d. per ounce. Cream (a la Parisienne).—Dissolve an ounce of isinglass in a pint and a half of milk ; stir it well, add the juice of half a small lemon, two table-spoonfuls of sifted sugar, and half a pound of good jam—apricot is to be preferred —but none must be used which was not pressed through a sieve at the time it was made. The jam should be added gradually, and the cream stirred till it is nearly cold, or the jam will sink to the bottom. It vsdll be richer and better if cream be entirely or partially substituted for milk. Time: an hour to prepare; twelve hours or more to stiffen. Probable cost, Is. lOd. with milk, or 3s. lOd. with cream. Sufficient for a quart mould. Cream (a la Valois).—Cut three or four spongecakes into thin slices. Arrange them on a dish with a little jam spread on each, and pour over them a wine-glassful of sherry. Dis- solve an ounce and a half of isinglass in one pint of boiling milk or cream. Sweeten it, and add a table-spoonful of brandy and the same of lemon-juice. Stir it well, then pour a little into an oiled mould, and lot it set; then place the sponge biscuit on it. Fill the mould with the remainder of the cream, and when it is firm turn it on a glass dish. Time, an hour to pre- pare. Probable cost, 2s. 6d., exclusive of the sherry and brandy. Sufficient for a quart mould. . Cream, Apple Pie.—Make an apple pia m the usual way. When it is sufficiently cookod, take it out of the oven, cut out the pastry from the middle, and, when cold, pour a pmt of good custard in its ijlace. Put some ornaments of puff paste on the cover. Any kind of firm fruit may bo sent to table La the same way. Cream Biscuits (flavoured with lemon). —Boat up the yolks of six eggs with half a pound of finely-sifted sugar. When well worked together, add six whites whipped to a froth, one gill of whipped cream, and the grated pool of a lemon. Bake in a moderate oven for ten to twelve minutes. 'These biscuits may be varied by substituting orange or vanilla for lemon. Probable cost, about Is. 6d. Cream, Burnt.—Boil a pint of milk in a saucepan, with a stick of cinnamon, and a little candied lemon-peel cut into small pieces. Let it remain by the side of the fire to draw out the flavour, then strain it, and pour it over the yolks of thi-ee or four eggs well beaten. Put the mix- ture on the fire, and simmer the custard gently until it thickens. Pour it into a dish; when cold, cover the surface with powdered loaf sugar, and brown vdth a salamander. Time, twenty minutes. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for a pint and a half of cream. Cream, Clotted.—Clotted cream, usually called Devonshire cream, is sold in the London markets in small square tins, and is exceedingly delicious when eaten with fresh fruit. It is made by putting the milk into a large metal pan, and allowing it to stand without moving it for some hours, twenty-four in winter, twelve in summer. The pan is then placed on a stove, or over a very slow fire, and some distance above it, so that it will heat without boiling or even simmering until a solid mass forms on the top. The pan should be then taken to the cool dairy, and the cream lifted off when cold. Time, the slower the better. Probable cost, Is. for a small tin. Cream Cake — Beat three ounces of butter to a cream, and mix with it, very smoothly, half a pound of fine flour, a small tea-spoonful of baking-powder, two table- spoonfuls of sugar, a pinch of salt, the rind of a fresh lemon sliced as thinly as possible, and a cupful of thick cream beaten up Tvith an egg. If the cream is a little turned it will not signify; indeed, it is rather an advantage than otherwise. It should make a light batter. Put it in a well- oiled dish, and bake in a moderate oven for rather more than half] an hour. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Sufficient for a small cake. Cream Crust.—Pastry is much improved if it is mixed with cream instead of water. Less butter will be required ; indeed, for home consumption, it is very good -wathout any at all. It should be baked as soon as made. Cream Fritters.—Pound in a mortar half a dozen macaroons, two ounces of sugar, half a tea-spoonful of salt, and the rind, grated, of half a lemon. Beat up two whites and half a dozen yolks of eggs separately, ■with half a pint of cream, and stir aU weU together.ORE ( 161 ) CRB Then fry the fritters a light hrown, both sides aUke, and serve them quickly, with wrne sauce and fine powdered sugar. Probable cost, Is. 9d. Time, four to five minutes to fry. buffiaent for five or six persons. Cream, ItaUan—Dissolve one ounce of gelatine in a spoonful of milk. Make a custard with half a pint of milk, the yolks of three eggs and a little sugar. Stir in a few drops of vaniila, and a spoonful of brandy for fiavourmg. When cool, add the dissolved gelatine, and half a pint of cream which has been whisked till it thickens. Put it into a well-oiled mould, and set it on ice, or, if preferred, serve in glasses. Double cream, or cream that has stood twenty- four hours, should be used for making creams. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for a large mould. Cream, Lemon.—Rub the thin rind of a lemon on a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, and squeeze over it the juice of two lemons, and add two glasses of sherry. Let it stand for nearly an hour. Strain the syrup, and pour over it one pint and a half of cream which has been boiled and slightly cooled. Pour it rapidly from one jug to another, till it is thoroughly mixed, and a little curdled. Serve in custard- glasses. Probable cost, with cream, 2s. 8d., exclusive of the sherry. Sufficient for ten or twelve glasses. Cream, Lemon (another way). — Put one pint of cream into a scrupulously clean saucepan, with foiir table-spoonfuls of sifted sugar, the thin rind of a lemon, and simmer till pleasantly flavoured. Dis- solve an ounce of isinglass, and add this to the cream when cool, together with the yolks of two eggs weU beaten. Strain the liquid into a jug; put the jug into a saucepan of cold water, place this over a slow fire, and stir it constantly until it thickens; it must not boiL When nearly cold, add the juice of the lemon. Pour the cream backwards and for- wards for a few minutes until the juice is well mixed. Put it into a well-oiled mould, and keep in a cool place until set. Turn it out be- fore serving. Good cream may be made of Swiss milk; if this is used, the sugar must be omitted. Time, half an hour. Probable cost, 28. lOd. with cream, Is. 8d. with Swiss milk. Sufficient for one pint and a half mould. Cream, Lemon (another way).—Peel three lemons, and put the thin rind with a quart of new milk into a saucepan. Add six or eight blanched almonds, half a pound of sugar, and an ounce and a half of gelatine which has been soaked in a little water. Let all boil gently for a few minutes, cool the milk a little, and mix it gradually with the yolks of six eggs. Pour it from one jug to another till nearly cold, then add the juice of the lemon, pour it again backwards and forwards, put it in a well-oiled mould, and let it stand in a cool place until ready to turn out. Probable cost, 28. 3d. Sufficient for a large mould. Cream, Lemon (another way).—Peel three lemons, and be careful to leave the -v^tiite pith untouched. Soak the thin rind in a quart of milk, and leave it until pleasantly flavoured. Then add the yolks of six eggs well beaten, and a pint of water sweetened with a quarter of a pound of sugar. Strain the milk, and simmer it over a gentle fire until it becomes ot the consistency of cream, and pour it into ielly-glasses. Time, ten minutes to simmer the cream. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Sufficient for one dozen and a half glasses. Cream of Rice Soup.—This is made by thickening some good stock with ground nee. The rice should be mixed smoothly with a little cold water, and added to the boiling stock. Cream, Orange.—Soak the thin rind of three oranges in a pint of mUk till the flavour is extracted. Strain the milk, and boil it, then pour it boiling hot upon half an ounce of gelatine which has been soaked in cold water for an hour. Stir it until dissolved, sweeten it agreeably and keep stirring occasionally tiU cool, to prevent a scum forming. Pour the cream into a damp "mould and let it remain till set. Turn out and serve. Cut the soaked nnd into thin strips. Boil these in syrup to which the orange juice has been added, and pour both rind and syrup over the cream when it is turned out. Cream, Orange (another way).—Peel away the white part from the _ rinds of four SeviUe oranges, and put them, with four ounces of loaf sugar and the clear juice, into a basin. Pour on the mixture a pint and a half of boiling water. Let it stand for two hours, then strain, and mix tl e liquid with four eggs well beaten. Put all into a saucepan, and simmer gently, stirring all the time, until the cream thickens; it must not boil. Serve in glasses, and put a strip of candied orange peel at the top of each glass. If preferred, lemons may be sub- stituted for oranges. Time, about ten minutes to simmer. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for ten or twelve glasses. Cream Pancakes.—^Whisk thoroughly the yolks of three and the whites of two eggs. Add a small cupful of thick cream, a little sugar, and sufficient flour to make a good batter. Put with it a piece of butter about the size of an egg. Fry in the usual way. This and all other batters are better made two or three hours before they are used. Time to fry, five or six minutes. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for two or three persons. Cream, Patissiere.—Beat one ounce of fine flour very smoothly and gradually with three well-beaten eggs, and add, a little at a time, a pint of boiling milk, or cream and milk, or cream only. Sweeten it with some lumps of sugar which have been rubbed on fresh lemon- rind, and heat the mixture over the fire, stirring all the time, until it thickens; but it must not boU. This cream is used by the French instead of our cold custard, and is very good made as above, but an ounce and a half of crushed ratafias, or a little brandy, will improve it, and it may then be used for tartlets, cannelons, small vol-au-vents, &c. Sufficient for one pint and a half. Probable cost, 8d., made with milk. Cream Pudding, Rich.—Put the thin rind of a lemon into a pint of cream, bring it slowly to a boil, and pour it over the finely-grated( 162 ) ORE ORE crumb of a French roll. Lot it stand to soak, then bout it well with a fork, and add two table-spoonfuls of sugar, a pinch of salt, one or two drops of ahnond Havouring, a table-spoon- ful of brandy, and the yolks of six eggs well beaten. Bake in a buttered dish, and serve with wine sauce. Time to bake, luilf an hour. Probable cost, 'is. 3d., exclusive of the brandy. Sufficient for four or five persons. Cream, Rice.—Put a quart of new milk or cream into a saucepan with any flavouring that may be preferred, if lenion-rind, stick cinnamon, or lam-el loaves, the milk shoixld bo left stand- ing by the side of the fire a little while to draw the flavour. Mix two table-spoonfuls of ground rice with a Uttle of the milk, and gradually with the whole of it. Add a well-beaten egg and stir the cream over a gentle fire till it thickens. Sweeten to taste, and serve in a glass dish as an accompaniment to fruit tart or stewed fruit. The cream should be stirred imtil cold to prevent a skin forming on the top. Time, twenty minutes. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for a quart of cream. Cream Sauce.—Put a piece of butter the size of an egg into a saucepan with a dessert- spoonful of fine flour, and beat them smoothly together with a wooden spoon. When the butter is melted, add gradually half a pint of cream or new milk, and a little salt, pepper, and pounded mace. Let the sauce simmer over a gentle fire, and stir it constantly. If it becomes too thick, it may be thinned by the addition of a small quantity of milk or cream. The juice of a lemon may be added, if liked. This sauce may be used for turbot, cod, and other fish, vegetables, and white dishes. Time, a quarter of an hoiir. Probable cost, 4d., if made with milk. Sufficient for rather more than half a pint of sauce. Cream, Sherry.—Simmer a pint of cream, with an inch of stick cinnamon and two table-spoonfuls of pounded loaf sugar. Let it get cold, then add gradually three table-spoon- fuls of sherry. Strain, and serve in glasses. Strew a little powdered cinnamon on the top of each glass; stir it weU. Time, a quarter of an hour to simmer the cream. Probable cost, cream, Is. 6d. per pint. Sufficient for half a dozen glasses. Cream, Soda.—Put three pounds of loaf sugar, two ounces and a half of tartaric acid, and two quarts of cold water into a preserving- pan. Let it just boil, then add the whites of three eggs beaten to a firm froth. Let this boil exactly foirr minutes, stirring all the time. Strain, and when it is cold, add a small tea- spoonful of any flavouring essence that may be preferred. Keep the liquid in a bottle closely corked. When an agreeable refreshing summer | beverage is wanted, two table-spoonfuls of this may be put into half a tumblerful of water, and stirred briskly with a third of a tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda. Drink during effervescence. Probable cost, 28. 2d. for this quantity. Suffi- cient, two table-spoonfuls for a tumbler. Cream, Substitute for.—Stir a dessert- spoonful of flour into a pint of new milk; simmer it, to take off the rawness of the flour; stir in tlie yolk of an egg well beaten, and strain the mixture through a fine sieve. Tim(;, a few minutes to simmer. Probable cost, 3d. Sufficient for rather more than a pint. Cream, Substitute for (another and nicer).—Boat the yolks of two eggs, and mix them with half a pint of milk. Strain the mixture into a saucepan, and stir it until it is heated, but do not let it boil. Sweeten slightly. When cold, it is ready to serve. This may be used either for tea or tarts. Time, a few minutes. Probable cost, 3d. Sufficient for nearly three-quarters of a pint. Creamed Tartlets.—Line some tartlet tins with good puff paste, and put rather less jam on them than is usual. Place a little good custard over the jam, and on the top of the custard an icing made by mixing a table-spoon- ful of sifted white sugar with the white of one egg whisked to a sohd froth. Place a little of this over each tartlet and bake in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes. Probable cost, 2d. each. Sufficient, six or eight for a dish. Cream Toasts.—Cut a poimd of French roll in slices as thick as a finger, and lay them in a dish. Pour over them half a pint of cream, and a quarter of a pint of milk, and sprinkle some crushed lump sugar and cinnamon on their surface. When the pieces of bread are soaked in the cream, remove them, dip the slices in some raw eggs, and fry them bro\vn in butter. Time, ten minutes to fry. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Cream, Vanilla.—Mix the well-beaten yolks of four eggs with a pint and a half of thick cream or new milk, add three table-spoon- fuls of sugar, and four or five drops of the essence of vanilla, and last of all, the white of one egg beaten to a firm froth. Put the mix- ture into a jug, place the jug in a saucepan of cold water, and let it simmer gently, stirring the contents of the jng all the time, until the cream thickens. It must on no account boil, or it will be f uU of lumps. Pour it into custard- glasses, and strew a little finely-sifted sugar on the top of each glass. Sufficient for nearly a quart. Probable cost, 9d. for this quantity, if made with milk. Cream, VaniUa (another way).—Simmer half a stick of vaniUa in a pint of nulk for twenty minutes, or until the flavour is thoroughly extracted, take out the vanilla, and pour the boiling milk upon one oimce of isinglass, and stir it until the isinglass is quite dissolved. Mix it with the yolks of six eggs, put it in a saucepan, and stir it constantly over the fire till I it thickens, but it must not boil. Strain it in a large basin, and add to it half a pint of well- whipped cream, and a small glass of brandy. Pour it on a well-oiled mould, and set it on ice. To turn it out, dip the mould for a moment into warm water. If it cannot he set on ice, a little more isinglass may be added. Time, three-quarters of an hour to prepare. Probable cost, 28. 7d., exclusive of the bi-Tndy. Sufficient for one quart mould.CBE \ 163 ) Cream, Velvet.—Cut three or four sponge biacuits into thin slices, and spread on each a little apricot or greengage jam. Pour over them a glass of sherry, and the jmce of a lemon, and lot them stand to soak. Dissolve half an ounce of isinglass in a cupful of water, put it with a pint of cream, and two table- spoonfuls of sugar into a saucepan, and let it simmer gently for ten minutes, strain it into a jug, and, when nearly cold, pour it from a good height upon the fruit and spongecake. When stiff, it is ready to serve. Probable cost, 2s. 8d. Sufficient for a good-sized dish. Cream, Velvet (another way).—Prepare the jam and the spongecakes as in the last re- cipe. Simmer a pint and a half of new milk with the thin rind of a lemon, half an inch of stick cinnamon, and three table-spoonfuls of sugar, untn the flavour is thoroughly extracted. Strain the milk, and let it cool, then mix it with four eggs well beaten. Beat two dessert- spoonfuls of arrowroot or corn-flour into a smooth paste with a little cold milk. Mix the eggs and milk with them, and put all in a sauce- pan. Let the mixture simmer gently until it thickens, but it must not boil. Pour it over the fruit and spongecake, and let the dish stand in a cool place until wanted. Orange wine may be substituted for sherry. Probable cost, Is. 3d., exclusive of the wine. Sufficient for a large dish. Cream, Whipped.—The white of one egg should be allowed for every pint of good, thick cream. If this cannot be procured, more eggs must be used. A good-looking dish may be made by boiling a quart of milk down to a pint, and mixing with it the whites of three eggs. Sweeten and flavour the cream before using it. For a plain whipped cream, this is done by rubbing the rind of a lemon upon three oimces of loaf sugar, and pounding it in a mortar, then mixing it with a glass of sherry or half a glass of brandy, the white of an egg beaten to a solid froth, and afterwards with the cream. Whip it to a froth with a scrupulously clean osier whisk. As it rises, take it ofiE by table-spoonfuls, and put it on a sieve to drain. It is a good plan to whip the cream the day before it is wanted, as it is so much firmer. It should he made in a cool place, and kept in the same. It may be served in a variety of ways, either in glasses, or in a glass dish, when it should be prettily garnished, or surrounded by spongecake, macaroons, or ratafias. A sponge- cake may be made in the shape of a hollow cylinder, and filled with as much whipped cream as it will hold. Its appearance is im- proved by colouring part of it before whipping it (see Colouring). Many persons dissolve a tea-spoonful of powdered gum arabic in a little orange-flower water, and add this to the cream. It keeps the froth firmer. Double cream may be simply whipped by whisking it with a wire whisk until it thickens. If beaten too long it will turn. Cream, Whipped, with Chocolate. —Make two ounces of best chocolate into a paste with a little boiling water. Mix it gradually and smoothly with one pint of cream sweetened, two tea-spoonfuls of dissolved gum arabic, if this is used {see the previous recipe); boil and cool, then add the whites of three eggs beaten to a froth. Half fill the glasses, and whip the remainder into froth. FiU them up, and keep in a cool place till wanted. Double cream is the best for this purpose. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for eight or ten glasses. Cream, Whipped, with Coffee.— Mix a table-spoontul of a strong infusion of coffee in a pint of cream, sweeten it rather liberally, and whip it as in the last recipe. It will be of a light brown colour. If this is objected to, it may be obtained free from colour by roasting freshly two ounces of coffee- berries. When they are lightly browned, throw them at once into the cream, and let it stand for an hour before using. Strain, and whip as before. Serve in glasses. Double cream is the best for this purpose. Sufficient for eight or ten glasses. Probable cost, 2s. Cream, Whipped, with Liqueur.— Proceed exactly as before, flavouring the cream before whipping it with any liqueur that may be wished. Double cream is the best for this purpose. Probable cost. Is. 8d., exclusive of the liqueur. Sufficient for eight or ten glasses. Cream, Whipped, with Vanilla.— BoU half a pod of vanilla in a cupful of new milk for twenty minutes. Strain, and add it to a pint of thick cream. Sweeten with two table- spoonfuls of sugar, and mix in the whites of three eggs beaten to a firm froth. Three or four drops of vanilla essence may be put with the cream instead of boiling the pod. Choose a cool place for work of this kind. Probable cost, about Is. lOd. Sufficient to fill eight or ten glasses. Cream of Tartar Cake. —Rub one ounce of butter into three pints of flour. Add three tea-spoonfuls of cream of tartar, and a pinch of salt. Dissolve a piece of saleratus the size of a small nut in a pint of milk. If this cannot conveniently be used a tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda dissolved in the milk will supply its place. Add the milk to the flour roll out the dough, cut it into cakes the size of a cup-plate, and about half an inch thick, and bake on tins in a quick oven. Time to bake, about twenty minutes. Probable cost, lOd. for this quantity. Sufficient for six or eight cakes. Cream of Tartar, To Drink.—Put an ounce of cream of tartar, the rind and juice of two lemons, and a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar into a jug. Pour over them two quarts of boiling water. Drink the beverage when cold. It will prove cooling and wholesome. Time, a few minutes to prepare. Probable cost 3d. per quart. Sufficient for two quarts. ' Creme d'Orge.—Boil gently a cupful of pearl barley m one pint of milk and one pint of water until quite tender. Strain off the liquid (which, if sweetened and flavoured, wUl be a refreshing and wholesome drink for a child or sick person), and mix with the barley a pint of cream, three table-spoonfuls of sugar, a piece of fresh butter the size of an egg, two eggs well beaten, and a quarter of a nutmeg gratedCEO ( 164 ) ORE Hotuin the biU'loy to the saucepan, and let it Bimmor gently for an hour. 8tir it frequently. It may be either served in custai'd-glassos, or put in a buttered dish and baked in a moderate oven. If baked four eggs may bo used. Proba- ble cost, Is. 8d. SuCaciont for five or six persons. CJreme d'Orge, Soup of.—Cut three- quarters of !X pound of veal and half a pound of beef into small pieces. Put them into a sauce- pan with two ounces of pearl barley and two quarts of cold water, bring it to a boil, skim thoroughly, and simmer as gently as possible for three hours. Then rub the whole through a sieve. Add pepper and salt, and any other seasoning that may be fancied. The soup should be of the consistency of thick cream. Probable cost, lOd. per pint. Sufficient for four or five persons. Cress Sauce (for Fish and Poultry).— Wash some cress carefully. Pick it from the stalks, and boil it for about ten minutes. Drain it, mince it very finely, and stir it into a little melted butter. Serve in a tureen. Sufficient, a handful of cress for half a pint of sauce. Cost, 6d. per pint. Cressy Soup.—^Wasb clean, prepare, and slice eight carrots, eight turnips, eight smaU onions stuck with one' or two cloves, half a drachm of celery-seed, bruised and tied in a muslin bag, and a slice of lean ham cut into small pieces. Put these into a stewpan with a piece of butter the size of a large egg, move them constantly, and when they are nicely browned, add, a little at a time, tlu-ee quarts of good stock {see Stock). If it is necessary to use fresh meat, two pounds of the shin of beef boiled gently in four quarts of water for three hours will answer the purpose. Simmer until the vegetables are quite tender. Press them through a coarse sieve with the back of a spoon, return them to the saucepan, season with pepper and salt, and boil twenty minutes longer. The soup should be of the consistency of very thick cream. A little boiled rice may be put into the tureen, and the soup poured on it. Time, two hours, if the stock or gravy be already prepared. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Probable cost. Is. 6d., exclusive of the stock or gravy. Crisp Biscuits.—^A very stiff dough is requirecf for these biscuits. To one pound and a half of flour add the yolks of two smaU eggs, and as much milk as will bring it to the required consistency. Beat and knead the paste till it is quite smooth, and, when rolled out thin, make it into small biscuits with a tin cutter, and bake these in a slow oven about fifteen minutes. Probable cost, about 6d. Crisped Parsley.—Wash some young parsley; pick away the decayed or brown leaves, and shake it in a cloth till it is quite dry. Spread it on a sheet of paper, and put it in a Dutch oven before a clear fire; turn it very often until it is quite crisp. Time, about a quarter of an hour. Sufficient, a little to garnish a dish. Croquant Paste.—Mix two ounces of finely-sitted loaf sugar with a quarter of a pound of fine flour. Add the well-beaten yolks of eggs till it forms a stiff paste. Roll it out about the eighth of an inch in thickness, and, with an ordinary pastry cutter, cut it out into pretty little shitpes. Let these dry a short time, then brush them over with the wliite of 'III egg, sift a little sugar over them, place them on a tin, and bake them for a few nunutes in a moderate oven. Take them from the tin before they are cold, and place them on the tartlets, &c., for which they are intended. Sufficient, two or throe for a small dish of pastry. Probable cost, 4d. for this quantity. Croquettes.—These useful little dishes are made of minced meat, poultry, fish, Sec, highly seasoned, mixed with a little sauce, dipped in egg and bread-crumbs, fried until crisp, and sei-ved with any sauce. They differ from rissoles only in this, that the latter are covered with good puff paste before frying, and croquettes are rolled in egg and bread-crumbs. They should be well drained from the fat before serving, then piled high on a hot napkin, acd the sauce sent to table in a tureen. Though they are often made of fresh meat, they are chiefly useful for cold. It will be evident that nearly everything depends upon the seasoning. Though there are numberless names for them, from the materials of which they are made, or the sauces with which they are served, the general idea in all is the same—a savoury mince, moistened with sauce, if necessary bound together with the yolk of egg, dipped in beaten egg, rolled in bread-crumbs, and fried crisp. Croquettes (au FinanciSre).—Mince very finely the livers of two fowls, a sweetbread, a shallot, six small mushrooms, and two truffles Season rather highly with pepper and salt. Put one ounce of butter into a stewpan, let it melt, then mix with it very smoothly and slowly a table-spoonful of flour. When it is lightly browned, add the mince and an ounce of butter, and simmer for ten minutes, stirring all the time. Drain off the fat, add a glass of light wne to the mixture, and simmer it gently for a few minutes longer. When it is cold and stiff, mould it into small balls, and fry these in the usual way. Half a dozen oj'sters, finely minced, are sometimes added. Sprinkle a little salt over croquettes before serving them. Time to fry, ten minutes. Probable cost, sweetbread, from Is. to 4s. Sufficient, allow one or two croquettes for each person. Croquettes of Fowl.—Take the remains of a cola fowl, and mince it ver\' finel)'; put it in a saucepan with a little gravy, a little salt, pepper, and pounded mace, and a table-spoonful of cream. Let it boil, stirring it well all the time, and, if necessary, thicken it with a little flour, or a few bread-crumbs. When cold and firm, roll it into balls about the size of a walnut, dip them in egg and bread-crumbs; do this once or twice, and fry them in plenty of hot dripping until they are lightlj^ browned; pile them on a napkin and garnish with crisped parsley {sre Crisped Parsley). Time to try, ten minutes . Probable cost, 4d., exclusive of the cold meat. Allow two or three for each person.CBO ( 166 ) CRU Croquettes of Rice—Put a quarter of a pound of rico, ono pint of milk, three table- spoonfuls of finoly-sif tod sugar, a piece of butter the size of a small nut, and the thin rind of a lemon, into a saucepan. Any other flavoui-ing may be used, if preferred. Sinmier gently until the rice is tender and the milk absorbed. It must be boiled until thick and dry, or it will be difficult to mould into croquettes. Beat it thoroughly for three or four minutes, then turn it out, and when it is cold and stiff, fonn it into small balls dip these in egg, sprinkle a few CROQUETTES OF RICE, bread-crumbs over them, and fry them in clari- fied fat till they are lightly and equally browned. Put them on a piece of clean blotting-paper, to drain the fat from them, and serve them piled high on the dish. If it can be done without breaking them, it is an improvement to introduce a little jam into the middle of each one; or jam may be served with them. Time, about one hour to boil the rice, ten minutes to fry the croquettes. Sufficient, a dozen for a dish. Probable cost, 4d., without the jam. Croquettes, Vol-au-vent de.—Make some extremely light puff paste ; roll it out very evenly, or it will not rise properly. Roll it out about a quarter of an inch thick ; stamp it to the size and shape of the bottom of the dish in which you intend to send it to table; roll the paste again, and stamp another shape, four times as thick as the first; place it on the top of the other, fastening it at the edges with yolk of egg. Make a slight incision nearly through the pastry all round the top about an inch from the edge. Bake it in a brisk oven (this is important) until lightly browned, at once take out the paste inside the centre, remove the soft crumb from the middle, but be careful not to break the edges. Keep it in a warm place, and, when wanted, fiU it with croquettes {see Croquettes, au Financiere). Time to bake, twenty minutes. Probable cost, de- pends upon the size. A vol-au-vent should never be made large. Croustad.es.—These are patties made very much of the same shape as vol-au-vents, bread being used instead of puff paste. They are best made as follows : Cut thick slices from a roll, scoop a hollow in the centre, and fry them in hot fat till they are lightly browned. Drain, and dry them in the oven for a few minutes. They should then be fiUed with very nicely- seasoned mince, moistened with a little stiff white sauce. The crust of the roll may be temoved or not before frying. Time to fiy ten minutes. Probable cost, rolls. Id. each. Sufficient, allow ono croustade for each person. Croustades, or Dresden Patties (another way).—Croustades are very nice cut from a French roll, as above, then dipped in a little milk, and di-ained, brushed over with egg, dipped in bread-crumbs, and fried. They may be filled either with sweets or a savoury mince. Care must be taken not to break them. Time to fry, a few minutes. Croiite-aux-Champignons.—Cut the crust from a stale loaf rather more than an inch in thickness, toast and butter it. Put a piece of butter the size of a large egg into a saucepan; let it melt, then put into it three dozen button mushrooms, first cutting off the ends of the stalks, and paring them neatly. Strew over them a little pepper and salt, and add the juice of half a lemon. Stew them gently for twenty-five minutes, shaking the pan frequently. Grate a quarter of a nutmeg over them, and add a tea-spoonful of flour mixed with a cupful of milk. Let them simmer five minutes longer, pour them over the toast, and serve hot. A little good stock may be used instead of the milk if j)referred. Sufficient for five or six persons. Probable cost, mushrooms, 6d. to 2s. per pint. Croutons.—Cut some slices of the cnimb of bread half an inch in thickness, into any shape, round, oval, or square, that may be preferred, and fry them in hot clarified fat till they are lightly browned. Drain them from the fat and they are ready to serve. They are used for garnish. Time to fry, five minutes. Croutons (a I'Artois). — Fry some croiitons {see the preceding recipe). Pour over them a puree of young peas {see Peas, Puree of), thinned with a little stock, and seasoned with salt and pepper. Serve as hot as possible. Time, five minutes to fry the crodtons. Suffi- cient, a quart of puree for four or five persons. Probable cost of peas, when in full season, 6d. per peck. Crullers.—Beat a quarter of a pound of fresh butter to a cream. Add half a pound of sugar, a pinch of salt, five well-beaten eggs, one table-spoonful of ground cinnamon, two table-spoonfuls of brandy, and a table-spoonful of saleratus. Beat all together thoroughly for some minutes, then add as much fiour as will 'make a soft dough. Cut it in strips about three inches long and one wide, twist these and drop them into a little boiling lard. When they are lightly browned, they are done enough. Drain them, and, serve with a little pounded sugar strewn over them. Time, ten minutes to fry the cruUers. Probable cost, Is. 6d. for this quantity. Crumbs, Fried Bread (vpith which to dredge Hams or Bacon).—Place a crust of bread in a cool oven, when it is crisp and brown, roll it into dust with a rolling-pin, pass it through a coarse sieve, and bottle the powder until wanted. Or, put the crumbs of bread into a frying-pan with & little clarified butter, stir them constantly till they are brightly browned, and drain them before the fire. Tune to fry,( 166 ) CRXT five or BIX minutes ; time to brown the crust, it should be left all night in a cool oven. Crumbs, Substitute for.—Some cooks, when frying finli, Hiibstituto oatmeal for grated bread-crumbs. It costs comparatively nothing, and requires no preparation. Crumpets.—Warm one pint of new milk and one ounce of butter in a saucepan; when the butter molts, take it from the fire, let it cool a little, and mi.x with it a beaten egg, a pinch of salt, and Hour enough to make it into batter; lastly, put with it a quarter of a pint of fresh yeast. Cover it, and let it stand in a warm place for a quarter of an hour. Bake the crumpets slightly on an iron plate made for the purpose, and well greased. If this is not at hand, they may be baked in the frying-pan. When one side appears sufficiently cooked turn them quickly on the other. Crumpets may, however, be bought for a trifling expense, and as they take a good deal of trouble to prepare, it does not seem worth while to make them at home when they can be purchased. They shoiild be toasted and plentifully buttered ; they ■will be soft and wooUy; they are rather like a blanket soaked in butter, and are nearly as indigestible. Time to bake, about ten minutes. Probable cost, 4d. each. Allow two for each person. Crumpets, Scotch.—Cnmipets in Scot- land are made with oatmeal or unbolted flour instead of the ordinary flour. Crumpet and MufOLn Pudding.— Butter a plain round mould, and place in it alternately two muffins and three crumpets. Split open the muffins and put a little red cur- rant jelly in each. Pour over them a light batter, cover the mould closely, and boil or steam for an hour and a half. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for five persons. Crust, Butter, for Boiled Puddings. —Put one pound of flour, a pinch of salt, and half a tea-spoonful of baking-powder into a basin, mix them well, then rub into them six ounces of fresh butter. Work the mixture with a knife or fork into a paste by the addition of half a pint of water. Roll it out once or twice, and it will be ready for use. Butter must be used for pudding-crust when suet is disliked, as lard is not nice for boiled puddings. If a richer crust is preferred, another ounce or two of butter may be added, but for ordinary pud- dings the crust just described is excellent. Time, a quarter of an hour to prepare. Pro- bable cost, 6d. per pound. Sufficient, one pound for a pudding large enough for three or four persons. Crust, Common, for Raised Pies. —Melt a quarter of a pound of butter and a quarter of a pound of lard in half a pint of water. Put two pounds of flour into a basin, and when the butter and lard are melted in the water, pour them into the flour, stirring it all the time. Work the mixture with the hands to a stiff paste, and, in order to keep it soft, put the portion which is not being worked upon a plate over a saucepan of hot water. Probable cost, 5d. per pound. Crust, Dripping, for Kitchen Pies.— liulj six ounces of nicely-clarified beef diipping into a pound of flour. Add a pinch of salt, a small tea-spoonful of baking-powder, and a table-spoonful of sugar. filake the mixture into a stifle smooth paste by stirring cold water into it, and roll it out once only. It is then ready for use. Time to prepare, twenty minutes. Probable cost, 4d. per pound. Crust for Fruit Tarts.-Mix a pinch of salt and two taljle-spoonfuls of sifted sugar with a pound of dry flour. Break six ounces of fresh butter into small pieces, crumble it inUj the flour, and work it into a smooth paste with a little new milk, lloll it out two or three times, and in doing so, add two ounces more of butter, and touch it with the hands as little as possibld. Bake in a moderate oven. Time to prejjare, twenty minutes. Probable cost, 9d. per pound. Crust for French Tarts, Rich.— Crumble four ounces of butter into half a pound of flour, add a pinch of salt, a tea-spoonful of sifted sugar, and sufficient cold water to make it into a light paste. Give it three good rolls, fold it each time, and touch it very lightly. The less handling it has the better it will be. Time, twenty minutes to prepare. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Crust, Good.—Mix two table-spoonfuls of sifted sugar and a pinch of salt in a pound of flour, rub into it six ounces of butter, and mix the whole lightly together with a fork by adding the yolks of two eggs and sufficient water to work it into a smooth paste. Time, twenty minutes to prepare. Probable cost. Is. per pound. Crust, Lard.—Rub half a pound of lard into a pound of flour, add a pinch of salt, and make it into a paste mixing with it a cupful of water. The unmelted lard, freed from skin and thinly sliced, makes very good pastry; but a mixture of lard and dripping, or lard and butter, makes a better crust than lard alone. Time to prepare, twenty minutes. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Crust, Pat^ Brisde.—Pate Brisee, the short, crisp crust which is so much used by the French for pies, is made by working the butter, lard, or suet thoroughly into the flour, which must be very drj', before it is moistened; six oimces of butter, a pinch of salt, and a small cupful of water may be allowed for everj' poiind of flour, and if it is to be used for raised pies, it must be made rather stiff. Time to prepare, twenty minutes. Probable cost, 6d. per pound. Crust, Short, Common. — Mix two table-spoonfuls of sifted sugar, a pinch of salt, and a heaped tea-spoonful of baking-powder with one poimd of dry' flour. Rub into it three ounces of good beef dripping, and work it into a smooth paste with water or new milk. Handle it as little as possible. Bake in a mode- rate oven. Probable cost, 4d. per pound. Crust. Suet, for Puddings.—Allow six or eight ounces of suet and a pmch of salt for every pound of flour. Carefully remove the skin from the suet, and shred it as finely ascue ( 167 ) cue possible, strewing a little flour over it two or three times to prevent its sticking together. Mix it with the flour, and work it into a firm paste with a little cold water. Probable cost, 4d. per pound. Cucumbers.—This delicious fruit is in season from April to September. Though it may be served in various ways, it is never so good as when eaten raw. Many persons object to it on accoimt of its being so indigestible, and certainly this is the case; but we believe it would be found to be less so if the rind were eaten with the cucimiber. If the stalk end be kept standing in cold water, and the water be changed every day, cucumbers will keep hard for a week or two. Cucumber Ketchup. — Cucumber ketchup is useful for flavommg sauces which are to be served with rather tasteless meats, such as rabbits, veal, sweetbreads, calf's brains, &c. It is made by paring and mashing cucumbers, sprinkling salt over them, and leaving them for some hours to draw out the juice, Avhich is then strained, and boiled with a liberal allowance of seasoning. The ketchup must be kept in bottles and closely corked. Time, twenty-four hours to extract the juice. Sufficient, two dessert-spoonfuls of ketchup for half a pint of sauce. Probable cost of cucumbers, when plentiful, 6d. each. Cucumber Mangoes. — Choose large, green cucumbers, not very ripe, cut a long narrow strip out of the sides, and scoop out the seeds with a tea-spoon. Pound a few of these with a little scraped horse-radish, finely-shred garlic, mustard-seed, and white pepper; stufE the hollows out of which the seeds came as full as they will hold, replace the strips, and bind them m their places with a Little thread. Boil as much vinegar as will cover them, and pour it on them while hot; repeat this for three days. The last time boil the vinegar with half an ounce of mace, half an ounce of cloves, two ounces of pepper, two ounces of mustard-seed, a stick of horse-radish, and one clove of garlic to every half gallon of vinegar. Put the cucumbers into jars, pour the boiling liquid over them, tie the jars closely down, and set them aside for use. Time, four days. Probable cost of cucumbers, 6d. each when in fuU season. Cucumber Sauce.—Take three young cucumbers, slice them rather thickly, and fry them in a little butter till they are lightly bro\vned. Dredge them with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, and simmer them till tender in as much good brown gravy as wUl cover them. AVhite sauce or melted butter may be substituted for the gravy if these are more suitable for the dish with which the cucumber sauce is to be served. Time, about a quarter of an hour to simmer the cucumbers. Probable cost, small cucumbers, 4d. each. Sufficient, three young cucumbers for one pint of sauce. Cucumber Slice.—This machine is used for cutting cucumbers into very thin slices. In appearance it somewhat resembles the Scotch hands which are used for shaping butter, with a sharp steel blade running down the middle of the hand. Before using it the cucumber should be pared, then held in an upright position, and worked briskly and rather sharply backwards and forwards on the knife, so that each move- ment of the hand will take off a slice of cucumber. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Cucumber Soup.—Cut the cucumbers into slices, strew a little salt over them, and place them between two plates to drain off the juice. Put them into a saucepan, and cover them with some good white stock. Simmer them gently for forty minutes, then add as much more stock as may be required, and a little sorrel. Season with salt and cayenne, and thicken the soup with ground rice or arrowroot. "When it boils, draw it from the fire for a minute or two, and add a pint of milk mixed with the yolks of two eggs. The soup must not, of course, boil after the eggs are added. Time, about one hour. Probable cost. Is. 6d. per quart. Allow one large cucumber for three pints of soup, including half a pint of milk. Cucumber, Stuffed.—Peel a large cucumber. Remove a nari'ow piece from the side, and scoop out the seeds with a tea-spoon. Fill the cavity with nicely-flavoured forcemeat, replace the piece, and bind it round with strong white thread. Line the bottom of a saucepan with slices of meat and bacon, put the cucumber upon it, and then two or three more slices. Cover the whole with nicely-flavoured stock, and if more vegetables are desired, two or three sliced carrots, turnips, and onions may be added. Season with salt and pepper, and simmer gently, until cucumber, meat, and veget- ables are sufficiently cooked. If the cucumber is tender before the rest, it should be taken out, and kept hot. Thicken the gravy with a little butter and flour, and pom- it over the cucumber. Time, about one hour. Probable cost of cucum- ber, 6d. or Is. Sufficient for four or five persons. Cucumber Vinegar.—Wipe as many cucumbers as you may intend to use, slice them, without paring them, into a wide-mouthed bottle, and put with them two or three shallots, if the flavour is Hked. Pour over them as much vinegar as will cover them, and add a clove of garlic, a tea-spoonful of white pepper, and a tea-spoonftil of salt for every quart of vinegar. Let them infuse for eleven or twelve days, then strain the vinegar into small bottles, and cork these tightly. Cucumber vinegar is very good to flavour salads, hashes, &c., or to eat with cold meat. The young leaves of bumet when soaked in vinegar give just the same flavour as cucumber. Probable cost of cu- cumbers, 6d. each when in full season. As much vinegar should be poured over as will just cover the slices. Cucumber White Sauce.—Peel a large cucumber, cut it into small pieces, and take out the pips. Simmer the pieces gently in a little salt and water until quite tender, then drain them, and stew them for a few minutes longer in good white sauce, in which they must be served. Time, half an hour. Probable cost. Is. for half a pint. Sufficient for a small dish. Cucumbers (a I'Espagnole). — Cut the cucumbers into pieces about two inches longCTJO OITO (168) and one inch wide, remove the seeds, strew a little salt over thorn, and lot them remain be- tween two platoa for an hour or more. Drain off the juice, and put them into a saucepan, cover them \vith good stock, and lot thom simmer gently until quite tender, which will be in about twenty minutes. Drain them, pile them on a dish, pour some good brown sauce over them, and siTve. Time, one hour. Probable cost of cucumbers, 6d. each. Sufficient, one large cucumber for half a pint of sauce. Cucumbers (a la Poulotte),—Peel two small, young cucumbers. Remove the seeds. Cut the fruit into pieces about one inch thick and two inches long, stew these till tender in water with a little salt and vinegar in it; drain them. Put into a stewpan one ounce of butter and three-quarters of an ounce of flour; mix the butter and flour well, and let them remain about three minutes. Add^radually one pint of nicely-flavoured stock. Simmer gently for fifteen minutes. Put in the cucumbers, with a seasoning of salt and pepper, and in a minute or two two table-spoonfuls of cream. Draw the sauce from the fire, and, just before serving it, add the weU-beaten yolks of two eggs and the juice of half a lemon. Time, one hour. Pro- bable cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for one pint and a half. Cucumbers, Fried.—Take the rind from the cucumbers, slice them, dredge over them a little pepper, and lay them in flour. Make some butter very hot, put in the slices, and when they are tender and lightly browned, strew a very little salt over them; drain them, and place them on a hot dish under the steak or hash with which they are to be served. Time, ten minutes. Probable cost of cucumbers, 6d. each. Sufficient, one small cucumber for one pound of rump steak. Cucumbers, Pickled.—If the cucimibers are very young and small they may be pickled whole, if not, they are better cut into thick slices. Sprinkle salt rather plentifully over them, and let them remain twenty-four hours. Drain them from the juice, dry them in a cloth, and pour over them boiling vinegar, with half an ounce of mustard-seed, one ounce of salt, one ounce of long pepper, half a bruised nutmeg, and a pinch of cayenne to every quart of vinegar. Cover them closely, and let them re- main until next day, when the vinegar must again be boiled and poured over the cucumbers, and this process repeated each day for four days. They should then be covered closely, and care should be taken with these, as with aU pickles, that they are thoroughly covered with vinegar. It is best to pickle cucumbers by themselves, as they are apt to become mouldy. If any sign of this appears (and they should be looked at every three or four weeks to ascertain it, and on this account should be kept in a wide-mouthed glass bottle instead of an earthen jar), put them into a fresh dry bottle, boil the vinegar up again, and pour it over them. Time to pickle, one week. Pro- bable cost of cucumbers, 4d. to 6d. each. Cucumbers, Preserved (An excellent gweetmeat for dessert).—Choose cucumbers that are young, fresh, and nearly free from seeds, spht them, cut the pieces across, take out the seeds, and lay them for three days in brine strong enough to bear an egg. Put over them a cabbage-leaf or vine-leaves to keep them down, and place a cover over the pan. At the end of that time take them out, wash them in cold water, and set them on the fire with cold water, and a tiny lump of alum. As the water heats, keep adding a little more, until the cucumbers are a bright green, which they ought to be in a short time, and if they are not, change the water again and let them heat as before, but they must not boil. Drain them, and when cool pour over them a syrup, made by boiling a quart of water, a stick of cinnamon, one ounce of ground ginger, and one pound of loaf sugar for every pound of cucumber. Boil the cinnamon and ginger in the water for an hour, then drain it and add the sugar, and boil to a thick syrup. Let the cucumbers lie in this for two days, when the syrup must Ije boiled for ten minutes with ihem. Put the preparation into jars and leave it until next day, when it must be covered closely. These direc- tions must be minutely attended to, or the sweetmeat will not be a success. Time, six days. Cucumbers, Stewed.—Take two or three yotmg fresh cucumbers. Peel them, and cut them into quarters lengthwise, remove the seeds, dry them, dip them in flour and fry them in hot butter till they are lightly browned. Lift them out with an egg-slice, drain them, and put them into a saucepan with a tea-cupful of good brown gravj'. Season with pepper and salt, and stew them gently imtil tender. Just before serving add a dessert- spoonful of Chilli vinegar and a small lump of sugar. Time, half an hour. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Sufficient for a moderate-sized dish. Cucumbers Stewed with Onions.— Prepare the cucumbers as in the last recipe, and fry with them an equal number of sKces of onion, being very careful that they do not burn. Stew these in the gravy with the cucumbers. If it would be preferred a little richer, the yolks of two eggs might be added to the sauce, but of course if this were done the sauce must not be allowed to boil after the addition. Time, half an hour. Probable cost. Is. 5d. Sufficient for a moderate-sized dish. Cucumbers, To Dress.—Pare the cu- cumber and cut it into thin slices, or pare it round and round into ribands, leaving out the watery part. Sprinkle a little salt over, and in a few minutes drain oflt the water which exudes. Put the slices on a clean dish, and pour a little oil and vinegar over them, and if neces- sary add a little more salt and pepper. Many persons like a few slices of onion served with the cucimiber, or a tea-spoonful of the -v-inegax in which onions have been pickled, may be added to the other ^^negar. Probable cost, cucumbers 6d. each, when in full season. Cucumbers, To Keep, for Winter Use (German method).—Pare and slice the cucumbers. Sprinkle a little salt over them, and cover them with a dish. The next dayCUL CUB ( 169 ) drain ofE the liquor. Place the slices of cucum- ber in a jar, -with a little salt between each layer, and tie them up. Before using them rinse them in fresh water, and dress them with pepper, oil, and vinegar. Time, twenty-four hours to stand in salt. Probable cost of cucum- bers, 6d. each, when in fuU season. Cullis, or Rich Gravy.—Put one pound of undressed ham or bacon, about a quarter of an inch thick, at the bottom of a good-sized stewpan. Place upon it two pounds of lean beef or veal, a large onion stuck with three cloves, a largo carrot sliced, a bunch of savoury herbs, a bay-leaf, half a tea-spoonful of bruised celery seeds tied in muslin, or a few sticks of celery, a tea-spoonful of white pepper, and two blades of mace. Pour over these a breakfast- cupful of water. Cover closely, and simmer gently for half an hour, when the liquid will have nearly all boiled away. Turn the meat once or twice that it may be equally browned on both sides. Pour over it three pints of boiling water or stock, and simmer gently for three hours. It is usual to allow a pint of water to every pound of meat stewed. Thicken the gravy with a table-spoonful of brown thicken- ing, or with two small table-spoonfuls of flour mixed smoothly with a little cold water or cold gravy, and added gradually to the contents of the stewpan. Simmer twenty minutes longer. If too thick, a little water should be added to the gravy, if not thick enough it should be stewed a little longer. Strain the gravy, and before using it lift off the fat, which will cake at the top when the liquid is cold. This gravy will keep a week, but in hot weather it would be weU to boil it up once or twice. This preparation has various names: Cullis, Espag- nole Sauce, Savoury Gravy, and Brown Gravy. It is used for Sauces, Morels, and Truffles. Wine and ketchup may be added if desired. Probable cost, 3s. 4d. for this quantity. SufiEi- cient for one pint and a half. Cullis, or Rich Gravy (another way).— Take the bones of a large leg of mutton, or of a large piece of beef. A ham bone or a little bacon rind may be added. Break into small pieces and put into a large saucepan with five pints of water. Bring to a boil, and let it simmer very gently for five hours, being careful that it keeps on simmering slowly all the time ; then strain it. Skim it carefully. If there be time, leave it until the next day, so that the fat may be entirely removed. Return it to the sauce- pan, and put with it a large onion stuck with three cloves, a bay leaf, half a tea-spoonful of bruised celery seed tied in a muslin bag, or a few sticks of celery, a large carrot sliced, a bunch of savoury herbs, two tca-spoonf uls of salt, a tea-spoonful of white pepper, and a blade of mace. Simmer these gently for two hours; strain; stir into the mixture a tea-spoonful of Liebig's extract of meat and a little browning (see Colouring). Thicken it with a table-spoon- lul of brown thickening, or with from one to two table-spoonfuls of flour mixed smoothly with a little cold water, and added gradually to the contents of the saucepan, and let it simmer twenty minutes longer. If too thick, a little water may be added; i£ act thick enough, stew it a little longer. Strain it from the vegetables before putting it aside. This gravy will keep a week, but in hot weather it would be well to boil it up once or twice. Time, eight hours. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of the bones. Sufficient for one pint and a half. Cup Puddings.—Beat four ounces of butter to a cream; mix smoothly with it four ounces of fine flour, four table-spoonfuls of milk, a small pinch of salt, four ounces ol picked and dried currants, and four ounces of finely-sifted sugar; beat all well together; butter seven or eight cups or small basins; a little more than half fill them, and bake them in a good oven. Turn them out, and serve with wine sauce, or a little jam. Time to bake, half an hour. Probable cost, 8d. Allow one for each person. Cup Pudding. Invalid Cookery—• (another way — a wholesome, easily-digested pudding for an invalid).—Mix a small tea- spoonful of flour and a tiny pinch of salt very smoothly with a dessert-spoonful of cold water; pour over it, stirring all the time, a tea-cuTNful of boiling milk, and when it is cold strain it, to insure its being perfectly free from lumps, and add one fresh egg well beaten. Sweeten with a small tea-spoonful of sugar, pour it into a buttered basin, and bake it for twenty minutes. Turn out to serve. If it be allowed, a little sherry is an improvement. Probable cost, 3d. Sufficient for one person. Curacoa.—Take a quarter of a pound of the thin rind of Seville oranges, and pour over it a pint of boiling water; when cool, add two quarts of brandy or rectified spirits of wine, and let it remain for ten or twelve days, stirring it every day. Make a clarified syrup of two pounds of finely-sifted sugar and one pint of water; add this to tfie brandy, &c. Line a funnel with a piece of muslin, and that with chemists' filtering paper; let the liquid pass through two or three times, tUl it is quite bright. This will require a little patience. Put it into small bottles, and cork it closely. Time, twelve days. Probable cost, 2s., exclu- sive of the brandy. Sufficient for a little more than three quarts of curacoa. Curacoa imparts an agreeable flavour to cream and to punch, and is an excellent liquor. Cura90a Jelly.—Cura9oa jelly is made by substituting Seville orange-rind for the lemon-rind generally used in making calf s foot jelly, and using cura9oa instead of sherry or brandy. Curapoa Sauce.—Mix a dessert-spoonful of anowroot very smoothly with a little cold water, and pour upon it half a pint of boiling water. Put it on the fire, and let it boil for three or four minutes ; sweeten it, and flavour it with a wine-glassful of curacjoa. Probable cost, 2d., exclusive of the cura9oa. Sufficient for a small pudding. Curate's Pudding.—Put a pint of new nulk into a saucepan, with the thin rind of a large lemon, a small pinch of salt, a piece of butter the size of a walnut, and a heaped tablo-CUR ( no) CUB epoonful of sugar. Let it stand by the side of the tiro until tho flavour of the lemon is ex- tracted, and the butter dissolved. Put it aside to cool. Whisk tho yolks of four and the whites of two eggs, mix with them a pound of boiled potatoes which have been rubbed through a sieve, add the milk, &c., and pour into buttered cups. The cups must not be much more than half tilled. Turn out, and serve with wine sauce. Time to bake, about half an hour. Probable cost, 9d. Allow one for each person. Curd.—Tho most usual way to "turn" milk, as it is called, that is, to make it curdle, is to mix it, when warm, but not hot, with, a little rennet, and let it stand in a warm place until the curd is solid and the whe> clear. Rennet is made by obtaining from the butcher the dried inner stomach of a calf, and soaking a tiny piece of it in a cupful of hot water for four hours. The liquid at the end of that time is what is called rennet. An inch of the dried skin so soaked in water will turn a gallon. The less rennet used, the more delicate will be the curd. The skin may be kept a long time if it is hung in a cool place; it should be covered to protect it from dust. Rennet may also be bought at the grocer's in small bottles at Is. each. A little lump of alum put into cold milk and set on the fire will turn milk, or a few weU-beaten eggs stirred in just as the milk is boiling. A pinch of salt added after the milk curdles will assist the whey to separate. Whey is by some considered a wholesome drink for feverish persons, and in country places the lasses often wash in it to improve their complexions. Curd Cheesecakes.—Turn one quart of milk with a little rennet; drain oflE the whey, and mix with the curd a piece of butter the size of a large egg, beaten to a cream; press it through a coarse sieve, and mix with it a heaped table-spoonful of pounded loaf sugar, the peel of a lemon finely shred, two table-spoonfuls of currants, two-well-beaten eggs, and a dozen sweet and two bitter almonds, blanched and pounded. Line some patty-pans with a good crust, three-parts fill them with the mixture, and bake in a good oven. Time to bake, about twenty minutes. Probable cost, Id. each. Sufficient, a dozen for a dish. Curd Fritters.—Press a pint of curds through a mortar, and mix with it the whites of two and the yolks of four well-beaten eggs, a dessert-spoonful of flour, a table-spoonful of sifted sugar, and a pinch of pounded cinnamon. Put some lard into a frying-pan, let it get quite hot, drop the batter into it, fry until lightly browned, drain the fritters from the fat, and serve them as hot as possible. Time, ten minutes to fry. Probable cost, lOd. for this quantity. Sufficient for five or six persons. Curd Pudding.—Turn a quart of milk with a httle rennet; drain oft' the whey, and mix the curd with two ounces of butter beaten to a cream, three table-spoonfuls of finely- grated bread-crumbs, two table-spoonfula of sifted sugar, a table-spoonful of new milk, a couple of fresh eggs, and a glass of white wine. Butter some plain round moulds, rather more than half fill them with the mixture, and bake thorn in a good oven for about twenty minutes. Turn them out, sift a Uttle sugar over them, stick a few sliced and blanched almonds in them, and serve with cura(,'oa sauce. Probable cost, lOd., exclusive of the wine. Sufficient for four or five persons. Curd star.—Put a pint of milk, the rind of a lemon, and a tiny pinch of salt into a saucepan, and mix with it, when boiling, four eggs well beaten ; boil until it curdles, sweeten, and season it with a little wine, and let it boil until the whey separates entirely. Drain it through a colander or any round or star-shaped mould that has holes in it, and when it is cold and firm, and tho whey has drained quite off, turn it out and serve with custard round tho dish, but not upon the star. Time, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, is. 2d, including the custard. Sufficient for four persons. Curds and Cream.—Curd is usually served in a dish with cream, sweetened and flavoured, poured round it; it should be drained from the whey and flavoured with a little light wine. Time, a quarter of an hour to separate the curd. Sufficient, a quart of milk curdled and a pint of cream for a moderate-sized dish. Probable cost, 2s. Currants.—Under the general name currants are included the red, white, and black currants which grow in our gardens, and the small dried grapes imported into this countrj'' which are sold in the grocers' shops, and which are so largely used in making cakes and puddings. The juice of red, white, and black currants is specially adapted for medicinal purposes, and the fruit is also extensively used for jams, jellies, tarts, and dessert. Currant and Raspberry Tart.—The addition of a few raspberries very greatly im- proves the flavour of a red ciirrant tart, but they must be carefully looked over to see that there are no httle worms inside the berries after they are picked. Strip the currants from the stalks, and allow three heaped table-spoonfuls of moist sugar to every quart of fruit. Line the edges of a deep pie-dish with good crust {see Crust for Fruit Tarts). Place an inverted cup in the middle of the dish. Fill the latter with the fruit, and cover it with the same crust as the edges. Ornament the top as fancy dictates, and bake in a good oven. Sift a little poimded sugar over the tart before serving it. Time to bake, haK an hour or more, according to the size of the dish. Probable cost. Is. Sufficient for four or five persons. Currant Cakes.—For currant cakes baked in a dish or mould several recipes have already been given under Christmas Cakes, Plum Cakes, &c.; two or three more are given here for cakes, which may either be dropped tn small rounds on a buttered tin, or put into a buttered dish, and baked in a quick oven. Clean and pick two ounces of currants; rub a quarter of a pound of fresh butter into half a pound of flour, add the currants, a little grated nutmeg, and four table-spoonfuls of sugar. Mix all together with two well-bcaten eggs, a table-spoonful of brandy, and sufficient new milk to make a lighiCXTR ( 171) CXTR dough. Holl out thin, and cut into cakes. Or wash and pick one pound of currants; heat one pound of fresh hutter to a cream, add one pound of sugar, one pound and a half of flour, a tea- Bpoonful of powdered cinnamon, a tea-spoonful of grated nutmeg, the currants, and four eggs well beaten. Another recipe: Clean and pick half a pound of dried currants; heat a quarter of a'poimd of butter to a cream; mix with it a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar, half a pound of dried flour, the yolks of four and the whites of three eggs well beaten, the currants, and a tea-spoonful of powdered cinnamon; beat aU well together for a quarter of an hour. An- other w^ay (economical): Rub a quarter of a pound of dripping into one pound of flour; add a pinch of salt, two heaped tea-spoonfuls of baking powder, three ounces of picked cvirrants, two table-spoonfuls of sugar, half a nutmeg grated, and enough milk or water to form a stiff dough. Time, about twenty minutes to bake. Sufficient, one pound of flour, with the other ingredients, will make about one dozen cakes. Probable cost, from ^d. to 2d. each. Currant Champagne. — Take four quarts of very ripe white currants and four quarts of very ripe red currants; pour over ttiem six quarts of cold water, and bruise and stir them about every day for six days. Strain the juice through a jelly-bag, and put four pounds of loaf sugar to every gallon of Hqiiid; add one ounce of isinglass, dissolved in a little water, and two table-spoonfuls of fresh yeast. Leave the wine for two or three days, then put it into a cask, which, when the fermentation is quite over, must be closed. It will be ready to use in six or eight months. Probable cost of currants, variable; when plentiful, 4d. per quart. Currant Cream Ice. — Take one pint of red currant-juice (see Currant, Red, Cream), mix with it a pint of cream, sweeten "uid freeze. A few raspberries or strawberries are an improvement. The ice-cream may be made with red currant jelly instead of juice if the fresh fruit is not in season. Ciurant-water ice is much more wholesome and refreshing than cream ice. It is made by mixing a pint of juice with syrup produced by boiling a pound and a half of sugar with a quart of water, and then freezing the mixture like cream. Time, half an hour. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. per quart. {See also Currant Water Ice). Currant, Red, Cream.—Express a pint of red currant juice. In order to do this pick the currants and put them into an earthen jar. Cover it closely and put it into a large pan of cold water, which must be so full that it wiU reach to the top of the jar. Let it simmer for two hours. Drain the juice from the currants, mix a pint of it with a pint of thick cream,, add an ounce and a haK of melted gelatine and some sugar. Pour the mixture into a mould, and set it in a cool place to stiffen. Currant, Red, Cream (another way). —Put a small jar of red currant-jelly, the juice of a lemon, half a cupful of water, and two table-spoonfuls of sugar into a saucepan. When the jelly is dissolved, let the mixture cool a Uttle, then add more tragarif necessary. Timo, haK an hour. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Suffi- cient for one quart. Currant Custard.—Express the juice from some fine fresh ripe currants. This is best done by putting them in a jar, which must he covered closely and placed in a large pan of cold water, and simmered gently iintil the juice flows freely. Mix a pint of water with every pint of juice, add a little sugar, and put the liquid on the fire. Mix a small portion of ground rice smoothly with a little of the liquid while cold, and add this gradually to the rest. Let it simmer gently, stirring it constantly, until it is quite smooth and well thickened, then pour it into cups or glasses to be taken as custard. Grate a little nutmeg, and put one ratafia on the surface of each custard. The custards are the better for standing a night to stiffen. If set in some very cold place—for instance, in a tin pail plunged in a tub of cold water fresh drawn from the pump —these custards will be as pleasant to the palate in sultry weather as iced custards, vsdthout their disadvantages. Arrowroot may be used instead of ground rice. By increasing the quantity of either ingredient, the custard may be made stiff enough to be set in a mould, and turned out before serving. Time, a quarter of an hour to boU; about two hours to express the juice. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for six persons. Currant Custard (another way).—Take a breakfast-cupful of red currant-juice, ex- pressed as in the last recipe. Pour it when hot upon a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, and stir it tUl the sugar is dissolved. Put it into a saucepan, and add to it very gradually the weli- beaten yolks of four eggs. Stir it over a moderate fire till it begins to thicken, then pour it out and continue to stir till nearly cool, when a cupful of cream must be added. Serve in custard glasses. Time to simmer, a few minutes. Probable cost, Is. 8d. Sufficient for six or eight glasses, each one three-parts full. Currant Dumpling.—Make a light suet crust {see Crust, Suet). Before moistening it mix half a potmd of dried currants with every pound of fiour. Add milk to make a light batter, and boil either in one large dumpling tied in a floured cloth, or in half a dozen without cloths. In the latter case the dumplings should be dropped into boiling water, and be looked after at first to see that they do not stick to the pan. Serve with lemon-juice and sugar. Time to boU, one hour and a half with a clotl^ ; half an hour without. The dumplings wiU rise to the top when done enough. Probable cost, lOd., for half a dozen small dumplings. Currant Fool.—Strip some fresh, ripe red currants from the stalks, and stew them gently with three table-spoonfuls of sugar to every pint of fruit. Press them through a sieve, and when nearly cold mix with them finely-grated bread-crumbs and cream or new mUk. Time to stew the currants, half an hour. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for four or six persons. Currant Fritters.—Whisk three eggs thoroughly, and mix with them gradually six table-Bpoonfuls of fine flour and a pinch of salt. Beat the mixture until quite smooth, then advi(172) CTTB 1 CTTB one pint of milk. Put a little lard or dripping into a frjang-pan. When quite hot, atir a hand- ful of picked and dried currants into the batter, and drop it into the pan in fritters about the size of a penny bun. Tliree or four may bo cooked together, but they must be kept apart. When lightly browned on one side turn them over on the other. Drain the fat from them, and serve them on a hot napkin. Time to fry, a few minutes. Probable cost, 8d. Suffi- cient for four persons. Currant Fritters without Eggs.— Mix a pint of mild ale Nvith as much nour as will make a thick batter. Take care that it is perfectly smooth and free from lumps. Add a few currants, a little sugar and grated nutmeg, and fry as in the last recipe. Sufficient for four persons. Time to fry, a few minutes. Probable cost, 5d. Currant Jam, Black. — Take equal weights of pounded lump sugar and picked fruit. Put the fruit in the preserving-pan, and pour into it two table-spoonfuls of water for every pound of fruit; boil and skim. When the fruit has boiled for twenty minutes, add the sugar. Stir the fruit well to keep it from burning, and boil it half an hour longer, counting from the time when it simmers equally all over. Put a spoonful of the juice and fruit to cool upon a plate. If the juice runs off, the jam must be boiled longer, if it jellies it is done enough. The jam wiU not keep unless the fruit was gathered when dry. Probable cost, 8d. per pound. Sufficient, a pound of fruit with sugar for a pound of jam (see also the close of the recipe Currant Jelly, Black). Currant Jam, Black (superior).—Boil two pounds of black currants imtil the jmce flows freely. Put the fruit through a sieve, leave behind whatever vrill not pass through. Boil the pulp for five or six minutes, Hft it from the fire, and stir into it a pound of powdered loaf sugar. Boil it again until it thickens, and pour it into jars for use. Time to boil the pulp with the sugar, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, currants 4d. per quart. Currant Jam, Red and WMte.— Take some fine ripe red or white currants ; let them be gathered on a dry day, and be sure that they are fresh and free from dirt. Strip them from the stalks, and weigh them with an equal weight of finely - pounded loaf sugar. Let them remain on the fire exactly nine minutes after boiling. Pour the jam into jars, and cover it with brandied papers, and put over these tissue-paper dipped in gum. There is no economy in using a smaller proportion of sugar, as the jam requires to boil so much longer that the quantity is reduced sufficiently to make the difference. Probable cost, when plentiful, 4d. per quart. Sufficient, one pint of fruit for one pound and a quarter of jam. Currant JeUy, Black.—Draw the juice from some fine ripe black currants. In order to do this, put them, as wo have told already {see Currant Custard), into an earthen jar, cover this closely, put it in a pan of cold water, and boil the miit gently vmtil the juice is ex- pressed. Strain it through a jelly-bag, but do not press it, and boil it for a minute or two. Add three-quarters of a pound of sugar to every pint (jf juice, and boil ten minutes longer. If the jelly becomes firm when a spoonful in put on a plate it is boiled enough; if not, boil a Little longer. Put it into small jars and cover closely, first with brandied papers and afterwards with gummed tissue-paper. If a larger proportion of sugar were added it would jelly sooner, but it would then be too luficious to be agreeable in sickness. If the juice is not pressed from the currants, the latter, with the addition of a little sugar and water, will boil into a jam fit to be used for kitchen and nursery puadings, but it will not keep long. Probable cost of currants, 4d. per quart. About one pint of juice may be obtained from two quarts of fruit. Currant Jelly, Red.—Red currant jelly may be made in the same way as black, re- membering only that one pound of sugar will be required for one pint of juice. The fiavour may be improved by the addition of a few raspberries, and both the flavour and colour if one pint of white currants is used with three of red. When straining the juice the fruit must not be pressed or the jelly will not be clear. Some prefer to sweeten red currant jelly by pounding loaf sugar very finely, and making it quite hot in the oven, taking care that it is not in the least dis- coloured ; then mixing it with the juice which, though hot, must not boil until the sugar is dissolved. Be careful to use either a silver or a wooden spoon in making jelly; with any other the flavour will be spoilt. The jelly may be made very stiff by adding half an ounce of isinglass to each pint of juice. The isinglass should be dissolved in a little of the juice, and put in with the sugar. Time, about two hours to express the juice. Probable cost of currants, 4d. per quart. Three pints of fruit will pro- bably yield one pint of juice. Currant Jelly, White-—This jelly may be made in the same way as the last, or the fruit may be bruised and the juice strained .through a jelly-bag. It must not be pressed, or the jeUy will not be clear. The fruit which is left in the bag may be boiled into nursery preserve. Allow one pound of sugar to every pint of juice. Put both into a preserying-pan, stir the liquid imtil it boils, and boil for six minutes. When pounded sugar is used for jellies it should be prepared at home. That which is bought at the shops may be adulte- rated, and then the colour of the jelly would be spoilt. If it is wished to have the jelly very stiff, half an ounce of isinglass may be used for every pint of juice. It should be dissolved in a little of the juice and put in with the sugar. Three pints of currants will probably yield one pint of juice. Probable cost of cur- rants, 6d. per quart. Currant Liquor.—Put black-currants with an equal quantity of leaves mto a jar, and cover them with rectified spirits of wine. Let them soak for seven or eight weeks, then strain the liquid through a linen bag, and mix with it a syrup made by boiling one pound of sugarCUB OUB (178) with half a pint of water. The syrup should be added while hot. Probable cost, currants, 4d. per quart when plentiful. As much spirit should be poured over the fruit as will cover it, and half a pound of sugar should be allowed to every pound of fruit. Currant Lozenges, Black.—Put three quarts of ripe black currants, perfectly free from dust, into a preserving-pan, and let them simmer gently untU the juice flows freely, assisting its flow by bruising the fruit with a wooden spoon. Squeeze the fruit through a sieve, and press it to obtain as much juice as possible. Return the I'uice to the pan, with a quarter of a poimd of irown sugar to every pint of juice. Let it boil for three-quarters of an hour, and a few minutes before taking it off, add half an ounce of dis- solved isinglass for every quart of juice. Pour the paste rather thinly over plates, and put it before the fire for three days to dry. Put the cakes into a tia box with a little white paper between each, and cut them into lozenges, as required. Probable cost of currants, 4d. per quart. Currant Pancakes.—Put the thin rind of a lemon into a saucepan with a pint of milk, and let it stand by the side of the fire for some time to draw out the flavour. When this is extracted, put with the milk two ounces of butter and two table-spoonfuls of sugar, and when the butter is melted, put the milk on one side to cool. Mix eight ounces of flour very smoothly with six well-beaten eggs and two table-spoonfuls of water, add a pinch of salt and a table-spoonful of brandy, and afterwards the cooled milk. Melt a little butter or lard in" the frying-pan; when quite hot, pour in sufficient batter to cover it thinly, immediately strew a few dried and picked currants over it, loosen the edges, brown the pancake on both sides, and serve with a little sugar and lemon- juice. Time, a few miuutes to fry. Allow one for each person. Probable cost, Is. 2d., exclu- sive of the brandy. Currant Paste.—Put any quantity of ripe currants, either red or white, or a part of each mixed, into a hair sieve; press out three parts of the juice, and put it aside for making jelly. Rub the rest of the fruit with the juice through the sieve, and boil it, stirring it con- stantly, till it is dry. Add half a pound of sugar for each pound of the original weight of fruit, and boil twenty minutes longer. Be careful not to let the paste bum. Put it into jars, and store for use. Currant Pudding, Black, Red or Wnite.—Cut a piece of bread about half an inch thick, the size and shape of half a crown. Place it at the bottom of a round basin, and put some fingers of bread, either crust or cnmib, in an upright position round it, leaving a dis- tance of an inch between each finger. Boil a pint and a half of currants stripped from their stalks, with a quarter of a pound of sugar. When the luice flows freely, put it and the fruit gently into the mould, a spoonful at a time, and the more solid part first, so as to keep the bread in its position. Cover the top thickly with little sippets of bread, place a plate over the top, and o\ er that a weight to squeeze in the juice, and leave the pudding till cold. Turn it out before serving, and send a little custard or cream to table with it. Stale bread may be used for this pudding. Time, half an hour. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of the custard. Sufficient for five or six persons. Currant Pudding, Boiled, Black, Bed, or White-—Line a plain round mould which has been well buttered with a good suet crust (see Crust, Suet for Puddings). Put in the currants, stripped of their stalks, and allow a quarter of a pound of moist sugar for a quart of currants. Place a cover on the top, make the edges very secure, so that the juice cannot escape, and tie the pudding in a floured cloth. Put it into boiling water. A few raspberries or strawberries are an agreeable addition. Time, two hours and a half to boil. Probable cost of currants, about 4d. per quart. Sufficient « for five or six persons. Currant Salad.—Pick equal weights ol white and red currants, strawberries, and cherries, and place them in alternate layers on a high dish. Strew a little white sugar on each layer, and pour over the whole some thick cream, or place little lumps of Devonshire cream at short distances from each other upon the fruit. Time, a quarter of an hour to pre- pare. Probable cost, 8d. per pound. Sufficient, a half poimd of each fruit for a good dish. Currant Sauce for Sucking Pig.— Wash and pick one ounce of ciuTants. BoU them in half a pint of water for a few minutes, and pour them over a cupful of finely-grated bread-crumbs. Let them soak for a while. Beat them weU with a fork, and stir them into a cupful of good melted butter. Add two table« spoonfuls of the brown gravy made for the pig, a glass of port, and a pinch of salt. Stir the sauce over the fire imtil it is quite smooth. Sometimes currants are simply washed and dried, and sent in on a dish with the pig. Time, half an hour. Probable cost, 6d. per pint, exclusive of the wine. Sufficient for a smaU pig. Currant Sauce for Venison.—The currant sauce which used to be served with venison is the same as that given in the last recipe as intended for sucking pig. Currant Shrub, White or Bed.— Put two quarts of red or white currants into a jar. Cover it closely, and place it in a large pan of cold water. Let it simmer gently until the juice flows freely. Then strain the juice, and allow six oimces of loaf sugar, and a quart of rum to every pint of juice. The sugar should be stirred untU dissolved in the wai-m liquid, and the spirit added afterwards. Strain and bottle for use. Time, one hour and a half or two hours to draw out the juice. Sufficient for three pints of shrub. Probable cost of currants, 4d. per quart. Currant Syrup.-Take three pounds of red and three of white currants. A pound of cherries or a pound of raspberries would be an improvement, but they can be dispensed with. Bruise the fruit slightly, and put it into an earthen jar. Cover this closely, put it into aCUB ( 174 ) CUR saucepan of cold water, and lot the fruit simmer gently until the juico Hows freely. Strain it once or twice if necessary, and leave it until the next day in some very cool place, being careful to guard it from dust. If the juice is very clear it may then be poured off, leaving any sediment at the bottom of tho vessel. Weigh the juico, put it into a clean saucepan, and add an equal weight of good sugar broken into small pieces. Lot it simmer, and stir it to prevent tho sugar sticking to tho bottom, but do not let it boU. Remove the scum carefully, and when no more rises, put the syrup into an earthen jar to cool. In twelve hours it may be put into small-sized dry bottles, corked and sealed, and stoi-ed in a cool but dry place. This delicious preparation, retaining as it does so completely the Savour of the fruit, is most useful for making isinglass jelly and sauce for swoot puddings; when mixed with cold water it makes a refreshing summer diink, and is especially suited to invalids. It is also very nice poured over or round blancmanges or rice moulds. Time, two days. Probable cost of currants, 4d. to 6d. per quart. Currant Water (a refreshing summer drink).—Mix a quart of red currants and a cupful of raspberries. Bruise them well; pour over them two quarts of cold water, and add half a pound of loaf sugar. Put them into a preser- ving-pan, and when they begin to simmer, take them off, put with them a little writing-paper soaked in water till it is reduced to a pulp, to assist the clearing, and strain the liquid through a jelly-bag. Add as much sugar as is agreeable to the taste, and serve in glass jugs. Time, half an hour. Probable cost of currants, 4d. to 6d. per quart. Sufficient for three quarts of water. Currant Water (another way).—Dis- solve a dessert-spoonful of red or white currant i'elly in a tumblerful of warm water. Let the iquid get quite cold, then add about ten grains of tartaric acid. This and other cooling summer drinks should be taken in moderation, as they are by no means wholesome. Time, a few minutes. Probable cost, 2d. per glass. Currant Water Ice.—Get one pint of the juice of red currants, to which have been added a few raspberries to give additional colour. Add a pound and a half of sugar boiled to a syrup with one quart of water, and rnix the juice thoroughly with the syrup. Strain the liquid into the mould and freeze. Time, half an hour to draw out the juice. Sufficient for three pints of ice. {See also Currant Cream Ice.) Currant Wine, Black.—Take six quarts of black currant juice ; mix it with six quarts of cold water and twelve pounds of moist sugar. When the sugar is dissolved put the liquor into a cask, which must be kept in a warm, dry room. It will ferment without anj^thing else being added to it. A little of the liquid should be kept with which to fill up the cask when the fermentation is over, and the wine has been well skimmed. Before closing the cask add one quart of brandy. Currant wine should not be bottled for twelve months, and will bo im- proved if kept even longer. This wine will be good for several yeara. Probable cost of cur- rants, -Id. to Gd. per quart. Currant Wine, Red.—Take ihi.,o gai- lous of rijje red currants, pick fiom the stalks, bruise them and press out the juice, and infuse tho residue in four and a half gallons of cold water. Mix well and repeatedly to insure equal diffusion; press out the liquor, mix it with the juice, and add fourteen poundw of loaf sugar. When the sugar is dissolved, transfer tho whole to a cask large enough to leave some space unfilled, put in the bung and bore a hole tlu-ough it with the gimlet, and allow the cask to stand where the tem{>erature \h not less than seventy degrees, for a month. By that time the fermentation will have greatly de- creased. Add three pounds of sugar, dissolved in two quarts of warm water, shake the cask well, and bung it as before. In about six or eight weeks, on listening at the bunghole, your ear will inform you that fermentation has ceased, then rack off the clear liquor from the sediment, and mix with it a quart of the best French brandy. Set it by in the cellar for about two months, when the liquor is again to be racked off into a clean but not new cask, which should be quite filled; it must now be tightly bunged down, so as to exclude the air perfectly, and be preserved for three or four years at a temperature of seventy degrees. When neces- sary the cask should be for this purpose kept near a fire. Time, about three months to cement. Currant Wine, White.—White currant wine may be made in the same way as red, with two ounces of bruised bitter almonds mixed in the fermenting liquor. Currant Wine from Unripe Pniit. —Cm-rants may be used for making wine before they are quite ripe. They should be bruised sufficiently to burst the berries, and have the water poured over them: the sugar may be intro- duced at once. If this is done the wine will be strong and highly flavoured, though not very sweet. The wine must be well strained before it is put into the cask. The same proportions may be allowed for this wine as for black cur- rant, and the same directions may be followed. The only difference will be that greater care will be required in separating the stalks from the fruit. Currants, Compote of.—Pick a quart of ripe red and white currants quite free from dust. Put half a pound of loaf sugar and a breakfast- cupful of cold water into a saucepan. Simmer the syrup gently for a quarter of an hour, then put in the currants, and simmer them for ten minutes longer. Put the fruit into a compote dish, pour the syrup over it, and serve cold. Currants prepared thus are excellent served with blancmange or a rice mould. Probable cost of currants, 4d. to 6d. per quart. Sufficient for a good-sized dish. CTirrantS, Iced.—^Vhisk the white of an egg thoroughly until firm, then mix it with three dessert-spoonfuls of cold water. Dip into this, exceedingly fine bimches of ripe red and white currants, one bunch at a time. Let them drain for a minute, then roll themCUB OTTR (176) in finely-pounded white sugar, and lay them carefullV on sheets of paper to dry. The sugar will crystallise on the curi-ants, and will have a very good effect. A pretty dish may be made by icing in this way different coloured fruits suittible for dessert, and arranging them taste- fully on a dish. Time, four or five hours to crj'stallise. Currants, To Bottle, for Tarts in Winter.—Ascertain that the fruit has been gathered when it was quite dry or it will not keep. Pick it and put it into clean, wide- mouthed, dry bottles. A few strawberries or raspberries may be added or not. Cover the fruit with water. Soak some bladder in water, tie a Uttle tinnly over the top of each bottle, and wTap a little hay round the bottles; then put them into a pan of cold water, and let them stand upright without touching one another; the water should reach nearly to the necks of the bottles. Put the pan on the fire, and when the water is on the point of boiling, draw it to one side, and let it remain for half an hour. The bottles should not be taken out of the water until it is nearly cold. Tie strong paper over each bottle, and keep them in a bottle-rack in a cool, dry place, with the necks downwards. The fruit will keep good for years. The water must not boU. Shake the &uit well down, or the bottles will not be more than half full. Currants, To Clean.—The best way to clean dried currants is to rub a handful of flour into them; then put them into a colander, shake it well to get rid of the stalks, and after- wards pour over the currants a little cold water. Press the currants in a soft cloth and lay them on a dish, look them carefully over to see that no small stones are amongst them, put them on the hearth at a little distance from the fire, and let them gradually dry. If placed too near, so as to dry very quickly, they will be hard. Currants, to Keep, for Tarts.—Gather the fruit when it is quite dry and not over-ripe, pick it from the stalks, and put it into a large dry earthen jar, with a quarter of a pound of moist sugar to each pound of fruit. Put it in a good oven and bake it for twenty minutes. Warm some preserving jars, be sure that they are quite dry, and fill them with the fruit. Tie a bladder over them immediately and store them in a dry place. They will keep good through the winter if they are not opened, but they require to be used when the cover has once been removed. Probable cost of currants, 4d. to 6d. per quart. Curry.—This favourite dish, especially a favoiirite with those who have resided in India, is often rendered unpalatable by the same curry seasoning being used for every dish, however differently may be the viands of which it is com- posed. It must be evident that the same flavouring will not be suitable for a curry of chicken, of fish, or of calf's head. The season- ing should always he adapted to the character of the meat, and, if it can be ascertained, to the taste of those who have to eat it. The first thing to be attended to is to have good stock, Becondly, suitable seasoning, and thirdly, plenty pf properly prepared rice, for the rest of the dish 18 only intended to serve as a sort of relish to this most important part of it. The meat, whether cooked or otherwise, should be cut into smaU convenient-sized pieces, and fried in hot butter until lightly browned, with sUced onions and mushrooms, or mushi-oom powder. A little good stock should then be added, which, after simmering a little while, should be thickened with curry powder, curry paste, and, if liked, a little ground rice. The boiled rice should be piled round the dish. Though fresh meat is always to be preferred as being more juicy, yet cold meat is excellent warmed up as a curry; and it should be remembered that it does not require so much stewing as fresh. When other proportions are not given, a tea- spoonful of curry powder, a tea-spoonful of cirrry paste, a tea-spoonful of ground rice, and a breakfast-cupful of gravy may be allowed for every pound of meat. The addition of a soxir apple, or a little grated cocoa-nut, or tomatoes, or cucumbers, or green goosebemes (seeded), or spinage, will greatly improve various ciirries. It must be remembered that the vege- tables are to be stewed in the gravy until they have imparted their flavour to it, then passed through a sieve, and returned to the curry. Curry, Calcutta.—Cut up a young chicken, either cooked or raw, into convenient- sized pieces. If home-made cunry powder is preferred it may be made by pounding tor^ether ; and mixing thoroughly a table-spoonful of coriander seed, a table-spoonful of poppy seed, a salt-spoonful of turmeric, half a salt-spoonfuJ of red chilli, half a salt-spoonful of cumin seed, half a salt-spoonful of gi'ound ginger, and a salt-spoonful of salt, tienerally speaking, how- ever, excellent curry paste and powder may be I purchased of respectable dealers for as little as I the ingredients would cost. Mix this smoothly I with a quarter of a pound of butter, and fry two sliced onions in it till lightly brownep. Then fry the chicken. Add the milk of a cocoa-nut, and simmer all gently together for a quarter of an hour. Stir in the juice of a small lemon, and serve with rice. Time, three- quarters of an hour. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Curry Gravy.—Make a powder by mixing together two table-spoonfuls of ground rice with a salt-spoonful of pepper, a salt-spoonful of salt, and a salt-spoonful of mixed sweet herbs dried and powdered. Cut two pounds of veal into pieces about an inch and a half square and half an inch thick. Dip them in hot butter, then in the powder, and fry them in butter tiU lightly browned on both sides. Melt a little butter over the fire, and fry in it six large onions and two apples sliced. When tender rub them through a sieve, and mix smoothly with the pulp a table-spoonful of curry paste, a table- spoonful of ground rice, a tea-spoonful of curry powder, and as much nicely-flavoured stock as is required. Stir the sauce over the fire, and put the fried meat into it. Simmer gently for forty minutes. Just before serving, squeeze over it the juice of a lemon. AVlien the flavour is liked, a quarter of a clove of garlic may be stewed with the meat. Probable cost, 2b. 64. Sufficient for four or five persongCUE ( 176) CUB Curry, Kebobbed. — Kobobbed or OUbbubed curry very much rosombleB auy other, the dilt'erence being that half the meat consists of pork, either fi-esh or pickled, and that the pieces are run through with small skewers about four inches long, before being cooked, and by means of thorn are fastened to the jack and basted well during cooking. They are first dusted with curry powder. The sauce is made by frying until tender a snmll acid apple, a clove of garlic, and two small onions, then pressing them tlirough a sieve, and mixing with them a table-spoonful of curry powder, half a tea-spoonful of salt, and the same of pepper. The paste should bo mixed smoothly with a cupful of gi-avy, and simmeied gently with the meat until tender. A bay-leaf may be stewed with the gravy. The juice of a lemon should be added before serving. Simmer for half an hour. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of the meat. Sufficient for four or five persons. Curry Liquid, Essence of.—Put three ounces of powder [see Curry Powder) into a quart of strong vinegar. Let it remain for a fortnight, then strain off the clear liquid, and put into bottles for use. Cork closely. Pro- bable cost, Is. A dessert-spoonful will flavour half a pint of saace or gravy. Curry, Madras.—Slice one large or two small onions, and fry them in three ounces of butter tiU they are lightly browned. Mix a dessert-spoonful of curry powder, a dessert- ' spoonful of curry paste, and a tea-spoonful of ground rice smoothly with the butter, and add a salt-spoonful of salt, and a breakfast-cupful of good gravy. Cut about one pound of meat, either fowl, rabbit, veal, or beef, into conve- nient-sized pieces, about one inch and a half square. Put these in with the gravy, and simmer gently for forty minutes. Remember to stir it every few minutes. A little rasped cocoa-nut, or the strained juice of a lemon, or an acid apple, is an improvement to the curry, which should be served with a border of rice round the dish. Probable cost, Is. 8d. Suffi- cient for four persons. Curry, Malay.—Take two ounces of blanched almonds. Fry them in three ounces of butter till they are lightly browned, but do not let them bum. Drain, and pound them to a smooth paste with the rind of a small lemon, and a sliced onion. Cut a young chicken into convenient-sized pieces, and fry them in the butter. Drain them. Mix a table-spoonful of curry powder, and a heaped salt-spoonful of salt, very smoothly with the butter. Add gradu- ally a cupful of gravy, put in the chicken and paste, and simmer for half an hour, then add a cupful of cream. Let the curry nearly boil, and just before serving squeeze the juice of a small lemon into it. Time, altogether, onQ hour. Probable cost, 48. Sufficient for four or five persons. Curry of Vegetables.—A palatable dish may be made by cun-ying green vegetables such as cabbages, cauliflowers, green peas, beans, vegetable-marrow, spinach, or sorrel. They may be cooked separately, or one or two kincjfl together. Cut them into small shreds. Pry them in hot butter, wldch has been mixed with a liberal allowance of curry powder, and a little salt, and wlien lightly browned cover thorn with cream, now uiilk, or good gravy, A sliced onion may bo added, or not, according to taste. Let them sinmier till sufficiently cooked. Just before serving, squeeze the juice of a lemon over them, and send rice to table with thorn. The time which this dish will require will vary with the nature of the vegetables. Probable cost, about Is. 6d. for a moderate-sized dish. Curry Pimento.—Cut a fowl into joints. Mix a table-spoonful of curry powder with half a tea-spoonful of cayenne, and a pinch of salt, liub this well into the pieces of fowl, and stew them gently in a breakfast-cupful of good nicely-flavoured stock. Let them simmer gently for half an hour, and before serving squeeze in the juice of a small lemon. Serve on a hot dish with half a pound of rice boiled, and piled round. Time, altogether, three-quarters of an hour. Sufficient for three or four persons. Probable cost, 3s. Curry Powder.—Curry powder consists of turmeric, black pepper, coriander seeds, cayenne, fenugreek, cardamoms, cumin, ginger, allspice, and cloves; but the three latter are often omitted. The seeds should be ground in a mill, and mixed with the powder, and when made it should be kept in a bottle closely stop- I ped. A spoonful of cocoa-nut kernel, dried and poimded, gives a delicious flavour to a cui-ry, as does also acid apple. A recipe for making curry powder has already been given {see Curry, Calcutta), and we give another in the following paragraph, but we think it will be found quite as satisfactory and economical to purchase curry powder of a first-class dealer as to make it at home. Curry Powder (Dr. Kitchener's recipe). Put six oimces of coriander seed, five ounces of turmeric, two ounces each of black pepper, and mustard seed, half an oimce of cumin seed, half an oimce of cinnamon, and one oimce of lesser cardamoms, into a cool oven for a night. Pound them thoroughly in a marble mortar, and rub them through a sieve. Keep the powder in a weU-corked bottle. Probable cost, 3s. Suffi- cient, one table-spoonful of curry powder to a pound of meat, and a cupful of gravy. Curry Sauce.—To make curry sauce quickly, mix a dessert-spoonful of curry paste or powder smoothly with half a pint of melted butter. Time, ten minutes. Sufficient for a small dish of curry. Probable cost, 4d. Curry, To Boil Rice for.-;-Patna rice is the correct rice to use for curries, but it is not of so good a quality as Carolina, and, besides, it cannot always be obtained. The thing to be attended to is to have each grain of rice distinct and unbroken,.and at the same time quite tender. This can be attained quite as easily with Caro- lina, as with Patna rice, but the fofmer -n-ill require boiling a few minutes longer than the latter. Wash the rice in several waters. Pick out every discoloured and imhusked grain, and boil it in plenty of cold water. This is the secret of having the rice whole. The water will keepCCS CUS ( 177 ) the grains sepai-ato. Leave the saucepan un- covered. Biing the water slowly to a boil. Shake the pau occasionally to prevent burning, but do not stir the rice at all. When it has simmered gently for twenty or twenty-five minutes it wlU most Hkely be tender. Patna rice will not require so long. Drain it in a co- lander, and let it dry gently before the fire. iSer^'e it roimd the curry. Probable cost, 4d. per pound. Sufficient, half a pound of rice for a moderate-sized dish of curry. Custard.—It should be remembered that custard must not be allowed to boU after the eggs are added to the milk. If it does it will curdle, and be lumpy. The best way is to put it into a jug, and place this jug in a large saucepan of cold water, which must be put on the fire until the custard thickens, stining it all the time. The yolks only of the eggs are required for custard. The whites may be set aside and used for other purposes. Custard (a la Eeine).—Sweeten, flavour, and boU a breakfast-cupful of thick cream, add a tiny pinch of salt, and stir in the well- beaten yolks of six eggs. Pour the mixture into a jug, and set the jug in a saucepan of cold water. Stir it one way until it thickens. Just before serving flavour it with four table- spoonfuls of maraschino and sweeten it to taste. Time, a quarter of an hour to thicken. Pro- bable cost, 2s., exclusive of the maraschino. Sufficient for a pint and a quarter of custard. Custard Baked in a Crust.—Line a pie-dish with a good crust, and put it in the oven until it is three-pai-ts cooked. Make a custard as in the last recipe, using milk in- stead of cream, but do not put quite so large a proportion of milk, to insure its being quite stiff. Bake it gently, and when the custard is set it is done enough. Keep it in a cool place. Turn out before serving. Time, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, Is., for a moderate- sized dish, large enough for four or five persons. Custard, Boiled.—Simmer in a well- 3ned saucepan a pint each of milk and cream with a laurel-leaf, and the thin rind of half a lemon. Straia the liquid for half an hour, and put it on again with three ounces of sugar Beat well the yolks of six eggs, and add them ^aduaUy to the milk, stirring it carefully and steadily until it thickens. It must not boil, or It will curdle Pour it into a large jug, and add a glass of brandy, still stirring it imtil it has cooled a Httle. FiU cups and serve. Pro- bable cost, 28. 4d., without brandy. T.,-.?^'^**^^?'^'l^?.^ (cheap).-Simmer three pints of milk for half an hour in a weU-Hned saucepan with lemon or cinnamon to flavour the hquid Strain it and add a table-spoonful of pound nee or arrowroot smoothly mixed in half a wine-glassful of cold milk. Beat un the yolks of three eggs and add them, with three ounces of sugar, to the rest. Stir the custard gently and steadily tiU it thickens, but do not boU It or it wiU curdle. This is a good custard for puddings. Probable cost, lid If served m cups, sufficient for twelve. Custard Cherry .-Make a rich custard (ss. Custard a la Reine). Put six or eight macaroons at the bottom of a glass dish, and over these lay a cupful of cherries which have been used for making cherry-brandy, with their juice. When the macaroons have ab- sorbed the juice, pour the custard over them, and garnish the dish with macaroons and cherries. Time, one hour. Probable cost, 2s. 6d., exclusive of the cherry-brandy. Suffi- cient for a good-sized dish. Custard, Common.—Put a pint of milk into a clean saucepan, with a piece of thin lemon-rind or half an inch of stick cinnamon. Let it simmer gently for a quarter of an hour, till it is pleasantly flavoured. Mix a tea- spoonful of arrowroot, ground rice, or flour very smoothly with three table-spoonfuls of cold milk. Add the yolk of an egg well beaten, and strain the hot milk upon them. Place it on the fire for a few minutes to thicken, stirring it aU the time. A dessert-spoonful of brandy is an improvement. Probable cost, 4d. Suffi- cient for a pint of custard. Custard, Excellent.—Put a pint of new milk, and half a pint of good cream into a saucepan, with a bay-leaf, the thin rind of a lemon, and two table-spoonfuls of sifted sugar. Simmer the liquid gently for twenty minutes. Then strain it, and add to it gradually tha well-beaten yolks of five eggs. Pour the mixture from one jug to another for a minute or two. Then place it in one of the jugs in a saucepan of wj rm water. Put this on the fire, and stir the custard until it thickens. Pour it out ; add a wine-glassful of brandy, and con- tinue stirring until the custard is cold. Serve in glasses, and put a ratafia on the top of each custard. Time, altogether, thiee-quarters of an hour. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Sufficient for nearly a quart of custard. Custard, Lemon, without Milk or Cream.—Put three ounces of loaf sugar, tha thin rind and strained juice of two lemons, and a pint of hot water into a basin. Let it stand for three-quarters of an hour, or until the fiavour of the lemon-rind is extracted. Thoroughly beat the yolks of four eggs. Mix them with the water, first straining it, and put it on the fire to thicken for ten minutes. It must not boil. Serve in custard-glasses. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for a pint of custard. Custard Marrow.—The custard marrow is a species of vegetable marrow, short and round, considered by many superior to ordinary marrows for delicacy of flavour. It may be boiled in the usual way or prepared as follows: Cut the marrow into slices about an inch in thickness, and score them on one side about half through. Cut a slice of fat bacon ijito dice, and put it into a stewpan with a dessert- spoonful of finely chopped mushrooms, the same of minced parsley, a small onion cut into small pieces, and a little pepper and salt. Fry these for a few minutes. Turn them on a hot dish. Lay on them the sliced marrow, the scored sides downwards, and pour over them a little olive-oil. Put the dish into a hot oven, and when the marrow is sufficiently baked serve it as hot as possible. Time, about haU an hour to bake. Probable cost, Id. each- Allow one for each person.CITS (178) CUT Custard Mould.—IVTako a rich custard (.w Custuvd a la Koine). When it has been thickmied, and nearly oold, mix with it half an oiini'o of isinglass dissolved in a little hot milk. Whip it well for ton minutes, then pour into an oiled mould, or into five or six smaller moulds, and send it to table, with dissolved red currant jolly poured over it. Time, twelve hours to stiffen. Probable cost, 'is. Gd. Sulli- cient for six or oiglit persons. Custard Pudding, Baked.—Take as many eggs as will when level cover the bottom of tho dish in which you intend to bako the custard. Break each one into a separate cup before it is mixed with the rest, to insure the quality of the eggs. Beat them a minute or two, but not too much, or the custard will be watery. Fill the dish with milk, sweeten liberally, and add a pinch of salt. Flavour with brandy, lemon, almond, vanilla, rose-water, orange-water, or any other flavour- ing. Stir all together. Grate a little nutmeg on the top, and bake in a moderate oven. As soon as the custard is set it is done enough. Time to bake about half an hour. Probable cost, 9d., for a moderate-sized dish. Sufficient for four or five persons. Custard Pudding, Boiled. — Make a pint of custard with half a pint of milk and three eggs. Flavour and sweeten it liberally, or the pudding will be insipid. Put ^t into a buttered basin which it will quite fill, cover it with a piece of buttered paper, and tie it in a floured cloth, then steam it gently until done. Keep moving it about in the saucepan for the first few minutes, that it may be well mixed. It must not cease boUing after it is once put in. Serve with wine sauce or a little jam. A large pudding may be made with very little more expense by adding another egg, another half-pint of milk, and a table-spoonful of flour. Time, forty minutes to steam. Suffi- cient for four persons. Probable cost, 6d. Custard Sauce for Sweet Puddings. —Mix a pint of milk, sweetened and flavoured, with two eggs slightly beaten. Put this into a saucepan and stir it gently till it thickens, but it must not boil. Serve it in a tureen or a glass dish, and, just before serving, add a little sugar and a table-spoonful of brandy, and grate a little nutmeg over the top. This sauce is good with fruit tarts as well as sweet puddings. Time, about ten minutes to thicken. Sufficient for a moderate-sized pudding. Probable cost, 4d., exclusive of the brandy. Custard Tartlets.—Line some patty pans with a good crust. Make a custard {see Custard, Baked), flavour it nicely, and three-parts fill the pans with the custard. Bake the tartlets in a gentle oven. Take them out, let them cool, and spread a little sugar icing over them. This is made by mixing the whites of two eggs with two ounces of pounded loaf sugar. Strew a little more sugar on tho top, and bako them in a gentle oven until the icing is crisp. If a richer tartlet is wanted, a little jam may be put under the custard. Time, about a quarter of an hour to bake the tartlets, five or six minutes to harden tho icing. Probable cost, 2d. each. Allow one for each person. Custard and Syrup.—A pretty and inexpensive disli for a Children's Party.—Make some good custard, and mix it with a Utile isinglass {see Custard Mould. Tlie custard need not bo so rich as tlie one there given.) Oil some small cups of various sizes, fill them with the custard, and when cold and fina turn them out on a glass dish, putting the large ones in the middle and the smaller ones round them. Din- solve a little red currant, raspberry, or goose- berry jelly with a little wine, or make a little syrup of sugar and water, flavour it with lemon, and colour it with cochineal. When nearly cold, pour this over and amongst the custards. Lay round the inside of the dish a necklace of ratafias reposing on the outer edge of the syrup. Serve each child with a whole custard, a spoon- ful of syrup, and a couple of ratafias. Time, twelve hours to stift'en. Probable cost, 28. 6d. Sufficient for a good-sized dish. Custard-without Eggs.—Mix one large table-spoonful of ground rice or com flour with a little cold nulk. Flavour a pint of milk with any flavouring that may be preferred, sweeten it, and pour it boUing over the rice, stirring it all the time to prevent its getting into lumps. Return it to the saucepan, and boil it two or three minutes. "When cold, it may be used instead of custard for fruit tarts or stewed fruit. Time, throe minutes to boil. Probable cost, 3d. Sufficient for one pint. Cutcharee Sauce, to serve with Kebobbed Meat. — Wash a quarter of a pound of split peas, and "boil them in a quart of water imtil quite soft. Pour off the water, and mash the peas, and mix with them one pound of boiled rice. Mince two onions very finely. Fry the onions in an ounce and a half of bucter until lightly browned, stir them with the rico and peas, season them with a dozen pounded carda- mom seeds, six pounded cloves, half a tea-spoon- ful of powdered mace, half a tea-spoonful of pepper, and a tea-spoonful of salt. Put a quart of good veal stock into a saucepan, add the rice, peas, and onions, and stew the whole gently until the rice is quite soft. Stir in three ounces of oiled butter before serving. Time, between two and three hours to boil the peas; forty minutes to stew the rice. Probable cost. Is. 4d. Sufficient for five or six persona. Cutcharee (another way). — Boil one pound of rice as if for curry. When it is done enough, mix with it three table-spoonfuls of split peas which have been soaked and boiled till tender and pressed through a sieve. Put a piece of butter the size of a large egg into a saucepan, and, when hot, hy two large sliced onions in it. Mix these with the rice and peas, and add a good seasoning of salt, cayenne, pounded mace, and black popper, with sufficient stock to moisten the whole, and stir the mixture over the fire till it is heated throughout. Serve it as hot as possible, with a little butter sauce. Time, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for five or six persons. Cutlet Bat.—A cutlet bat is used to flatten cutlets 80 that they can be evenly and smoothij"CUT CUT ( 179) covered with egg and bread-crumbs or frying batter. The cutlets should be trimmed evenly, CCILET BAT. and then atruck sharply on both sides with the flat side of the bat, when they will be ready for the batter. Probable cost, 58. 6d. each. Cutlets (a ritalienne).—Cut two pounds of the fillet of veal in slices about three-quarters of an inch thick. Shape them into round cutlets three inches in diameter, flour them well, and fry them in hot butter until done enough. When they are browned the pan should be held high above the fire, and eovered so that the cutlets may become sufiiciently cooked without being dry. Serve them on macaroni, which has been stewed until tender, and send brown gravy to table in a tureen. The gravy should be well flavoured with fresh tomatoes, when seasonable. At other times tomato sauce may be used. Time, a quarter of an horn* to fry the cutlets. Probable cost, Is. 2d. per pound. Sufficient for four or five persons. Cutlets (a la Maintenon).—Cutlets were, it is said, first served in this way under the direction of Madame de Maintenon, to tempt the failing appetite of Louis XIV. Ac- cording to the original recipe they should be dressed en papillote, but as this is a difficult operation, and the paper is almost sure to look untidy and greasy, it would be better for ordi- nary purposes to make a little writing-paper hot, and -svrap the cutlet in it after it is broiled. Cut and trim some cutlets. Shape them neatly, and flatten them, then dip each one in beaten egg, and afterwards in bread-crumbs mixed with chopped parsley, savoury herbs, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Melt some butter in a frying-pan, cook them quickly in it, turn them that they may be equally cooked through- out, and just before serving t^vist some hot writing paper round each. Send stewed mush- rooms to table with them, or a puree of sorrel, spinach, or green peas, in the middle. Time, eight minutes to fiy the cutlets. Allow one for each. Probable cost. Is. Cutlets (a la Venitienne). — Chop sepa- rately half a pint of mushrooms, two shallots, a little parsley, and a sprig of thyme. Mix them thoroughly and stew them for ten minutes over a small fire in a little butter, with a slice of fat bacon cut into dice. Sprinkle a little salt and pepper over two pounds of veal cutlets, put them into the saucepan, and cook them gently till quite tender. Add a large spoonful of sauce toimiee. Draw the saucepan from the fire for a minute or two, then thicken the sauce with the well-beaten yolks of three eggs mixed with a little cream. The sauce must not boil after the eggs are added. Before serving, squeeze in the juice of a lemon. Time, one hour. Probable cost. Is. 2d. per pound. Sufficient for four or five porsoofl* Cutlets (au Jambon).—Outlets an jambon are cooked in the same way as Cutlets a la Chingara {see Cutlets, Veal, a la Chingara), with the exception of ham being substituted for the tongue. Cutlets of Lobster or Crab.—Mince very finely and pound in a mortar the flesh of a small hen lobster or a crab, and season it with salt and cayenne, whilst it is being pounded. Put one ounce of butter into a saucepan, and dredge very slowly into it one table-spoonful of flour; when smooth add a gill of water. Stir till the sauce boils, then add a little cream, a tea-spoonful of lobster butter {see Lobster Butter) and the pounded fish. Stir the mixture over the fire till it is quite hot, then take it put , in a table-spoon, and lay it on a large dish.^ When quite cold, make it up in the shape of mutton cutlets, brush these over with beaten egg, strew finely-grated bread-criimbs over them, and fry them in boiling lard or dripping till lightly browned. Stick a little bit of claw into each cutlet, and garnish the dish with parsley. If oysters are used, a bit of stick may be used instead of the claw. Time to fry, two or thi-ee minutes. Probable cost, one large lobster, Is. 6d. to 2s. 6d. Sufficient for a large dish. Cutlets, Lamb (a la Dauphine).—Cut two poimds of cutlets from the best end of the neck, shape them neatly, trim off the fat and skin, and leave about an inch of bone bare. Put a quarter of a pound of butter into a stew- pan. Let it get quite hot, then fry the cutlets in it for a few minutes, but do not let the butter brown. Drain them, and let the butter cool; mix with it the yolks of three eggs. Pass the cut- lets through it until they are thickly covered. Strew bread-crumbs over them, and fiy them once more. Dish them in a circle, with a puree of green peas in the middle of the dish. Time, half an hour. Probable cost, Is. per poutnd. Sufficient for four or five persons. Cutlets, Sauce for.—Put an ounce of butter into a saucepan, place it over a slow fire, and mix very gradually with it an ounce of fine flour. Let it brown slightly, then add enough boiling water to make it as thick as cream, season with salt and cayenne, and vary the flavour by the addition of finely-chopped gherkins, mushroom or walnut pickle, fresh to- matoes, or tomato sauce, a minced shallot, and a glass of red wine, &c. &c. Time, a few minutes. Sufficient, a quarter of a pint of sauce for one pound of cutlets. Cutlets, Veal (a la Chingara).—Take two pounds of the best part of a fillet of veal. Cut it in neat slices not less than an. inch thick, and shape these neatly in rounds the size of the top of a tea-cup. Have a piece of cold boiled tongue for each cutlet, as nearly as possible the same size and shape. Put the trimmings of the cutlets, a little piece of rasped ham, a carrot, a large onion, a bunch of savoury herbs, and a sprig of pars- ley, into a saucepan with a pint of good veal stock. Let them simmer gently for an hour or more. Strain the Uquid, and put it on one side for use. Flour the cutlets, and frj'them in hot butter tiU they are sufficiently cooked, but not( 180 ) ■DATS. dned; plenty of butter or. lard should be used, and whisii thoy are brown on both eidoB they sliould bo hold high above tho fire for a few minutes, and covered. By this moans thoy will be done through. Drain thom from tlio fat, and keep thom hot. Put one oun^e of butter into a stewpan, dredge over it very gradually one oimce of ilour, and keep stirring till it browns, but it must not bum. Mix with it tho strainod gravy, and any trimmings thoro may be of the tongue, finely minced. Warm the round pieces of tongue in this, and put one on each veal cutlet. Serve the cutlets in a cir- cular fonii, add salt and popper to the sauce, if necessary, and put it in the middle. Serve as hot as possible. Time, about a quarter of an hour to fry the cutlets. Sufficient for four or five persons. Probable cost. Is. per pound. Cygnet, To Roast.—Truss this bird in tho same way as a goose. Make a stuffing of three pounds of beef, fat and lean together, chop it small with thi-ee boiled onions, a quarter of a pound of butter, a table-spoonful of salt, a tea- spoonful of pepper, and a whole nutmeg grated. Pound it smoothly in a mortar, stuff the cygnet, and sew it up securely, to prevent the gravy escaping. It is generally cooked in the same way as haunch of venison, with a thick crust over it, but this is unnecessary. The gravy may be kept by covering it with paper from the outset, heating it gradually through, basting it patiently and thoroughly, and when it is nearly finished removing the paper, and bring- ing it near the fire to brown. Send it to table with a sauce made of equal quantities of strong beef gravy and port wine. Red currant jelly, hot and cold, should also be served with it. Cygnets should be roasted at or before Christ- mas, after which time they decidedly deteriorate in quality. They make a very handsome and delicious dish. Time to roast, from two to three hours. Probable cost, uncertain, the birds not being often offered for sale. Sufficient for eight or nine persons D Dabs —The dab is a small but excellent THE DAB. fish, caught mostly in rivers near the sea. The Thames furnishes a particularly good kind, which when fried or dressed in a buttered paper are very delicate. They are at their best during the latter i)ai-t of autumn. If soaked in Halt and water before being cooked they will be much improved in flavour, and the muddy taste got rid of. Send to table with a cut lemon. Dace.—This fish, like many of its class, scarcely reimys the trouble of cooking. It is best fried or broiled, and when »ea«onable, which it is from MidHummor to nearly the end of the year, is much enjoyed by those who angle for amusement's sake. It should be served with a sauce made of a little lemon juice and Cayenne pepper. THE DACE. Dagmar Fritters.—Make a batter of the consistency of cream with half a pound of flour, a little salt, and five weU-beaten eggs. Beat it for some minutes and add a little DMlk, powdered sugar, a tea-spoonful each of grated lemon-peel and powdered cinnamon; then beat again and throw in an ounce and a half of candied citron cut into small pieces. Put a piece of butter into a stewpan, pour in the batter as soon as it is dissolved, and cook slowly, taking care not to let it stick to the pan. When it becomes solid and in some degree baked, take it out and place it on a dish ; put more lard or butter into the stewpan, cut the paste into strips about a finger's length, giving it a slit at each end to make it rise, which it will do very quickly, and lay them in the boiling fat. When done, serve on a napkin, or with a layer of sifted sugar. Time, twenty minutes. Dame Jane's Pudding.—Beat the yolks of eight eggs and the whites of five with a quarter of a pound of powdered white sugar. Melt four oimces of butter—by standing the basin in hot water—with half a pint of cream. When cool stir in four ounces of flour, beat tiU smooth, and add a Uttle more cream and the beaten eggs. Beat all well together, and bake in buttered cups. A few well-washed currants may be laid in the bottoms of the cups if desired. Time, twenty minutes to bake. Pro- bable cost, 28. 8d. Sufficient for ten or twelve puddings. Damkorf Pudding.—Stick raisins inside a mould or basin, making any pattern with them that fancy may dictate (the basin must be thoroughly well buttered ana then floured, or the raisins will not adhere). Sprinkle finely- prepared crumbs from a French roll over the raisins, and then place thinly sliced citron uni- formly with the fruit. Pour a glass of brandy slowly over all, and another of sherry; do thisDAM DAM ( 181 ) gently that the arrangement of fruit, &c., may not bo disturbed. Add four well-beaten eggs and a pint of milk sweetened to taste, and let the basin remaia unmoved for an hour, then tie down securely with a cloth and boil one hour. Probable cost, without spirits or wine, Is. Sufficient for tiu-ee or four persons. Damson Cheese. — Put some sound, freshly-gathered damsons into an earthenware jar, cover it closely, and place it in a pan of cold water on the fire. Let it boil, and keep adding the water as it wastes away until the fruit is quite tender. Then, whilst they are still waiTH, remove the damsons, skin and stone them, and press them through a coarse sieve into the juice in the jar. Put half a pound of loaf sugar, broken into small pieces, to every pound of pulp, and boil all together quickly to a stiff paste. A few of the kernels may be blanched and left in, and these will much improve the flavour. The sugared fruit should be boiled until it sticks to the spoon in a mass, and leaves the pan quite dry; and if, when lightly touched, it leaves the fingers, you may know that it will keep well. Put it quickly into plates or shallow moulds; lay brandied or oiled papers over it, and cover the jars closely. Keep in a dry place. Before being served, it may be cut into shapes. Damson cheese is usually served at dessert. Time, two or three hours to draw out the juice ; about two hours to boil the sugar and fruit together. Probable cost, 9d. or lOd. a four oimce jar. Sufficient, one pound of damsons for a small jar. Damson Cheese (another way).—Select ripe, sound fruit. Put the damsons into a large stone jar, and allow a quarter of a pound of sugar to every quart of fruit. Set the jar up to its neck in a vessel of boiling water, or place it in a very cool oven till the fruit is tender ; then remove the stones with a fork, and boil all together in a preserving-pan till it is a thick piilp. Add half a pound of pounded loaf sugar to each poimd of fruit, and boil it again until it leaves the pan quite dry, and is a thick mass. Be careful to stir always or it will bum. Put it into moulds with a brandied paper over the top. Tie down, and store in a dry place. Time, two hours and a half to boil. Probable cost, 8d. to lOd. per small pot. Sufficient, one pint for a very small pot. Dainson Cheese (another way).—Place the fruit unskinned in a stone jar in a saucepan of water. Set the pan over the fire, and allow it to boil until the fruit appears dry; take out the stones, pour ofE some of the liquid, and to every two pounds of fruit add haK a pound of sugar; stir it well, and allow.it to simmer slowly for two hours, after which, boil it quickly for half an hour. The jam may then be poured into pots, and covered so as totally to exclude the air. Damson Drops.—Pick the stalks from flome damsons, wipe them and put them into a modorately-hcated oven to bake, but do not let them burst. When sufficiently done take oflE the skin and remove the stone ; add some cnished lump sugar to the pulp, and mix until it- is a Btifi paste. Drop the mixture upon paper in small quantities of uniform size, and put them into a moderately-heated oven to dry. When sufficiently dry, take them out and turn them down over a sieve, when, by damping the paper, the drops will fall on the sieve, and must be again hardened in a cool oven. Store them in a box with paper between each layer. They will keep a long time in this way if the air be excluded from them. Damson Jam (Bullace or Common Plum). —All fruits to be preserved should be gathered after two successive dry days, if possible. Get damsons quite ripe and freshly gathered; boil them forty minutes without sugar, then simmer and skim fifteen minutes with three-quarters of a pound of good sugar to each pound of damsons. Common sugar is thought by some persons to be good enough for dark-coloured preserves, but they are not the most economical, as will be shown by the quantity of scum which, rises to the surface. Put into pots and cover with egged paper, which readily sticks to the pots and excludes the air. A paper dipped in brandy may be laid on the top of the jam, but it is not necessary. Store in a dry place. Pro- bable cost, 6d. to 8d. per pound pot. Damson Jam (another way). — The broken damsons, of which there must always be a quantity in a large gathering, will make an excellent jam (reject poor ones). Put six pounds of damsons without stones, or the stones may be removed after, into a pre- serving-pan with one pint of water, boil till the pulp may be rubbed through a sieve, and to every poimd of pulp allow one pound of sugar. The sugar must first be boiled to a eyrup, and then added to the pulp. Stir the jam, and, when sufficiently boiled, test it on a plate, and store in a dry place with brandied or oiled paper, and an outside covering of tissue-paper egged down. Allow one hour for boiling. Damson Jelly.—Take the required quan- tity of fine ripe damsons and one-third of the quantity of bullaces. Separate the stalks from the fruit, put them into a large stone jar, first cutting them with a knife as they are put in. Tie down with paper, and place the jar in a moderate oven over night. When the juice is poured ofE, strain, weigh, and boil it quickly for twenty-five minutes without sugar; then add ten ounces of sugar to each pound of juice, and boil and skim imtU the jelly wiU set. During the whole time of boiling the jelly should be stirred. Damson Pudding.—Shred up very finely four ounces of good beef suet, and rub it well into half a poimd of flour. Use as much water as win make a smooth firm paste, then line a well-buttered basin, and cut a cover for the top. FiU with the damsons, and sweeten to taste. Tie a floured cloth firmly over the top, and boil steadily two and a half to three hours. A mix- ture of apples and damsons do well together. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Damson, Solid.—Skin, core, and quarter one pound and a quarter of good boiling apples, put them into a preser\Tng-pan with one pound of damson juice (extracted from the fi'uit byDAN ( 182) Dam Jjlivcing thorn in a cool ovon at night, or set- ting thoni in a jar in hot water), boil them both togother for half an hour, then add three-quar- ters of a pound of good pounded sugar, and after tho sugar has dissolved boil for another ten minutes. If the apples are good, and tho recipe carefully attended to, small moulds of this solid fruit will help to fill up successfully many vacancies on a supper-table. Damson Tart.—Line the edges of a tart- dish with a crust, pulf or short, according to liking, and pile the dish high with damsons, laying a small cup in the bottom to prevent tho juice running over; one pint and a half of diimsons will requii-e a quarter of a pound of fine moist sugar, and it should be equally placed amongst the fruit in the dish. If a short crust be made, send the dish to table with sifted sugar over tho top, but if puff pastry is used, brush it over with cold water and sprinkle white sugar upon it before putting it in the oven. Time, half to three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for five or six persons. Damson Wine.—Get sound ripe fruit, reject all that is stale and mouldy; pick off the stalks, and to four gallons of damsons add four gallons of boiling water. Let them soak four or five days, stirring them regu- larly every day with the hand. Add to every gallon of liquor three and a half pounds of good lump sugar, and when this is quite dis- solved, put the whole into a cask with one quart of spirits to every three gallons. Put it into a cask and let it remain twelve months, when it may be bottled for use. Damsons Baked for Keeping.—Fill some large stone jars with not over-ripo damsons —none of them must be crushed—and add to them half their weight in pounded sugar. Put the fruit and sugar in layers into the jars. Let the oven get cool, and place the jars, well covered over the top with small flat slate stones, into it. When they have baked from five to six hours they will be done, and should be re- moved at once to get cold. The top should be first covered with a round of white paper, then melted mutton suet to about one inch in thick- ness, and lastly, a piece of brown paper or bladder so secured as to exclude the air. If kept in a dry, well-ventilated room, damsons so pre- pared will keep good for three months. Damsons, Bottled.—Bullaces or damsons are valuable for winter use, and, bottled like green gooseberries, make good tarts. Put them into wide-necked glass bottles, tie the tops over with bladder, and set them in a boiler of cold water,with a little straw at the bottom. Bring the water to the boU, and then remove the boiler from the fire, but let the bottles remain to become cold. In a few hours, or better, the next day, remove the bladder, and replace it by tight-fitting corks, first filling the bottles with pounded sugar. The corks should be secured with wax. Damsons, Compote of.—Make a pint of syrup in the following manner:—Take eight ounces of loaf sugar and one pint of water; let it simmer on tho fire until the sugar has melted, thoa throw in the wliite of an egg, and take ofE the scum as it rises. When the syrup haa boiled fifteen minutes, drop into it, one by one, a quart of soimd damsons, and simmer until soft', comp6ts of damsons. without breaking them. Remove them from the syrup, and boil it again until rather thick, let it cool, and pour it over the damsons which should have been previously arranged in a glass dish. A glass of whipped cream is a nice accompaniment to this dish. Time to boil, syrup, fifteen minutes; damsons, about five minutes. Probable cost, without cream. Is. Sufficient for four or five persons. Damsons, Compote of (another way). This compote will require less sugar, because the fruit is of a less acid nature than some of the other varieties of plums. Allow four ounces of sugar to half a pint of water, boil the usual time, and simmer the fruit in the syrup ten or twelve minutes. The quantity of syrup is for one pound of damsons. Time, ten to fifteen minutes to stew the damsons. Damsons, Preserved. — Gather the damsons while the sun is on them, and when there has been no rain for twenty-foiu" hours at least. They should be quite ripe, whole, and without blemish. To each jar, containing one quart of fruit, allow half a pound of good loaf sugar, and sprinkle it equally in the jar among the fruit, then set it in a vessel of cold water over a moderate fire and simmer, after it has come to a boil, fifty .minutes, when the damsons will be soft, and must be allowed to get cold. Lose no time in completing the preserve. Untie the covers, and pour the juice into a pre- serving-pan, where it may boil fifteen minutes, and must then be strained over the fruit. Fasten down when cool, and store in a dry cool place. Damsons, Preserved (another way).— Prick the fruit, and place it in scalding water for about a minute, lift the fruit into a dry dish, and strew powdered sugar over it. Next day pour off the syrup, boil and skim it, pour it again over the fruit, and allow it to stand for a day or two. Boil the syrup once more, add it again to the fruit, and boil both together for a short time, taking care not to break the damsons. "SVhen ready, pour into jars, and when cold, add brandied papers, and close carefuUy. Half a pound of sugar is sufficient for each pound of friiit. Dandelion, Stewed.—The first mention of this dish would perhaps inspire most English people with aversion, but we can honestly ad- vise them to try it. It is an inexpensive dish, and easily ohtmned; for fresh growths after(183) DAN Bhowery weather may be had throughout aum- mer and winter. Gather an equal quantity of fresh dandelion and sorrel leaves. Pick oft' all the withered tips and hard paiis of the roots; shred them into tine strips, and wash them free from grit. Put the dandelion by itself into a copper stewpan, cover it with a small quantity of boiling water, and stew until nearly tender; add the sorrel, and simmer imtil the water has evapo- rated and the whole is soft. Mash with a wooden epoon; stir in a lump of butter ; flavour with pepper and salt, and serve like spinach. The dish may be garnished in a variety of ways, either with hard-boiled eggs, sippets of fried bread, or slices of boiled carrot cut into shapes. It is usually served with white meats, as veal, sweet- breads, &c.; but it is excellent as a garnish for poached eggs. Some persons cook this vegetable without soiTcl, but to our taste it is too bitter, and wants toning down. It is impossible to fix a price for the plant, as it is not a market article. It wlU, in all probability, be more often found on the tables of the rich than of the poor, not from its cost, but from its peculiar taste and flavour. Dandelion "Wine.—Grct four quarts of the yellow petals of the dandelion, and pour over them into a tub one gallon of warm water that has previously been boiled. Stir it well round, and cover with a blanket, to stand three days, during which time it should be stirred fre- quently. Strain off the flowers from the liquid, and boil it for half an hour, with the rind of a lemon, the rind of an orange, a little ginger, and three and a half pounds of lump sugar to each gallon; add the sugar and lemon, from which the rinds were removed, in slices to the boiling liquor, and when cool ferment with yeast on a toast. When it has stood a day or two put it into a cask, and in two months bottle. This wine is said to be specially adapted to all per- sons suffering from liver complaints. Darioles.—Butter the dariole moulds and line them with a thin paste made as follows :— Beat half a pound of butter to a cream ; stir into it very gradually one pound of flour, with which three ounces of tine sugar has been mixed, and the yolks of three and the whites of two eggs, beaten separately. "^Tien the moulds are lined, have ready a custard to fill them, composed of DARIOLK MOULDS. the following ingredients:—Eight well-beaten eggs, without the whites, six crushed maca- roons, two ounces of sugar, half a pint of cream, end half the grated rind of a small lemon. These should be stirred over the fire until the custard thickens, when it is cool the darioles may be filled and baked. They will take fifteen minutes in a quick oven; they should rise like a souflle, and be served at once ■with Buj^ar strewn- over, or they will fall. ' Probable cost, Is. 8d. Sufficient to fill twelve moulds. Darioles la Duchesse).—Proceed as be- fore directed. This recipe differs in allowing more time for baking, and requiring no boihng of custard. Mix half a pint of milk with two ounces of flour, three oimces of pounded sugar, six well-beaten eggs, and two ounces of butter into a batter, and put it at once into the moulds, first adding a little essence of vanilla, drop by drop, tmtil the mixture is flavoured. The es- sence of lemon, almonds, or cinnamon may be substituted for vanilla. The moulds should be only three-parts filled, and from twenty-five to thirty-five minutes allowed for baking. Pro- bable cost, Is. 8d. Sufficient for seven moulds. Dartmouth Pie.—Mince two pounds of mutton, from which all the fat has been cut away, and add to it one pound of finely-shred beef suet, one pound of well-washed currants, four ounces of sugar, and a little salt and nut- meg. Make a paste by boiling two ounces of butter with four ounces of beef suet, and work- ing it into eight ounces of flour. Cover the mixture with this paste, and bake for an hour and a half. Probable cost, 4s. 6d. Sufficient for seven or eight persons. Date Cake (for Dessert).—Insert in place of the stones, which should be carefully re- moved, blanched almonds. Line a square tin with rice-paper; fill in layers of dates, and press down with a weight. Turn out on a glass dish. Garnish with shces of orange. Probable cost, lOd. to Is. per pound. Delaville Pudding.—Take of candied peel, orange, citron, and lemon each one ounce, slice them very finely, and cover the bottom of a dish which should be lined with a rich puff paste. Put six ounces of good butter into a clean saucepan, and beat into it the same quan- tity of finely-sifted sugar, stir it over a slow fiLre, adding gradually the yolks of four well- beaten eggs. When ready to boil, pour the mixture into the pie-dish over the candied peel, and bake slowly. Time, three-quarters of an hour to bake. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for thi-ee or four persons. Delaware Pudding.—Make a good suet crust in the proportion of one pound of flour to half a pound of suet. Prepare four large apples, take out the cores, and divide them into slices; put these into a lined saucepan with two large table-spoonfuls of sugar, i tea-spoon- ful of minced lemon-peel, and a little grated nutmeg. Wlien slightly pulped, roll out the paste thin, cover it to within an inch of the margin with the apples, and strew some currants on it, then roU up the pudding in a floured cloth, securing the ends properly, and boil for about two hours. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for four or five persons. Deptford Pudding.—Beat the yolks of five eggs and the whites of three in separate basins. Put a quart of new milk into a well- lined saucepan, and stir into it, as soon as it boils, six oimces of bread-crumbs, and the rind of a lemon grated. Sweeten to taste, and add to it six ounces of meltf d butter and the eggBEB (18* ) DEV mixture, yolks and whites. Have ready a pio- dish, lino it with puff paste, and put some marmalado at the bottom. Bake in a moderate oven. Time, one hour to bake. Probable cost. Is. tid., without marmalade. Sufficient for eight persons. Derwentwater Cakes. — Divide four eggs, boat up the yolks and whisk the whites to a froth. Rub half a pound of good fresh butter into one pound of floui", add half a pound of well-washed currants, and the same quantity of powdered sugar. Mix the flour witli the eggs to a stiff paste, lloll and cut into small round cakes. Bake in a slow oven for fifteen minutes. Probable cost, Is. 8d. Sufficient for one dozen or more cakes. Dessert Biscuits.—Whip half a pound of good fresh butter to a cream. If the weather be cold, place it beside the fire before com- mencing operations, but it should not oil. Stir in gradually one pound of flour and half a pound of sugar, then add the flavouring of lemon, ratafia, cinnamon, &c., and lastly, mix all together with the beaten yolks of half a dozen eggs. Butter a paper and lay it over a cake tin, drop some of the mixture on it at equal distances, so separating the biscuits that they may have space to spread, which they wiU do as soon as they get warm. See that the oven is no ; too hot, and that they do not get highly coloured. Time, twelve to eighteen minutes. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Dessert Cakes.—Beat a quarter of a pound of butter to a cream, and add to it gra- dually an .3qual weight of finely-sifted sugar, and the same of ground rice, and as much baking powder as would cover a sixpence. Iilix thoroughly, then stir in three well-beaten eggs. Pour into well-oiled tins, and bake in a good oven. Time to bake, ten minutes. Sufficient for one dozen cakes. Probable cost, 8d. Dessert Ic& Currants.—To the beaten whites of two eggs add a quarter of a pint of clear spring water, and mix them thoroughly toge- ther. Select some fine bunches cf currants, red and white. Immerse each bunch separately in the mixtmv, and let them drip a minute, then roll them carefully in a quantity of finely- sifted sugar ; let the rolling be repeated. Lay them with a space between each bunch on paper to dry and become crystallised. Devil, Dry.—Score the drumstick, giz- zard, or any other part of tui-key, fowl, veal, or mutton kidney. Rub the meat to be devilled with pepper and salt, put a thick coating of made mustard over this, with as much cayenne as liked. Broil over a clear fire. Devil Gravy.—Take three table-spoonfuls of melted butter, and the same of good gravy; add to it a dessert-spoonful of cayenne pepper, one of pounded loaf sugar, a glass of ketchup, and the same of white wine, with the juice of a lemon. Make aU warm together, then pour it over the devilled turkey, goose, or fowl. Devil, Wet.—Score the leg of a roasted turkey, and fill up the cuts with a seasoning of muitard, p'^pper, and sal,: tJion broil over a clear fire, and pour the following sauce, made hot, over it when sent to table. To three table- spoonfuls of gravy and one of melted butter, add a tea-spoonful each of Harvey's sauce, mushroom ketchup, Chilli vinegar, and mustard^ a largo wine-glassful of port, a table-spoonful of loinon-juico, and a little cayenne and black popper. More seasoning may be added, but this will be best regulated by the taste of the con- sumer. Devilled Biscuit.—Make a seasoning of cayenne, anchovy paste, salt, and curry powder; butter some captain's biscuits, lay the mixture over and grill, or make a paste of cheese, mus- tard, and salt, and spread over when toasted. Butter unsparingly. Time, from five to ten minutes. Probable cost, Id. per biscuit. Devizes Pie.—Take thin slices from a calf's head when cold, and some of the brains, pieces of cold lamb, pickled tongue, a few sUcea of bacon, and some hard-boiled eggs cut neatly into rings ; with these fill a pie-dish. Season with pepper, salt, cayenne, and spice; arrange the meat in layers ; see that all is well-seasoned, and fill up the dish with a rich gravy. Bake in a slow oven, with a cover of flour and water paste, and remove when cold. The pie must then be turned out on a dish. Garnish with parsley and pickled eggs sliced. Time to bake, one hour. Devon Cakes.—Rub half a pound of good fresh butter into one pound of flour, beat up an egg and mix it with half a pint of milk, and sweeten the milk with a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar. Mix the flour and milk together into a paste, and roll it out thin to be cut into any shapes liked. Bake on tin plates in a quick oven,'with grated loaf sugar over for ten minutes, Probable cost for this quantity. Is. 4d. Devonian Pudding. — Put a pint of milk into a saucepan, and stir into it gradually two table-spoonfuls of fine flo\u: untU it boils. When it thickens slightly, pour it into a basin to cool. Mix in a separate dish the whites of two eggs and the yolks of four well beaten, the rind of a smaU lemon grated, eight ounces of sugar, and three ounces' of butter previously beaten to a cream. Blend this thoroughlj' -with the mixture of milk and flour. Pour into a well-buttered pie-dish, round which has been placed an edging of puff paste, and bake in a quick oven for twenty-five minutes. When ready, dust pounded sugar over it, and serve hot. It may also be used cold. Probable cost. Is. Devonshire Brandy Pudding.—Take the remains of a cold plmn pudding, cut it into long strips half an inch thick, and steep them in brandy or rum for a few minutes. Fill a buttered mould, crossing them neatly and uniformly one over the other. Prepare a cus- tard of five eggs, a pint of milk, and a flavour- ing of lemon and nutmeg; pour as much of tliis into the mould as will quite fiU it, and send the remainder to table poured over the pudding. A floiu-ed cloth must be tied over the mould and it should be kept boiling for one hour. Suffir.ient for four or five persons.DEV ( 186 ) DOB Devonshire Buns.—rropare a quantity of tiour iis directed in the recipes for buns, but instead of milk use Devonshire cream, which if too thick, should be diluted with warm water or milk, caro being taken that the dough fer- ments in the usual way. If in doubt, prepare the dough first, and add cream as you would butter, and bake in the ordinary way. Time, fifteen to twenty minutes to bake. Probable cost, Id. each. Sufficient for eighteen buns. Devonshire Cake.—Pnt four pounds of flour into an eiirthenwaro pan, and rub well into it one pound of clotted cream or butter beaten to a cream. Add three-quarters of a pound of moist sugar, one pound of currants, a quarter of a pound of lemon-peel cut small, and a little nutmeg. Beat up two eggs, and add them to the mixture, with a pint of milk, half a drachm of suifron steeped in boiling water, and a quarter of a pint of fresh yeast. The milk should be only moderately warm; if too hot the cake will be heavy. Mix all together, and cover till next morning, when it will be ready to put into tins containing about a pound and a half. Bake in a quick oven for an houi* and a half. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. Sufficient to make six cakes. Devonshire Clotted Cream.—; The highly esteemed clotted cream of Devonshire is procured by straining the milk, as it comes fresh from the cow, into large metal pans, which are placed in a cool dairy, and kept unmoved for twenty-four houi's in winter and half that time in summer. It is then scalded over a charcoal fire, the time for scalding depending on the heat of the fire and the quantity of milk to be scalded; the slower it is done, the better and the thicker will he the cream. It is skimmed the following day. A great quantity of this cream is sent to the London market, where it fetches a high price. Devonshire Junket.—Mix half a tea- spoonful of powdered cinnamon with a heaped table-spoonful of pounded sugar. Pour over these a wine-glassful of brandy, and stir until the sugar is dissolved. Add one quart of quite new nulk with a dessert-spoonful of rennet. If the milk cannot be procured fresh from the cow, heat it until it is new-milk warm. Stir it well, and let it remain until it is set, then spread some clotted cream on the top, and strew sifted sugar over. Time, about two hours to set the milk. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of the brandy and cream. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Devonshire Squab Pie.—Take two pounds of chops from a neck of mutton. Cut them short, and pare away some of the fat. Peel, core, and slice about two pounds of well- flavoured sour apples. Put a layer of them in the bottom of a pie-dish with a little sugar, and a sprinkling of ground allspice. Place the chops next, and season with salt, pepper, and finely- chopped onion. Continue with alternate layers of apples and meat till all be used up. Make an ordinary meat crust, line the edges of the dish, and cover over the top, adding a quarter of a pint of gravy or water. Bake in a moderate oven one hour and a half. Pro- bable cost, 2s. 2d. Sufficient for six or seven |;>er8on8. Devonshire Syllabub.—In the country where milk is to be had pure and direct from its source, syllabubs are to be seen on every table varied with the delicious far-famed Devonshire junket. The quantity of wine in- tended to bo used for the syllabub is firet put into a large China bowl with sugar to taste. It is then milked on till the bowl is full, and afterwards when cold, it is covered with clotted cream. A little grated nutmeg, or ; pounded cinnamon (or both may be used) is > sprinkled over the top when served. A pint of . port and one of sherry will make a large and ' excellent syllabub. I Devonshire White - Pot.—This is a very wholesome but old-fashioned preparation of milk and flour varied with the addition of eggs. The milk and flour are mixed to a batter, which is then put into an oven, or simply boiled, and eaten with sugar. A more modem white- pot is made as follows:—Beat eight eggs, and add them to one quart of cream, flavour with sugar and nutmeg, and pour the mixture on some slices of fine bread. Tie down the dish with a paper, first placing bits of butter on the top. Bake in a moderate oven for an hour or more. Dombey Pudding.—Grate off the rind of a lemon with a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, put it, with half a pint of cream, in an enamelled saucepan. When hot, stir in six table-spoon- fuls of bread-crumbs, one of flour, three of finely-chopped beef suet, and one of marrow. Stir and boil the mixture for ten minutes. Throw it out into a basin to cool. Take two ounces of currants, one of sultanas, and two ounces of stoned muscatel raisins, mince the latter with two ounces of candied orange-peel, and mix all together with four well-beaten eggs, adding graduaUj' a wine-glassful of orange- wine, one of rum, and a little nutmeg. Stir for fifteen minutes; the pudding should then be turned into a well-oiled mould, previously de- corated according to fancy with raisins, currants, and peel, and either boiled quickly three hours, or baked in a moderate oven for two hours. Send to table with the following sauce poured over it:—Three ounces of loaf sugar, and the juice of two oranges boiled until thick, with half a wine-glassful of rum added afterwards. Pro- bable cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for eight persons. Dory or Caper Sauce.—Blend two ounces of butter with one table-spoonful of flour, and stir it into a saucepan containing the third part of a pint of boiHng water, add equal quantities of shrimps and capers pounded, about two dessert-spoonfuls of each, and boil for some minutes; then remove the sauce- pan from the fire, and stir in till dissolved an ounce more of butter, and two tea-spoonfuls of whole capers. Serve in a tureen. Dory, Boiled.—Cut off the fins, and lay the fish in a kettle of cold water, salted in the proportion of three ounces of salt to one gallon of water. Let the water cover the fish, bring it to a boil gradually, and simmer till done. Be care- ful not to break the skin. This unsightly, but very excellent fish, is a near approach to the turbot in the delicacy and firmness of the flesh. It is boiled and served in the same maimer as( 186) DUO DOIT turhot, with lobstor, anchovy, or Bhrimp sauco, and plain incited Inittor. Kervo on ii napkin THE DOBT. neatly rolled round the edge. Time, twenty to twenty-five minutes, according to size, after the water boils. Dough. Nuts, American.—Into a pound of Horn- rub a piece of butter the size of an egg. Add a little pounded allspice, and two table-spoonfuls of sugar. Mix a table-spoonful of yeast with four eggs, and a little lukewarm milk. Work all well together, and put the mix- ture in a warm place to rise. Then roll it out about half an inch thick, cut into pretty shapes, and fry in boiling oil or lard until the nuts are a golden brown. Drain on a moistened sieve, strew sifted sugar over the nuts, and keep them in a dry place. Time to fry, five to ten minutes. Probable cost, 8d. per pound. Dough Nuts, American (and Nor- wegian).—Rub fom- ounces of butter into three pounds of fine flour; add one pound of sugar, a tea-spoonful of powdered cinnamon, and a whole nutmeg, grated. Whisk four eggs, and mix them gradually with a gill of yeast and as much of a pint of new milk, flavoured with rose- water, as will make the flour into a soft dough. Cover It up warm to rise, and when sufiBoiently risen make it into balls, or into any form Hked, and drop them into a saucepan of boiling lard. When of a fine brown colour they are done, and should be laid before the fire on a sieve to dry. It sometimes happens that the nuts are insuffi- ciently cooked in the middle. To insure their being done thoroughly, drop them into the lard as soon as it boils. Time to boil, five or six minutes. Probable cost for the above ingre- dients, 28. 6d. to 3s. Dover Biscuits.—Beat six ounces of fresh butter into a cream, and stir into it six ounces of fine sugar. Beat two eggs to a froth; add a table-spoonful of nutmeg. Mix the eggs and butter together, and blend with them three- quarters of a pound of fine flour. Roll out the paste thin, and cut into small cakes. Time to bake, twelve to eighteen minutes. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Sufficient for two dozen or more cakes. Dowlet Pie.—To three pounds of roast or boiled veal, minced, add half a pound of beef fiuot, and, when shred very fine, three or four well-beaten eggs, i>art of u small nutmeg, gi-ated, and a little allspice. Lay some of the mixture in a pie-dish, and tlirow well-stoned laisins on the top; then cover the raisins with more of the mixture, and sprinkle raisins till half a pound hiis been used up. Bake in a quick oven, and when done pour into the pie some sweet sauce, or serve witli wine kjiuco in a tureen. Time, lialf to three-quarters of an hour. Ktiflicient for six or seven persons. Dresden Patties.—For these patties, take off the outer crust of a stale Frcjnch roll, divide the crumb into slices, and then into rounds, with a tin cutter. Make the slices sutticiently thick to allow of the middle being scooped out. Dip the croustades into milk, drain well, smear with egg, and cover with fine bread- raspings, fried in butter to a pale brown colour. They are then filled with a compote of fruit, or they may be made savoury and filled with minced fowl, ham, and tongue, or with oysters, mushrooms, &c. Time to fiy, five minutes. Dripping, Clarified.—Make the dripping hot and pour it into boiling water. Stir it for three or four minutes, then leave it to get cold. The impurities will aU sink to the bottom, and may be easily removed with a knife. Dripping may be used many times for frying purposes, if it is clarified every time. Every little piece of fat should be melted dovm, and the dripping clarified. It may then be used either for frj'- ing or for household pastry. In making pastry good beef dripping is very much to be preferred to cheap common butter. Dripping, Potted.—Take six poimds of beef dripping; boil it in good soft water, and strain into a pan till cold; remove it from the pan, and clear off the gravy that adheres to the under part; repeat the boiling process several times, and take away the sediment. "V^lien quite clear, and free from gra^y, put the dripping into a saucepan with six bay-leaves, a quarter of an ounce of white pepper, a few cloves, and half a pound of salt. Let it melt at a very gentle heat, and when it is hot enough to pour strain it through a sieve into the pot, and cover it over to get cold. Or it may be melted without any addition, except the salt, and, if required for pastry, this latter mode is the preferable. Dryburgh. Butter Cakes.—Rub well into one pound of the best flour eight oimces of fresh butter, and make it into a paste •«'ith half a pint of milk and a well-beaten egg, add- ing four ounces of powdered sugar. When the ingredients are sufficiently amalgamated, and the paste wrought into a proper consistency, roll out thin, cut into circles, dust \rith fine sugar, and bake on a btittered tin, in a quick oven, for about ten minutes. Probable cost, Is. 4d. Duchess Loaves.—Duchess loaves are very similar to petits choii^, but larger and differently shaped. They are made as follows : Put two ounces of sugar and four ounces of butter into a saucepan, with half a pint of milk , or cold water Let them boil, then draw thettXJO DUG ( 187 ) pan to the side, and stir in five ounces of dried and sifted flour. Put the mixture again upon the fire, and stir it briskly with a wooden spoon for three or four minutes; then add a little lemon or orange flavouring and a well-beaten egg; and when this is thoroughly incorporated with the other ingredients a second egg may be added, and if it is requii-ed the yolk of a third, but the eggs must be added singly and whisked thoroughly before they are put in, and care must be taken that the paste is left stiff enough not to spread when it is put upon the baking sheet. Make the paste up into small flat loaves, four inches long and one inch and a half wide, and bake these on a buttered sheet until they are Vghtly and evenly coloured. A few minutes before they are taken from the oven sprinkle a little powdered sugar over them, and before serving open them at the side, and introduce a little jam or marmalade. Pile them neatly on a napkin before sending them to table. Pastry of tins kind should be slowly baked. Probable cost, lOd. for this quantity. Sufficient for a small dish. Duck (a la Fran<jaise).—Lard the breast of a duck with bacon, and put it on the spit before a clear fire for twenty minutes, and then into a atewpan of gravy previously prepared in the following manner:—To one pint of beef gravy add two dozen chestnuts, roasted and peeled, two onions, sliced and fried in butter, two sage-leaves, and a sprig of thjTne; pepper and salt. When the duck has stewed twenty minutes put it on a dish, add a quarter of a pint of port wine to the g^a^'y, a little butter and flour to thicken, pour it hot over the duck, and serve. Probable cost, 3s. to 4s. Sufficient for four or five persons. Duck (a r Italienne).—Cook a.duck en braise {see Duck, Braised, with Turnips). Put two large table-spoonfuls of oil into a stewpan, add a bunch of parsley, some chives and mushrooms, mince them very finely and stew for ten minutes, then thicken with flour, and pour the gravy from the duck, and simmer for a few minutes longer. Skim and strain the whole, which ought to be rather thick, and send to table with the duck. Time to braise, three-quartei-s to one hour. Probable cost, Ss. 6d. to 48. Sufficient for four or five persons. Duck (a la mode).—Take a couple of ducks, divide them into quarters, and lay them in a stewpan with a sprinkling of flour, pepper, and salt. Put a large lump of butter di\'ided into pieces at the bottom of the stewpan, and fry the ducks imtil they are a nice light brown colour. Remove the frjTng fat, and pour in half a pint of gravy, and a glass of port; sprinkle more flour and add a bunch of sweet herbs, two or three shallots minced fine, an anchovj', and a little cayenne. When the ducks have been stewing in the gravj for about twenty minutes, if the stewpan has been tightly closed, they will be found done enough. Put the ducks on a dish, take out the herbs, clear off any fat, and serve with the sauce thrown over them. Probable cost, 7s. 6d. per couple. Sufficient, a couple of ducks for six or seven persons. Duck Boiled.—" A duck boiled is a duck spoiled," is an old proverb, but had the originator lived in the north of Wales it never would have been uttered. There they boil ducks often and well, but they salt them first, and serve them smothered with onion sauce. Time to simmer gently, thirty to forty minutes. Probable cost, 3s. to 4s. Sufficient for four or more persons. Duck, Braised, with Green Peas.— Prepare and cook as for turnips (see the fol- lowing recipe), using green peas instead of the small slices of turnips. Fry two onions in butter tin they are of a pale brown, and boil them to a thick sauce, with some of the gravy from the duck. Season with salt and pepper, and serve with the peas laid under the duck and the gravy thrown over. Time, one hour for duck; peas, half an hour. Probable cost, 3s. to 4s. Use one quart of peas. Duck, Braised, with Turnips.—Pre- pare a duck as if for roasting. Line a small pan just large enough for the duck, with slices of bacon. Strew over the bottom a little parsley, chives, thyme, and lemon-peel. Lay in the duck, and add a carrot cut into strips, an onion stuck with three cloves, season with pepper, and cover with stock broth and a glass of white wine. Baste frequently, and simmer an hour, or till done. Fry some slices of turnip in butter to a light brown, drain and add them to the stewpan, after removing the duck, which should be kept hot. When the turnips are tender remove them and strain the gravy, thickening if necessary with a little flour. Put the duck on a dish, throw the hot gravy over, and garnish with the tiimips. Fry the turnips eight or ten minutes. Sufficient for four or five persons. Duck, Devilled (alaFran^aise).—Dividu a duck down the middle, prick the flesh aU over with a skewer, and rub into it a mixture of mustard, pepper, salt, and chutney sauce, then broil or roast. Make a gravy of equal quantities of rich stock, white wine, ketchup, and lemon-pickle, two table-spoonfuls of each, add a little sugar, warm all together and serve hot over the duck. Time, twenty to thirty minutes to broil. Duck-Giblet Soup.—Of duck giblets three or foui- sets will be required, as they are small, and the feet are now left attached to a duck when roasted. Scald four sets, clean and cut them into pieces of an inch in length. Put them into a saucepan with three quarts of water, a pound of gravy beef (or if more convenient some stock may be added after the giblets have been stewed), two onions, a faggot of sweet herbs, and the rind of a ver^^ small lemon. Simmer tUl the bones are loose and the gizzard soft, then strain the broth, season with salt, pepper, and cayenne, and put the giblets into a tiireen by the side of the fire. Brown some thin slices of onion in butter, and stir in some flour to thicken the soup; po\ir the broth into the stewpan with the thickening, and stir for ten minutes or till it boils, then skim and strain into the tureen, adding one or two glasses of Madeira, a dessert-spoonful of ketchup, and theDUG ( 188 ) DtJC juice of a small lemon. Time to Btow the g-iblots, throo liours. Probable cost, Is. per quart. SutHuiout for ton purdons. Dtick, Gravy for. —Boil the giblets (omitting tlio livor) in a pint of wator for an hour, adding to them a small onion chopped, and salt and popper to taste. Strain, colour with a little browning, and stir up with a toa- spoonful of coratch, and the same of muslu-oom ketchup. Or, good stock lightly mixed with browned flour may be used instead of water for boiling the giblets: and the addition of a little rod wine will increase the richness of the gravy. Duck, Gravy for (another way).—Take the necks and gizzards of two ducks, a spoonful of port wine, half an anchovy, a blade or two of mace, a slice of the ond of a lemon, an onion, and a little pepper; add a pint of wator, and boil to half a pint; strain through a sieve on to a spoonful of browning mado of burnt sugar, and pour over the ducks. Duck, Hashed.—Divide a roast duck into joints, take off the skin and lay the joints with some good gravy in a stewpan, add a little mixed spice, a glass of port, and a seasoning of salt and cayenne, skim from aU. fat, and when thoroughly hot thicken with butter and flour, and strain and serve the duck on a dish, the gravy round it, and with a garnish of bread sip- pets ; or cut up the duck and boil the trimmings, adding sliced onion previously fried in butter to one pint of stock, half a tea-spoonful of chopped lemon-peel, two of lemon-juice, and a half glass of port wine. Season with salt and pepper, and when it has well boiled, sldm, strain, thicken, and add it to the duck. Stew, - but do not boil. Serve as before with sippets of bread as a garnish. Time, fiiteen to twenty minutes to stew. Suf&cient for four or five persons. Duck Pie.—Previous to putting the duck into the pie-dish, boil it for about fifteen minutes, but first cut off the neck and wings, which should be stewed for a few minutes with the giblets in a stewpan containing two ounces of good butter, a bunch of herbs, an onion sliced, an anchovy, a blade of mace, some salt, pepper, and a drachm of cayenne. When the butter has dissolved, pour in half a pint of boiling water, and stew gently for a full hour; then strain and add the mixture to the gravy from the dock. Cut up the duck neatly, and arrange it in the pie-dish, adding more seasoning if required; skim off aU fat from the gravy, which should be cold, and pour it into the dish. Cover with a puff, or any crust liked. Time, one hour to bake. Sufficient for four or more persons. Duck, Hoast.—This universal favourite reqmres no praise. "Without entering into the question of the best duck, we say at once, take a young farm-yard duck fattened at liberty, but cleansed by being shut up two or three days and fed on barley-meal and water. Two small young ducks make a better dish than a large, handsome, hard-fleshed drake, which, as a rule, is best fit for a stew, or to be cooked en braise {see Duck, Braised). If the poul- terer does ixot prepare the duck, it must be plucked, singed, and emptied; the feet scalded, skinned, and twisted round on the back of the bird; head, nock, and piniouH cut off, the latter at the first joint, and all skewered firmly to give the breast a nice plump appear- ance. For the stuUbig, take lialf a pound of onions, a tea-spoonlul of powdered sage, three table-spoonfuls of bread-crumbs, the hver of duck parboiled and minced with pepper, salt, and cayenne. Cut the onions veri/ fine, throw boiling wator over them, and cover for ten minutes; drain through a gravy strainer, and add the bread-crumbs, minced liver, sage, pepper and salt to tasto; mix, and put it inuide the duck. This quantity is for one duck; more onion and sago may bo added, but we recommend the above as a deUcate compound not likely to disagree with the stomach. Let the duck bo hung a day or two, according to the weather, to make the fiesh tender. Roast before a brisk clear fire, baste often, and dredge with flour to make the bird look frothy. Serve with a good brown gravy in the dish, and apple sauce in a tureen. Time: ducks, three-quarters of an hour to an hour; ducklings, twenty-five to thirty-five minutes. Probable cost, Ss. to 4s. each. Sufficient, two ducks for seven or eight persona. A BOAST DUCK. Duck, Roast, To Carve.—A young duckling should be carved in the same way as a fowl, the leg and wing being taken off, first of all, on either side {see Fowl, Roast, To Carve). A full-sized bird should be carved hke a goose. First cut shoes from the breast, in the direction indicated in the figure by the dotted lines from a to b. The first slices are to be cut close to the wing; then proceed upwards towards the breast-bone. The legs and wings may afterwards be attacked. An opening is to made, shown by the dotted line c, to get at the stuffing. Duck, Salmi of.—Take the giblets of a duck, stew them gently in veal-gravy seasoned with cayenne, three finely-shred shallots, and some pepper and salt. Roast the duck, cut it up, and lay it in a stewpan with the gravy. Simmer till quite hot, then squeeze a bitter orange into the sauce, strain it over the duck, and send to table hot. More seasoning may be added for the English palate. Salmis are great favourites with French epicures; they are a species of moist devil, sufficiently piquant, ns a rule, to please a Frenchman's taste. Time: twenty minutes to roast; twenty minutes to stew. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Duck, Stewed, with Cabbage.—Roast a nice fat duck before a clear fire for about twenty minutes; let it be well seasoned with( 189 ) DUO T)epper and salt before it is put on the spit. Put It into a stewpan with the ^'ravj' procm-ed from the roasting, and enough oi beef gravy to cover it; add a seasoning of sage-leaves, lemon thyme, pepper, and salt, with some sliced onion pre- viously fried in butter. When it has stewed twenty minutes, strain the gravy, thicken with brown thickening, and pour it over the duck, which should have a layer of cabbage to rest on {see Cabbage, Stewed). Mashed turnips or som-krout may be substituted for cabbage. Sufdcient for four or more persons. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. Duck, Stewed, with Green Peas.— Cut off the lind from half a pound of rather lean bacon. Divide it iato pieces of about two inches each way, and fry to a light brown with butter. Dredge in a little flour, and after stirring about three minutes, add a pint of broth, an onion stuck with two cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, salt, and pepper. The duck should be previously fried or roasted for ten minutes to make it a good colour, then put into the stewpan with the gravy and stewed slowly for an hour and a quarter, or till tender. MeanwMle stew a quart. of peas with butter {see Peas, Green, French Mode of Cooking). Place the ducks and peas on a hot dish, pour over them the gravy strained and thickened, and serve hot. Duck, Stuflibd.—Bone a duck carefully, without breaking the skin. Boil the bones in a small quantity of water, and use the liquor for the gravy. Make a rich stuffing with half a pound of veal, half a pound of good suet, some parsley, chives, and mushrooms. Season with salt and pepper, and make all into a paste with two well-beaten eggs and a Uttle cream. Fill the inside of the duck, cook it en braise {see Duck, Braised), and serve with a ragout of chestnuts prepared with the gravy from the bones. Time, about an hour. Sufficient for five or six persons. {See also Duck, Roast). Duck, Wild, Hashed.—Carve the duck neatly as helped at table, put the joints into a stewpan with a pint of good brown gravy, add a table-spoonful of Seville orange-juice or lemon pickle, a glass of claret, mixed spice, salt, and cayenne to taste, and thicken with bread- crumbs. Let it get gradually hot, and when on the point of boiling, serve with sippets of toast as a garnish. Any cold wild fowl may be hashed as above, but for pheasants and part- ridges use white wine instead of claret. Time, from fifteen to twenty minutes. Duck, "Wild, Roast.—The essentials to be observed in roasting wild duck are, first, to keep the gravy well in the breast of the bird, and, next, not to lose the flavour through over-dressing. Pluck and draw carefully, wipe out the inside with a clean cloth, cut off the head and neck, and scald the feet, which are either to be rested on each side of the breast or trussed like those of a fowl. Put the duck before a brisk fire for five minutes to brown the outside and protect the prravy, then baste plentifully with butter till done. Dredge with flour to give it a nice frothy appearance, and serve with a gravy in the dish, or in a tureen, if preferred. Make a gravy as follows:—Boil down the necks and gizzards in a pint of water till reduced to half a pmt, or take half a pint of veal gravy, add to it a shce oft" the end of a lemon or orange, an onion, three or fom- leaves of basil, a blade of mace, and a little pepper and salt; boil all together, strain, and add a glassful of port wine and the juice of a Seville orange or lemon. Serve hot. Time to roast, twenty to twenty-flve minutes. Probable cost, 48. to 5s. the couple. Allow two for a dish. Duck, with Olives.—This is a simple dish, but much liked in Provence. Cook a duck en braise {see Duck, Braised.) Prepare the gravy in the usual way, adding plenty of mush- rooms after the gravy has been strained. Soak some olives for three hours, remove the stones, put them into the gravy and boil up quickly. Then put in the duck and simmer twenty minutes. Serve on a hot dish, with the sauce poured over. Time to braise and stew, an hour and a half. Probable cost, Ss. 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Ducklings, Roasted.—Make a stuffing thus:—Boil four middle-sized onions ten or twelve minutes, and chop them very fine; add a table-spoonful of bread-criuhbs, equal quantities of powdered sage, pepper, and flour of mustard—half a salt-spoonful of each—a tea- spoonful of brandy, and an ounce or more of dis- solved butter, with salt to taste; or if preferred the following stuffing may be used:—Two ounces of bread-crumbs, the same of butter, a little chopped parsley, two leaves of sage powdered, a small bit of lemon-peel, three shallots, with pepper and salt. Roast the ducks before a quick fire, give them steady basting for about half an hour, then serve with the gravy dripped from them, and a good squeeze of lemon-juice add stock if required, with a tea-spoonful of soy, a little cayenne, or any sauce preferred, and when Ishickened send to table in a tureen. Duke of Norfolk's Pudding.—Take six eggs, separate the yolks from the whites, beat up the yolks with a glassful of brandy, and flavour well wdth nutmeg and sugar. Boil a large cupful of the best Carolina rice in a pint of Madeira for half an hour; add one dozen ratafia cakes and the egg mixture, and beat all together. Have ready a dish lined with puff paste, and bake slowly for three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, without Madeira or brandy, Is. This quantity is sufficient for five or six persons. Duke of Northumberland's Pud- ding.—Take of bread-crumbs, currants, and finely-fihred suet, each six ounces; of candied peel, mixed, one ounce. Beat up six eggs, leav- ing out the whites of two; add six ounces of sugar, a pinch of salt, half a grated nutmeg, and the whole of the rind of a lemon, also grated. When these ingredients are thoroughly blended and beaten, butter a mould or basin, and boil the pudding three hours. Serve with a sauce as follows:—Into about a quarter of a pint of melted butter pour a glass of brandy or sherry, and the juice of a lemon, and add two ounces of loaf sugar, on which the rind of the lemon has been rubbed off. Stir the sauce whenDUT DUM ( 190 ) well mixed over the firo, and send hot to table. Probable cost, Is. Ud. Sullicicnt for live or si.x persons. Dumbarton Cake.—Beat up four eggs with hall" a pint of new milk, and flavour them with orange-tlower or rose-water. Turn half a pound of butter to cream, and work into it half a pound of white sugar, l^ut those together, and add a wine-glassful of brandy, a quarter of on ounce of cinnamon, and the same of grated nutmeg. Dissolve as much c^irbonato of soda as will cover a shilling in a table-spoonful of hot water, and beat in sufficient Hour to make the mixture as for a pound cake. Bake in a but- tered tin and a quick oven. Time, one hour or more. Probable cost, 'is. Dumpling Drops.—Take one pound and a half ot the best flour, make a hole in the middle, into which put a quarter of an ounce of fresh German yeast, with a quarter of a pint of warm water or milk, mix it into a thin batter, scatter a little flour lightly over the top, and leave it by the side of the fire to rise. When well risen make it into a dough, with a little more warm milk, to which add two well-beaten eggs and a little salt. Let it rise for an hour, form it into light balls, and drop them one by one into fast-boiling water. When done, drain them an instant, but send to table quickly with gravy, or sugar and butter, or with melted butter, sweetened and flavoured with lemon- juice. Time, twenty minutes to boil. Probable cost, about 8d. Dumplings, Half-hour.—Shred very finely half a pound of beef suet, and prepare the same weight of bread-crumbs, with the addition of one table-spoonful of flour, three ounces of currants, two oimces of sugar, a little lemon-peel and grated nutmeg, with three weU- beaten eggs to moisten. Roll the dough into balls, tie them separately in small cloths, and boU very quickly. Serve with melted butter, sweetened, poured over them. Time, half an hour to boil. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for eight or ten dumplings. Dumplings, Plain.—Take one pound of light dough, maae as for bread, and roll it into small round balls, as large as an egg. Drop them into a saucepan of fast-boiling water, first flattening them with the hand. Care should be taken to keep the water boiling, and to serve quickly when done, or they will be heavy. If the dough be mixed with milk, instead of water, the dumplings will be more delicate. They may be sent to table as an accompaniment to meat, or eaten with a sweet sauce. Time, twenty minutes to boil. Probable cost, 2d. per pound. Sufficient for twelve dumplings. Dumplings, Steamed.—Get the ordi- nary dough at the baker's, and instead of boiling, steam over a saucepan of boiling water. The dumplings wUl take longer to steam than to boil, but they will present a better appearance, being smooth and dry on the outside, than boiled ones. There is besides the saving of an extra saucepan, for any article of food requiring fast boiling may be cooked underneath the steamed dumplings. Carp mu.st bo taken that the water does not stop boiling until they are done, and that they are served quickly. Meat giavy, or melted butter as a sauce. Time, half an )iom to steam. Dutch Apple Pie.—Pare, core, auq hUco tlu-eo pounds of up]jleH, and wash and dry half a pound of currants; lay part of the apples in a dish, and strew the currants, some sugar, and the grated rind of a lemon over. Take off the white part of the lemon, cut the pulp into thin slices, and spread them on the currants, add sugar and plenty of candied orange and citron-peel sliced, and fill up with the remainda of the apples. Cover with a light paste and bake in a rather quick oven for an hour or more. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for seven or eight persons. Dutch Cream.—Separate the whites from the yolks of three eggs, beat up the latter, and pour them gradually into a pint of new nulk. Set the milk in an enamelled saucepan, and add to it a pint of cream, five ounces of loaf sugar, and two drachms of vaniUa cut small. Stir the mixture over a slow firo for about ten minutes, and when thick enough, pour it through a coarse strainer. It must not boil. Sufficient for one quart or more. Probable cost, 2s. 4d. Dutch Custard.—Break six eggs into a basin, add three ounces of fine sugar, and whisk thoroughly. Line a pie-dish with puff paste, or if preferred, only put a border round the edge. Mix a pint and a half of freshly- picked raspberries with three oimces of sugar, add it to the eggs, and pour the mixture into the pie-dish. Bake in a moderate oven. Time, thirty to thirty-five minutes. Probable cost, Is. 9d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Dutch Flummery.—Pare the rind of a lemon very thin, and infuse it in a pint of water with half a pound of sugar. Set it on the fire until the sugar is dissolved, and the syrup well flavoured. Add two oimces of isinglass and stir till this also is melted, then throw in the strained juice of four lemons, a tumblerful of wine, and the yolks of eight eggs. Strain the mixture, put it into a jug, set the jug in a saucepan of boiling water, and stir until the flummery thickens. Take it out of the water, allow it to cool, and then pour it into moulds. A wine-glassful of brandy may be added to the syrup, but in that case just so much less water will be required. Probable cost, exclusive of wine or brandy, Ss. Time, three or four minutes. Sufficient for a quart moidd. Dutch Loaf—Take a quarter of a pound of butter, half a pound of sugar, one pound of dried CTirrants, two table-spoonfuls of cinnamon, a pint of sponge, and as much flour as will form a dough. Make a sponge the evening before you wish to bake a cake, of a tea-cupful and a half of milk, and as much flour stirred into it as will form a thick batter, with a little salt, and one gill of good yeast. In the morning this sponge should be light. Then beat the butter and sugar together, add the cinnamon, currants, and sponge, and flour enough to form a dough. Butter a pan, and when the mixture is light, bake it in an oven about as hot as for bread.DUT EEL C 191 ) Dutch Sauce.—Put tour ounces of butter, three well-beaten yolks of eggs, a tea-spoonful of flour, and a dessert-spoonful of lemon-juice or vinegar into an earthenwai-o pipkin, or stir it very gently over the fire in a bain-marie. As the butter melts, stii- constantly, and take care it does not curdle, which it will do if it is allowed to boU. A few drops of vinegar may be added just before serving if thought neces- sary. This sauce has a pleasant soui- flavour. It is specially adapted for asparagus, cauli- flower, sea-kale, artichokes, boiled fish, meat or poultry; in fact, anything requiring a deli- cate sharp sauce. The leaves picked from a bunch of parsley pounded in a mortar to ex- tract the juice, simmered for a few minutes and added to half pint of bechamel sauce, makes, with a little salt, cayenne, and the juice of half a lemon stirred in just before serving, what is called " Green Dutch Sauce." Simmer till thick. Probable cost, 8d. Dutch Sauce for Pish.—Blend together two ounces of butter and a small tea-spoonful of flour, put it into a stewpan with equal quantities of water and tarragon vinegar, two table-spoonfuls of each, stir for a minute, and add the beaten yolks of two eggs, keeping up the stirring until the mixture thickens. It must not boil, and when ready to serve pour into it half the juice of a lemon. Make this sauce in a gallipot, placed in a saucepan of boiling water. Dutch Sauce, Green {s:e Dutch Sauce). Dutch Water Souchy.—Any fresh- water fish is good for this dish. Remove the gills and eyes, and throw them aside, but boU down the heads, tails, and fins with one or two of the fish that will not cut into neat pieces; add an onion, parsley, lemon-peel, pepper, and salt, and about two quarts of water. Boil till the stock is strong enough. Skim, strain, and stew eels, flounders, perch, whiting, gudgeon, &c., all cut into small pieces, in this hquor. Any additional flavouring may be added; an anchovy or shallot is an improvement. Slices of brown bread and butter generally accomfiany this dish at table, and melted butter and parsley in a tureen. Time to make the stock, one hour; to stew fish, ten minutes. E Eastwell Biscuits.—Mix one pound of flour with a pinch of salt. Rub in eight ounces of butter, and add eight ounces of sugar, a little grated ginger, and three eggs, to make a soft paste. Let this rest for an hour. Roll it thmly and stamp it into small shapes. Bake in a moderate oven. Before baking brush the shapes over with egg and sprinkle washed and dried currants or chopped almonds on the top. Eau Sucre.—This is a very general beve- rage in France, made without rule as to quan- tity. A little sugar and some boiling water are the only ingredients. It is considered sopo- rific, and for this reason is much drunk at Bupper-time. Edgings to Dishes.—Of these there is a gl i al variety. We give such as are in general use for made dishes; for instance, rice, mashed potato, all kinds of pastry edgings, peeled new roimdpotatoes, sippets of friedbread, hard-boiled eggs, small cucumbers, tomatoes, sliced beetroot, and lemon, with the white of egg beaten to a froth and dropped on each slice of lemon, and then powdered over with cayeime pepper. Then, for sweet dishes, there is an almost endless variety, but the most elegant are preserved fruits and cream beaten to a froth, and coloured either green or red. It would be impossible to give a recipe for every land of garniture, nor is it necessary. A good cook will use her own ^'udgment and taste, but perhaps for the inexperienced it would be wise to say whf<t edgings best suit certain dishes; for instance, hashes of all kinds may be garnished with sippets of fried bread cut into fanciful shapes, mashed potatoes, and even rice, though the latter is more generally used for cuiTies. Mush- rooms are a most appropriate edging to stewed beef, and hard boiled eggs for calf's head en toHue, or stewed soles; beetroot and parsley are excellent as a garnish for cold meat, and thin strips of beetroot laid crosswise on the breast of a boiled fowl give an excellent finish. Eel Broth.—Take one pound of eels, a bunch of eweet herbs, some parsley, one onion, and a few peppercorns, cloves, and salt and pepper to taste. Clean and skin the fish, cut it into small pieces, and put it into a stewpan with the other ingredients, and six pints of water. Simmer till the liquid is reduced one- half, remove the scum as it rises, and strain aU through a sieve. When the broth is cold and wanted for use, take oflp the fat and warm only what is required. Sippets of toasted bread should be served at the same time. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Sufficient to make three pints of broth. Eel Patties.—Skin and wash some middle- sized eels, and after having cut them into pieces of an inch long, soak in salt and water for an hour. When drained, put them into a stewpan with just enough hot water to cover them; add salt, pepper, a blade of mace, a little lemon-peel, and a sprig of parsley. When the fish will sepa- rate from the bone, which will be the case after eight or ten minutes' gentle stewing, divide each piece into two, and put them aside until the broth has stewed a little longer, then re- move the lemon-peel, mace, &c. Thicken with butter and a little flour, flavour with lemon- juice or vinegar, and return the pieces of eel to the broth. Make patties as directed for mutton patties {see Mutton Patties). Time a quarter of an hour to bake the crust. Eel Pie.—Having skinned and cleansed two pounds of large-sized eels, divide them into pieces of two or three inches in length. Cut oS the heads, tails, and fins, and boil them with a little lemon-peel, a shallot, a blade of mace, and as much of veal or mutton broth as will cover the eels in the pie-dish. Thicken with butter and flour, and add the juice of half a lemon When strained and cool, throw the broth into the pie-dish over the eels, sprinkle them with pepper, II■hi i<!Tji ( 102 ) EEIi salt, and chopped parsley, and cover with pufp paste. Bako in a moderately brisk oven about one hour and a quarter, or the ouls may hu stowed fir«t for half an hour and then iinislied in the pie. Probable cost, 6d. to Is. per pound. Eel Pie (another way).—Take eels that weigh not lossthuii half a pound when skinned. Put the heads, tails, and fins into a stowpan with some good veal broth, an onion, a blade of mace, a bit of lemon-pool, pepper, and salt. Cut tho fish into pieces of throe inches in length, and after soaking them in salt and water, rinse, drain, and lay them in a pie-dish with a season- ing of pepper and salt between each layer. ' When the broth is well flavoured, skim, and strain it into a basin to get cold, then pour it over the eels, and bake with an edging and cover of paste in a brisk oven. Warm a little gravy with two table-spoonfuls of cream, and pour it into the pie through a paper funnel as soon as it comes from the oven. Time, one hour to bake. Probable cost, 6d. to Is. per pound. Two pounds sufi&cient for four or five persons. Eel Pie with Tench..—Skin two eels, and bone them, and clean and bone two tench. Cut the eels into two-inch pieces, but .the tench leave whole. Put water to the bones and trimmings, and stew them for one hour. This liquor, when strained, and the fat taken off, boiled with two onions, four blades of mace, three anchovies, pepper, salt, and a bunch of herbs, will be ready, when strained, for the pie. Lay the eels and the tench into a dish, with a few hard-boiled eggs and chopped parsley, in layers, and pour in as much of the Uquor as is required. Cover with puff paste, and bake in a rather quick oven. More liquor may be added after the pie is done. Time, about thirty-five minutes to bake. Sufficient for four persons. Eel Soup.—Soak three pounds of middle- sized eels in salt and water. Cut off the heads, bone, and slice them thinly. Simmer them in a stewpan, with three ounces of good butter. Allow them ten minutes, and then add two quarts of water, an onion sliced, a bunch of sweet herbs, three blades of mace, some pepper- corns, salt to taste, and a small roll. Simmer till the eels are tender, then remove them, and strain the liquid. Make a smooth batter with two table-spoonfuls of flour and a quarter of a pint of cream; put this and the liquid together, and boO. up, to throw over the sliced eels in the tureen. A piece of toasted bread cut into dice may be sent up with it. Time, one hour or more. Probable cost, Is. per quart. Sufficient for eight persons. Eel Soup, Brown.—Fry three pounds of •els, after rolling them in flour, bread-crumbs, or batter. Open, take out the bones, and set them aside. Fry chopped onions brown in butter, browning afterwards enough flour to thicken the soup without egg-yolks. Stir in gradually either water or stock; during the process season as for oel soup, white {see Eel Soup, White). Put in tho eel, and if you will, add at the same time a glass of white wine. After one boil up, servo, accompanied by bread dice toasted or fried. Similar soups can bo made with other firm-floshod. middle. 8i:ced fish, as small conger, soles, k2 iiy tlie same tr(;utiju;nt cold remnants of fish of various kinds, both boil.^d and fried, may be economised by appearing in novel and palu- table forms of soup. 'I'hey can be enriched by any lobster, oyster, or anchovy sauce that ia lott. It you happen to have a few shiimps pick a hjindful; boil their sheik; with a little of the hquor give a slight flavour of shrimps to the soup, at tho same time tbit you throw in your shi-imp meats. These soups bear a dust of cayenne and sugar, and should be accom- panied by bread or rolls. Eel Soup, White.—Set a saucepan of water on tho fire; season with salt, whole pepper, a blade of mace, a strip of lemon-peel, and a bunch of the most fragrant sweet herbs at command. When it boUs, throw in the eels. As soon as they are done enouffA (and they are spoiled if done too much)—^just enough to let the flesh come away from the bone—take them out, spHt them in two, and remove the bone. Each length of eel wiU thus make two pieces, which should be left entire. Set them aside. Chop fine three or four white onionB. RoU a lump of butter in flour; put it in a stewpan vsdth the onions; moisten gradually Avith a little of the eel broth. When the onions are tender, add the rest of the liquor (removing the herbs and the lemon-peel), stir- ring it in gradually, with a tea-cupful ot fresh milk. Throw in the eel meats, and set the soup aside until they are hot through. While they are so heating, you may further thicken with a couple of egg-yolks well worked into a little of the liquor. Taste if sufficiently sea- soned. You wlU find an almost imperceptible dust of sugar an improvement. In fact, most white soups, even when seasoned with salt, are the better for a sprinkling with sugar. Eels (a la Poulette).—When the eel has been skinned and cleaned, cut into pieces, and roll the pieces first in melted butter, and then in flour. Put the pieces of eel into a stewpan with equal qantities of white wine and water; add a bunch of herbs, some mushrooms, pepper, and salt, and stew till done ; then remove the fish, and thicken the gravy with flour, butter, and egg. After skimming off the fat from the sur- face, serve quickly, and add a squeeze of lemon- juice, and a little vinegar. Time to stew, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, 6d. to Is. per pound. Eels (a la Tartare).—Skin and cleanse two oi three eels, cut thom into pieces of two inches, and let the pieces lie half an hour in salt and water. Take equal quantities of red wine and stock broth, a gill of each; simmer the pieces of eel in this until nearly done. "\\Tion cool, dip each piece separately into oiled butter or beaten egg, cover with bread-crumbs, and broil or fry till all are nicely browned. Serve with tartar sauce on the dish (see Tartar Sauce). Bread crusts broAvnod in the oven, and then pounded fine, make tho best crumbs for eels. Time, twenty-five minutes to simmer; to fry, five minutes. Sufficient, two pounds, for five or six persons.EEL EEIi Eels, Baked.—Take a large eel that has been skirmed and well cleansed. Fill it with a forcemeat composed of the following mgi-e- dients: three table-spoonfuls of hread-crumbs, and the Kime quantity of shelled shrimps, a little pounded mace, two ounces of butter, pepper, and salt, pounded to a paste, with the beaten yolk of an egg. When stuffed, put the eel into a roimd baking-dish with water and sherry, the quantity of the former being twice as much as that of the latter, add two or three ounces of butter, and bake. When ready to serve, skim and strain the gravy. Garnish with slices of I lemon. Time, three-quarters of an hour to bake. Probable cost, 6d. to Is. per pound. Sufficient for two or more persons. Eels, Boiled.—Soak three or four small ones (if they are preferred), ia strong salt and water for an hour. Drain them, and put them into a stewpan, with just the quantity of water requisite to cover the fish. Add a bunch of parsley, and let the eels simmer about half an hour. Serve in a shallow dish, with melted butter sharpened with plenty of lemqn-juice. Sufficient for four persons. Eels, Boiled, for Convalescents £xVALID Cookeky).—When the skin has been awn off the eel, it is placed before a clear fire, or on a gridiron over a fire, to rid it of the oUy matter. When it has parted with the fat (it will not require to be kept before the fire for this purpose more than ten minutes), scrape and wash it in warm water, and then put it into a saucepan with more hot water—about one quart—add a bunch of parsley, and a small quantity of salt, and simmer till done. Serve with a little of the broth in the dish, and minced parsley as well. It should be simmered for twenty minutes. Probable cost, 6d. to Is. per povmd. Eels, Broiled.—Clean and skin two eels; if large ones, cut them into pieces of three or four inches; if small, they should be curled round, but first sprinkled with a mixture of chopped parsley, pepper, salt, and a little powdered sage, then rubbed or dipped in yolk of egg, and strewn with bread-crumbs. Broil over a clear fire till lightly browned. Send to table melted butter sharpened with lemon-juice. Time, twenty minutes. Probable cost, from 6d. to Is. per pound. Sufficient for four or five persons. COULARBD EELS, Eels, Collared.—Take a large eel, cut off the head and tail, and remove the skin and backbone without tearing the flesh. Spread it out flat on a board, and cover it with a season- ing composed of the following ingredients:— A small bunch of herbs, two leaves of sage minced very fine, two cloves, two blades of mace, and a little aUspico and whole pepper well pounded, with salt to taste. Roll up the eel, beginning with the broad end, and bind it tightly with a tape. BoU down the backbone, head, and tail with pepper, salt, mace, and vinegar. Put the eel to this liquor, and stew about three-quarters of an hour, and when tender set it aside. Boil up the liquor with more vinegar and spice, if required, and when cool add it to the fish. Probable cost, 6d. to Is. per poiind. Eels (en Matelote).—Cut up some very small onions—five or six of them—and brown them with a little butter and flour in a stew- pan. When of a light brown, add about haH a pint of good broth and a vtdne-glassful of port wine, a few mushrooms, a laurel-leaf, salt, pepper, and nutmeg to taste. Have ready two pounds of eels, divided into lengths of three inches, simmer them in this gravy till tender, then remove the eels and place them high in the centre of a dish. Thicken the sauce with butter and flour, and serve it hot poured over. Time to stew the eels, half an hour. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. for this quantity. Sufficient for four or five persons. Eels, Fricasseed.—Cut up four pounds of skinned eels into pieces of four inches in length, put them into a stewpan with equal quantities of sheny wine and water, enough to cover them; add twenty oysters, a bunch of herbs, an onion stuck with five or six cloves, some parsley, pepper, salt, and cayenne. WTien the eels have stewed one hour remove them to a dish, strain the gravy, and put it back into the stewpan with a quarter of a pint of cream and some butter —about an ounce—rolled in flour. Thicken this gravj', and pour it over the fish. Serve with horse-radish as a garnish. Probable cost, 6d. to Is. per pound. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Eels, Fried.—After the eel has been skinned and cleansed, cut it into neat pieces of four inches long, and when quite dry, season them with salt and pepper, and dip each piece into the beaten yolk of egg, cover it with bread-crumbs, and fry to a nice brown in butter or lard. If the eels are small they are usually curled round instead of being cut into pieces. Garnish with fried parsley, and serve on a napkin. Fry for about twenty minutes. Probable cost, 6d. to Is. per poimd. Eels, Mayonnaise of.—Skin and empty an eel of about two pounds and a half weight, and cut it into lengths of two inches and a half. Throw the pieces into salt and water, and, when thoroughly cleansed, drain and dry them. Place them in neat layers, with spice between each layer, in a potting-dish. Pour a mixture of vinegar and water, with a little dissolved isin- glass in it over the contents of the pot, and siavr or bake in a moderate oven tUl tender. When sent to table, fill a dish with the pieces of eel, and pour over them as much Mayonnaise sauce as will cover them ; decorate according to taste, and surround the dish with lumps of jelly taken from the potting-dish. Time, about one hour to pot.( IW) EGG EEL Eels, Potted.—Cooked in this manner they are said to bo richer and bettor when unakinned. Choose young eels, and cleanBo them aa follows:— Hold the head o^ the fish in your loft hand, grasp it firmly between the thumb and finger; in the other hand have ready a clotli with a good quantity of coarse salt; di'aw the eel through, pressing it tightly as it passes through the salt, then soak in salt and water one hour. When thoroughly cleansed, cat them into pieces about two inches long, put thom into a brown oarthom pot with a cover, season with salt, pepper, and aUapice. Pour vinegar and water on thom, and bake in a slow oven till tender. The pickled eels that are sent from the northern countries of Europe to the south are not skinned. Eels Roasted in the Ashes.—River fish caught in the neighbourhood of farms are roasted expeditiously on the hearth of a wood fire. Wten skinned and cleaned, they are rolled into a spiral form, dusted with pepper and salt, and enclosed in a double buttered paper. A hot part of the hearth is then swept clean, and the papered fish laid upon it. Hot ashes are next shovelled over tiU every part is covered, and when the eels are suffi- cientlj" done, the outside paper is removed, and they are thus sent to table accompanied by plain melted butter or any sauce at hand. Time, about half an hour, or according to the heat of the ashes. Eels, Sauce for.—Eels are generally cooked without their skins, thus rendering them more delicate, and requiring only a mild sauce, such as capers, sorrel, or parsley and butter for boiled eels ; but when very rich, as they always are if the skins are retained, some piquante sauce is necessary (see Sauce a la Tartare). Eels, Spitcheocked.—Large eels are best for this mode of cooking. When skinned and split, the back bones should be taken out SPITCHCOCKED EELS. carefully without tearing the fish, and they should be divided into three or f oui'-inch pieces. Have ready a seasoning of chopped parsley, a very little sage, a blade of mace pounded, pepper, and salt; let the pieces be well smeared with warmed butter and lemon-juice (or let them lie in it for two or three minutes], then strew the seasoning over, and dip each piece in egg and bread-crumbs. Fry in boiling fat, and aerve in a round on tho dish with sauce piquante in the middle. Some prefer plain melted butter with the j uice of lemon. Time, twenty minutes to fry. Probable coat, 6d. to 13. per pound. Eel Spitohoocked (another way).—Skin and clean a krgo eol, and lard it with verj- thin narrow atrips of bacon; make a seasoning of lierbs, salt, and popper; aprinkle tho eel all over with it, then put equal quantitiea of good veal broth and vinegar into a dish, and lay the fish in for throe houra ; let there be enough to cover it. Drain it dry, and fold it in a buttered paper, firat turning and skewering it backwards and forwards, that it may be more conveniently cooked. When on the spit, baste frequently; and add half a pint of white wine to mix with the drippings in tho pan for this purpose. Take off tho paj^er a few minutes before it is quite done, and baste and flour, that it may bo of a nice brown. Fried bread may be placed round the dish, and broiled slices of salmon; or they may be varied with small soles fried of a beautiful colour. Time to roast, from thirty to thirty-five minutes. Probable cost, from 6d. to Is. per pound. Eels, Stewed.—Divide four large eels into pieces of about two inches, and season them with pepper, salt, and a little pounded mace. Lay them in a deep dish with a little veal stock, a bundle of sweet herbs, and a very little chopped parsley sprinkled in layers over them. Tie down with a paper, first putting some small bits of butter on the top. Stewed eels are always best when done in a moderate oven. Time, one hour or more. Probable cost, 6d. to Is. per pound. Egg and Brandy Cream.—Beat well the yolks of fi\o fresh eggs with a spoonful of cream. Add three ounces of sugar, finely pounded and sifted, and two glasses of the best French brandy. Blanch and pound forty almonds, thirty-four sweet ones and six bitter ones, and boil them in a few spoonfuls of milk; add them, when cold, to the eggs, and stir the mixture thoroughly. When it is perfectly mixed, pour it into a well-lined saucepan along with a quart of cream; stir one way till it becomes thick, but do not let it boil. Serve in custard-cups with a ratafia on the top of each. Probable cost, about 48. 9d. Sufficient for twelve cups. Egg Balls.—Boil some eggs tiU they are hard, separate the yolks, pound them, and with the yolks of raw eggs and a little flour, roll up into small balls. These balls are used for turtle soup. Egg Balls (another way).—To one egg put just as little flour as wiU make it into a paste that you can pinch into shape with your fingers. Season with pepper, a little grated nutmeg, and less chopped lemon-peel cut very thin. Work these into pellets the size of marbles, making a few of them long like miniature sausages. Put them into boiling broth, and let them boil galloping till their substance is set. Egg Barley Soup (German).—To the well-beaten yolks of two eggs, and the whites of one, add as much flour as wiU make"a stiff hard ball. Grate it on a coarse bread-grater; let the gratings fall separately over a largo space, and let them dry ; then spriiikle them lightly into boiling broth, and serve. Probable cost, 6d per quart.EGG EGO Cr96 ) Ekk Flip should bo made with white ale if it can bo procured. Make one pint of ale warm, but not too hot. Beat two or tliree eggs, with three ounces of sugar, together, thi-ow the eggs into the jug containing the ale, and then throw both back into the empty jug. This must be done quickly five or sLx times, until aU is well nuxed together; then grate gmger aiid nutmeg over the top, and the flip is quite ready. Serve in glasses while hot. Time, a few minutes. Probable cost, 7d. Egg Mince Pies-—Make some mince- taeat, following a good recipe. Before making up the pies, mi.x the beaten yolks of three eggs with three dessert-spoonfuls of sugar, three of lemon-juice, and three of brandy. Before covering the pies throw a dessert-spoonful of the mixture over the mince, then bake in the usual way. This addition will enrich the pies. Egg Pie.—Take one pound of good beef Buet, shred it fine, one pound of currants well washed and picked, twelve hard-boiled eggs, a little cinnamon or nutmeg, and a Little cream. Beat all together, put the mixture into a pie- dish and bake with an edging of puff paste for thiee-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, about 28. 6d. Egg-powder Cake.—Egg-powder, as it is called, is a vegetable compound, intended to serve as a substitute for eggs, to four of which one penny packet professes to be equivalent in cake-making, and sufficient to add to two pounds of flour. Some cooks, however, think it best to use it in addition to eggs. The powder is first jnixed with the flour, and then water or milk is added for plum, batter, and other pud- dings, cakes, pancakes, &c. For a cake, mix well together one quartern of flour, half a pound of butter, two ounces of sweet pork lard, three- quarters of a pound of well-washed currants, half a poimd of sugar, two packets of egg- powder, and three eggs. You may add mixed spices, grated nutmeg, and candied citron-peel, to your taste. When these are thoroughly 8tin-cd up together, with enough milk to bring the whole to a proper consistency, butter the inside of your cake-tin, put the cake in, and bake immediately. The top of the cake may be glazed with beat-up egg. Egg Salad.—Boil eight eggs hard, chop the yolks and whites separately; put a little salad into the dish, cover it with the eggs in layers. When done, make a hole in the middle and pour in the salad mixture. Egg Sandwiches.—Boil some eggs hard tw if for a salad. When quite cold, cut them into thin slices, sprinkle with pepper and salt, and place the slices between nicely-prepared "bread and butter. This is a convenient and de- licate pioparation for a journey taken in haste. Egg Sauce.—^Blend two ounces of good frewh butt(!r with a dessert-spoonful of flour ; put the mixture into a small saucepan with a wine- .glassf ul of water ; or, if the sauce be intended for salt fish, of the liquor in which the fish was boiled ; see that it is not too salt, a fault which a little milk or water will remedy. Simmer, but do not boil. When ready to boil, draw the saucepan from the fire, and stir in two ounces more of butter and two or three hard-boiled eggs cut small. Time, one minute to simmer. Probable cost, 6d. for this quantity. Egg Sauce for Calf's Head.—Take half a pint of veal or any white broth, thicken it with two ounces of butter blended with an ounce and a half of flour; add, when it boils, some minced parsley, three eggs boiled hard and chopped separately, yolks from whites, a little cayenne pepper, and a squeeze of lemon- juice. Take the sauce off the fire, and stir into it another ounce of butter. Serve in a tureen. If liked, the egg-whites only may be stirred into the sauce ; the hard yolks may be pressed through a wire sieve upon the meat. Eggs, Sunshiny.—Melt a little butter in an omelet pan, sprinkle salt upon it, and break into it one or more eggs according to the number required. Fry these over the fire for about two minutes till they are sufficiently poached, and be careful to turn up the edges to keep them from spreading too far. Before sending them to table sprinkle pepper over them, and cover them with tomato sauce. This dish is named by Italians egg in purgatory. Eggs prepared in the same way, and sprinkled over with grated parmesan or gruyere cheese, are named eggs in moonshine. Egg Toast.—Place a bowl containing three ounces of good butter in boiling water, and stir imtil the butter is quite melted; mix it with f our well-beaten eggs, and put them together into a saucepan, keeping it moving round in one direction until the mixture becomes heated; then pour it quickly into a basin, and back again into the saucepan. Repeat this until it is hot, but on no account must it be boiling. Have ready some slices of- buttered toast, lay the mixture of egg thickly over, and serve very hot. Time, about five minutes. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for two persons. Egg Vol-au-Vents.—Mince two trujSes and put them into a stewpan with two "table- spoonfuls of thick cream; add four eggs that have boiled twenty minutes, chop them smaJl; season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Have ready some paste-cases, and when the mixture has simmered five minutes, fill them and serve hot. Sufficient for six cases. Egg Wine.—Boil together in a delicate saucepan one or two glasses of white wine, with half the quantity of water; sweeten to taste, and add a little nutmeg. Beat well in a basin one or two eggs, with a spoonful of cold water to each egg; pour the boUing wine very slowly into the basin, stirring steadily all the time, and then back into the saucepan. Hold the saucepan with one hand over the fire for only a minute, and stir with the other. Do not let the contents boil or they will be spoiled. Egg wine is often made without warming the egg, in which state it is lighter, if not so agi-eeable to the taste. Eggs (alaBonneFemme).—Get six eggs of the same size, large ones, boil thorn ten minutes, and when cool enough, remove the shcUs care- fully. Divide them equally in halves, take out the yolks ajgid cut from each the pointed tip oi(196) EGG white that thoy may stand flatly, Mako till!/ dico of Horao cold chicken, Imin, boihjd boeti-oot, iind tho yolkb of tho ogge. Fill tho EQOS (k LA BONNE FBMUE). hollows with these up to the brim, and pile the dice high in the centre—two of ham and chicken, or separately, two of boiled beetroot, and two with the hard yolks. Arrange some neatly-cut lettuce on a dish, and place the eggs amongst it. Sufficient for three persona. Eggs (a la Carmelite).—Chop some sorrel, a little parsley, and two or three small boiled onions together; add the yolks of six hard- boiled eggs, chopped separately; season with pepper and salt, and mix with a little melted butter. Fill the whites of the eggs, which should be divided in halves, lengthways, with this mixture, and warm them thoroughly in a white sauce composed of two ounces of butter and a quarter of a pint of cream, with a blade of mace to flavour. If flour be used it should be only sufficient to prevent tha butter from oiling. Serve with a little lemon-juice squeezed into the sauce. Time, twenty minutes to boil eggs. Probable cost, Is. 4d. Eggs (a la Creme).—^To five or six eggs that have been well whipped to a froth add gradually half a pint of cream, and, while mixing, flavour with a tea-spoonful of salt. Butter a mould and pour in the mixture. It may be baked gently in the oven tiU set, or placed over a pan of boiling water. When turned out of the mould, a rich brown gravy should be poured round it. Probable cost, 2s. Eggs (a la Duchesse).—Flavour one quart of milk withvaniUa or orange-flower water; or, if preferred, boil it with lemon rind, cinnamon, and laurel-leaves till the flavour is extracted; sweeten to taste, and when boiling have ready tho whites of four eggs beaten to a froth. Drop these from a spoon into the boiling nulk, turn the eggs until they are done, and then place them to drain. Send them to table in a glass dish, with a custard made with the yolks and some of the milk (with additional flavouring if required) poured over them. Time, two minuter to poach the whites. Probable cost, 9d. Suffi- cient for four or five persons. Eggs la Fran9aise).—A very common and simple mode of dressing eggs is to slide them as if for poaching on to a well-buttered tin dish, and set them over the fire or in an oven until the whites are set. This is a favourite way of cooking thom in France and Germany, where eggs are plentiful and cheap. Time, four or iWo nunutcs to dress. Eggs {k la Gruyfere).—Melt a quarter of a pound of G-ruy ero cheese in a stowpan over a hIow fire, with a small quantity of butter, a quarter of a pint of veal stock, a seasoning of linoly-minced chives, parsley, grated nutmeg, and salt. Add, as soon as the cheese has been well stirred with tho other ingredients, four well-beaten eggs, and stir till the herbs are sufficiently done. Servo with sippets of toasted bread. Eggs (a ritalienne).—Break seven or eight eggs into a saucepan, with a bit of butter in it. Add the juice of a lemon, a glass of white wine, enough pounded sugar to make thom decidedly sweet, a pinch of salt, and any approved fla- vouring, as orange-flower water or cura(^a. Then proceed exactly as with scrambled eggs {see Eggs, Scrambled). When they are set without being hard, pile them on a hot dish, dust them well with sugar, and candy it a little either under a salamander or with a red- hot fire shovel. Eggs (a la Maitre d'Hotel).—Slice and fry some Spanish onions in butter, but do not let them brown. Add a little flour, some hot milk, chopped parsley, salt, and white pepper, and let the sauce thicken. Cut some eggs that have been boiled for ten minutes into quarters, lay them into the sauce, and when hot, arrange the eggs neatly in a dish and pour the sauce over them. Eggs (a la Tripe).—Cut half a dozen onions in slices, let them fall into rings, and fry them in butter, without browning them. Take them up and put them aside. Mix a spoonful of flour with the butter to make a paste, and add milk or broth to make a smooth thick sauce. Put in the onions and stew them gently till tender. Remove the shells from the eggs, slice the white parts, and leave the yolks whole. Put the sUced whites into the sauce with the onions till hot. Serve in a hot dish and garnish with the uncut egg- yolks. Eggs (a la Tripe). Another way.—Boil six eggs for ten minutes, and throw them into cold water. Boil two Portugal onions. When partly done, change the water, and when quite done, peel and slice them. Simmer the slices of onion for another half-hour in milk, and add a bit of butter rolled in flour. Slice the eggs lengthways, and stir the sauce until it is smooth and as thick as cream, then put in the egg. Garnish the dish with sippets of toast, and serve with some newly-made mustard. Time to boil onions, two hours or more. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for three or four persons. Eggs (a la Tripe). Another way.—BoU eight eggs hard, remove the yolks without breaking, and cut up the whites to a mine*. Lay the yolks in the middle of a dish, and the whites roxmdthem. Have ready some bechamel sauce, add a dessert-spoonful of "finely-cut parsley, and when hot, throw it over the eggs. Send to table garnished with croutons fried, or leaves of puff paste Time, ten minutes-to boU eggs. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Sufficiont for four or five persons.(197) EGG Eggs and Asparagus.—Cut a slice of bread to suit a dish, toast imd butter it while quite hot, then lay it on the dish, and keep both wai-m by the side of the fire. Have ready six well-beaten eggs, add a little salt and {)epper, and put them into a saucepan with a map of buttei-. Beat the eggs until they have lost their fluid state, then spread them over the toast with asparagus, boiled and cut small. Laid oa the top of the eggs. Time, half an hour to prepare. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Suffi- cient for two or more persons. Eggs and Asparagus (another way). —Boil some nice young asparagus, and cut it into pieces as nearly as possible like peas. Have ready four eggs well beaten, and flavoured with pepper and salt. Put the asparagus with them and stir gently; then dissolve two ounces of butter in a stewpan, and stir the mixture until it is thick. Serve on toast. Time to boU asparagus, fifteen to eighteen minutes after the water boils; to stew with the eggs, two or three minutes. Sufficient for two persons. Eggs and Bread.—Take a penny loaf, soak it in a quart of milk for two hours, or till the bread is soft. Put to it two table- spoonfuls of orange-fiower water or rose-water; sweeten it, and grate into it a little nutmeg. Take a dish and butter the bottom of it, break in as many eggs as will cover the bottom, pour in the bread and milk, beat all briskly with a fork, and bake in a well-heated oven for half an hour. Eggs and Burnt Butter.—Prepare half a dozen eggs as if for poaching, by breaking each one separately into a cup. Brown three ounces of butter in a large frying-pan, and slide the eggs from the cups into it; when they have well set, ladle the burnt butter over them, and sprinkle salt and some nutmeg. Serve on toast wetted with vinegar. Time, from two and a half to three and a half minutes, according to size of eggs. Sufficient, two eggs for each person. Eggs and Celery.—Put into a stewpan four heads of celery that have been previously cut into short pieces, and boUed till nearly done in salt and water. Stew the celery for five minutes with three table-spoonfuls of cream and half a table-spoonful of vinegar. Season according to taste with salt and white pepper. Place the celery on a dish, and serve poached eggs neatly on the top of it. Garnish with slices of hard- boiled eggs. Time, half an hour or more to boil celery. Sufficient for five or six poached eggs. Probable cost. Is. 3d. Eggs and Cucumber.—Put three ounces of butter into a stewpan, and let it dissolve. Peel, quarter, and cut into slices three small cucumbers, and shred some young onions; add these to the butter, flavour with pepper and salt, and throw in half a table-spoonful of vinegar. When the mixture has simmered ten minutes, have ready slices of six hard-boiled 6gg8, which warm up for two minutes longer, stirring in a table-spoonful of cream just before serving. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Sufficient for three or four persona. Eggs and Garlic.—Pound ten cloves of garlic that have been boiled for twenty minutes— the water having been changed during the boil- ing—with a couple of anchovies; put them, when well pounded, into a stewpan, and add two table- spoonfuls of oil, the beaten yolks of two eggs, a table-spoonful of vinegar, some pepper and salt, and mix all together while being heated. Put the mixture on a dish, and serve with sliced hard-boiled eggs. Four eggs will cut slices enough for this dish. Time, ten minutes to dress eggs; two or three minutes to warm the mixture. Sufficient, two eggs to each person. E^gs and Gravy.—Put a young well- fed fowl into a stewpan with four ounces of butter, some spice, a faggot of herbs, and half a dozen small onions, let it brown slightly and equally; add half a pint of stock, close the lid tightly, and finish the cooking over a very slow fire. Parboil the liver of the fowl in some good gravy, remove it, and poach half a dozen eggs in the same liquor. Rub down the liver to a paste, and use it to thicken the gravy in which the fowl has been stewed. Place the fowl on a hot dish, with balls of spinach round it; lay a poached egg on each ball, flattening it with the back of the slice; pour the gravy over the fowl, and serve hot. Time, one hour to stew the fowl. Eggs and Milk.—Beat six eggs with two ounces of loaf sugar and a pint of milk; put the whole into a pie-dish, which set for three- quarters of an hour in a bain-marie. When done, sprinkle it with powdered sugar, pass the red-hot shovel over the top, and serve either hot or cold. Eggs and Mushrooms.—Cut oS the ends and stalks from half a pint of mushroom buttons, put them into a basin of water with a little lemon-juice as they are done. Drain and slice them with some large onions, which fry in butter. If liked the onions can be omitted, and the mushrooms can be stewed whole. Put the mushrooms when tender on a dish, break some eggs upon them to cover the surface, and in doing this be careful not to break the yolks of the eggs. Season with salt and pepper, sprinkle browned crumbs on the top, and put the dish in a hot oven till the eggs are set. Serve immediately. Time to stew mushrooms, from ten to fifteen minutes. Probable cost of mushrooms, Is. to 2s. per pint. Eggs and Onions.—Fry some onions, nicely sliced, in butter; put a rather large sprinkling of cayenne pepper over them. Drain them from the butter, and put them on a dish before the fire to dry a little. Press out the juice of a lemon over them, and then lay nicely- poached eggs on the top. Serve very hot. Time to fry onions, five minutes; to poach eggs, three to four minutes. Six eggs sufficient for three persons. Eggs and Potatoes.—Boil seven or eight floury potatoes and mash them while quite hot; add one ounce of butter, the yolk of an egg, pepper, and salt, and, if liked, a little pounded onion, and boiled minced parsley. Roll the potatoes into egg-like shape, brush them over( 198 ) EGG with beaten egg, and cover with fine bread- crumbs, well seasoned with salt and white pepper. Put thorn into an oven to brown, or fry in lard or dripping till tlvoy are of a fine brown colour; lay theiu boforo the tire to drain, if fried, and serve garnished with fried parsley. Time, half an hour to boil pottitoos. Probal/le cost, Id. to 2d. per pound. Allow one pound for three persons. Eggs and Sauce.—Chop finely a tea- spoonful each of parsley and chives, and put them into a stewpan, with two ounces of butter and a little flour; add a glass of sherry, a tea- spoonful of salt, and half the quantity of pei^per. When the sauce has simmered about ten minutes, have ready half a dozen poached eggs; lay them on toast, and send to table with the sauce poured round. Sufficient sauce for six eggs. Probable cost. Is., without wine. Eggs and Sauce Robert.—Boil twelve eggs tor fifteen minutes, quarter them, after removing the shells, and have ready the above sauce, in which the eggs should be placed just long enough to heat them thoroughly; gently mix them with the sauce, that they may not get broken, and serve hot {see Eobert Sauce). Allow two eggs for each person. Eggs and Sorrel.—Like spinach, sorrel requires much washing to clear it from grit. When well drained, cut up enough nice leaves to fill a pint, and either stew them in an earthen- ware jar in a cool oven, or in a stewpan with two oimces of dissolved butter, pepper, and salt. While the sorrel is stewing, boil four eggs hard and bruise the yolks with a quarter of a pint of cream, and when it is tender, stir the mixture into it by degrees. Serve, turned out smooth on a dish, with hard-boiled eggs (allow six for this quantity of sorrel), quartered and arranged over and round it. Time, about twenty-five minutes to prepare. Sxifficient for three per- sons {see also Eggs and Spinach, or Sorrel). Eggs tvUd Spinach. —Prepare some spinach by washing very carefully, and then boiling tiU tender. Put into cold water to keep the colour good, and when quite cold, press the water out of it, a little at a time, in a towel. Chop it .very fine, and put it into a stewpan with a lump of butter and some rich gravj'. Boil it quickly in this, and add pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Or it may be stewed with cream and a little sugar, which is a very delicate method. Poach six eggs, and trim them neatly. Serve them upon the spinach. Time, ten to fifteen minutes to boil; five minutes to stew. Pro- bable cost, 2d. per pound. Sufficient for three persons. Eggs and Spinacli, or Sorrel.—Poach not quite new-laid eggs, rut some boiling water into a clean frying-pan, and when it boils up, draw the pan aside and slip into it egg after egg, previously broken into cups ; add a table-spoon- ful of vinegar, if liked, to the water, and simrner till the white is set, then remove with a slice, trim, and lay the eggs on the spinach. A tin egg- poacher is an assistance to an inexperienced cook in this delicate operation. Break an egg into each perforated cup, and place the machine in a etewpan of boiling water; the eggs are easily slipped out as soon as done. To those who like acids, sorrel may be used instead of sijinach. S(!rv() cither under the poached eggs. 'J'inie to poach eggs, two and a half Uj three nuiiutes. Two eggs sufficient for one person. Eggs and White Sauce.-Cut five hard- boilod uggs in liitlves, so as to form cu^js of the whites when the yolk is removed. Mix the yolks to a jjastt! with a table-spoonful of cream and an ounc;e of butt(ir ; add to it a tea-Hj>oonf ul of minced onion and parsley, and when wcU flavoured with salt and (•ayeune, fill the whites and set them over steam till quitfi hot. Pare off the pointed tips, as before directed {nee Eggs a la Bonne Femme), that they may stand steadily on the dish. Serve in white sauce. Time, ten minutes to boil eggs. Eggs, as Snow.—Separate the yoUcs from the whites of six eggs. Beat the whites to a froth, with a little finely-powdered sugar. Have ready a full pint of new milk well sweetened and flavoured with vanilla, orange-flower water, or rose-water. When it boils, drop in, one by one, table-spoonfuls of the frothed egg, and when set, remove each with a shce. By vary- ing the quantity dropped in, a handsomer dish will be obtained than by keeping to one uniform size. Arrange the patches of snow on a large dish, and group the large ones in the centre. If the milk has cooled a little, mix the egg-yolks slowly and very gradually with it till all is used, and it has become thick. Pour this amongst and around, but not over the snow. Serve cold as a supper dish. Eggs (au Gratin).—Chop very fine an an- chovy, an eschalot, and a sprig of parsley, and mix them with three yolks of eggs to a small cupful of bread-crumbs and two ounces of butter; season with salt and pepper. Have ready a hot dish ; butter it well, and strew the mixture over the bottom. Place the dish in a Dutch oven, and brown it slightly; then break half a dozen eggs into separate cups and slide them neatly on to the dish, after which return it to the oven for three minutes, or until the whites have set. Serve immediately. Pro- bable cost, Is. 3d. Sufficient for three persons. Eggs (au IVIiroir).—Spread butter upon a dish that can be set on the fire; break the egg over it, adding salt, pepper, and two spoonfuls of milk; place it on a slow fire, with a red-hot shovel over it, and serve when the eggs are set. Or, cut some asp'aragus tops into nieces like peas; boil them a quarter of an hour, then take them out, and put them into a ste•^^^)an, -w-ith a bunch of parsley, chives, and a piece of butter; set them over a slow fire, put in a pinch of flour, add a Httle water, and let them stew, seasoning I with salt and sugar. When done, put them I into the dish they are to be served in, and break over them some eggs, seasoned with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Set them for a short time over the fire, press a red-hot shovel over, and serve the yolks soft. Eggs, Beating.—This is best done with rods of wood in a shallow, flat-bottomed pan; bestow the beating with short, quick, down- ward strokes, ^^nthout moving the elbow, which shoiUd be kepi close to the side. When theEGG EGG ( IW) foaming and bubbles disappear, and the beaten eggs assume the appearance which has been •well described as that of a rich boiled custard, your task will have been very well accomplished. Kent's egg-beater is an excellent Uttlo instru- ment which greatly facilitates this process. Eggs, Blancmange of .—Empty four or five large eggs by making a small opening at one end. "Wash them with a little warm water, and then drain dry. Fix them steadily into egg-cups, or put them in a dish fiUed with rice or sago, and fiU ^vith blancmange by the same apertiu-e through which the egg contents escaped. Do not disturb them till quite cold. Carefully remove the shells, and serve the blanc- mange eggs in a glass dish with a coloured cream around them, or shred a lemon or orange into the lightest of fine strips, and lay them amongst it. Eggs, Boiled.—The lightest preparation of eggs is to simply boil them three minutes, when the white will be slightly coagulated, and the yolk will retain its fluid state. A new-laid egg will reqiiire longer boiling than a stale one. Four minutes is not too long to get the white well set of a quite fresh egg, while three minutes will be generally sufficient for one more advanced. Machines may be bought for this purpose, and an egg boiled at the breakfast- table by one of these simple tin machiaes will not faU to give satisfaction. Eggs, Boiled, Hard.—An egg may be boiled hard in from five to ten minutes, but to boil them mealy (which is the lightest prepara- tion next to only boiling them long enough to set the white) allow one whole hour. The experiment should be tested by those who are not aware of the result. It- transforms the hard-boiled egg into a digestible article of food. Eggs, Broiled.—Cut a slice the whole roima of a quartern loaf, toast it lightly, trim the edges, and lay it on a dish before the fire, with some bits of butter placed over it. When this melts, break and spread carefully six or eight eggs on the toast. Have ready a sala- mander, and when the eggs are sufficiently done, squeeze a Heville orange and grate some nutmeg over them. Time, till the eggs are set. Probable cost, lOd. to Is. Eggs, Buttered.—Brown some butter ra a frj-ing-pan, and break five eggs upon a dish, as if for poaching, with a seasoning of salt and nutmeg; pour some of the butter, in its boiling state, over them^ and move them gently to get all the butter about them; put the dish by the fire to keep hot, and finish browning the eggs with a red-hot shovel if you have no salamander. Time to brown butter, &c., about ten minutes. Probable cost, 7d. Sufficient for one dish. Eggs, Buttered (another way).—Put three ounces of butter into a basin, place it in boiling water, and stir till molted; add eight eggs, well beaten, and pour both together into a well-lined saucepan. When the eggs and butter have been held long enough over a gentle fire to warm, throw them back into the basin and again into the saucepan ; do this two W three times, that they may get thoroughly I blended. Keep the mixture stirred one way till hot, but do not let it boil, or it will curdle. Cut slices of broad, toast, and butter them whUe hot. Serve with the buttered eggs on the top. Time, about five minutes to make the eggs hot. Probable cost, Is. 4d. Sufficient for four persons. Eggs Cooked without Boiling.—By this very simple process eggs are said to be lighter and better adapted to delicate stomachs than by the old and general plan of boiling. Proceed as follows:—Heat a basin with boiKng water till it is thoroughly hot; then throw oft' the water and put the eggs to be cooked into it, moving them round so that every part shall receive the heat. Have reaiy a kettle of boiling water, pour this over the eggs, and cover the basin to prevent any steam from escaping. In twelve minutes they will be perfectly cooked. Eggs, Curried.—Fry a couple of middle- sized onions in butter, and stir into the pan, as soon as the onions are slightly browned, one table-spoonful of curry-powder. Mix well, and add by degrees half a pint of veal stock; keep stirring the sauce imtU it is smooth and thick. When the mixture has simmered from ten to fifteen minutes, add, carefully stirring, two table-spoonfuls of cream, and let it simmer a few minutes longer. Have ready sliced half a dozen hard-boiled eggs, lay them in the curry sauce long enough to get quite hot, then serve both together on a dish. Time, half an hour to pre- pare ; eight or ten minutes to boil eggs. Suffi- cient, two eggs for each person. Eggs, Devilled.—Cut four hard-boiled eggs into halves, remove the yolks without breaking the whites; mix the yolks with a tea-spoonful of anchovy sauce, a little cayenne pepper and salt, and fill the white-cups with it; set them to stand, by cutting off the pointed tip, on a dish, surround them with small cress and finely-cut lettuce. Time, fifteen minutes to boil eggs. Eggs, Dished.—Take a strong earthem or a metal dish. Butter the inside well. Break into it, without damaging the yolks, as many eggs as it will hold without their lying one upon the other. On the top of each drop pepper, salt, and a little bit of butter. Set them into the oven upon the stove, or in an American oven before the fire; watch their progress, and as soon as the butter is all melted, and the whites well set, serve. The heat of the dish will cook them a little more after they are taken from the oven. Eggs so done are often preferable to fried eggs. They are free from the tough brown under-surface to which the latter are liable, which also is indigestible, even when it is rather crisp than homy. Eggs (en Marinade).—Mix equal quan- tities of water and good veal gravy, two table- spoonfuls of each, with a tea-spoonful of vinegar and a seasoning of pepper and salt; put it into a stewpan, and stir in gradually two well-beaten yolks of eggs. When it thickens, and before it boils, have ready half a dozen nicely-poached eggs, and pour the sauce over them. -Garnish with parsley. Time, ton minutes to prepare. Sufficient for three persons.( 200 ) EGG Eggs (for Salad).—Roinovo the ahollB care- fully iiom flix hard-boilod eggs, cut them in hiilvos lengthwise, and carofuUy take out the yolks. Pound these with two ounces of liam, one ounce of anchovies, the same of voul and fat bacon, salt, cayenne, and mace to taste, add ' also a spoonful of minced sweet herbs, and one of parsley. Fill the eggs neatly with this t forcemeat, smooth thorn to a round shape with ' the blade of a largo knife, and placte a star of beetroot upon each one. When thus prepared use thorn to garnisli salad. If preferred, tlie eggs can bo put on a dish, and served with well-flavoured brown Siiuce poured round them. In this case they may be garnished with fried sippets. Eggs for Supper.—Boatupsixeggs, yolks and whites, add to them two or three young onions and some parsley shred very fine; season with salt and pepper. Mix the above with equal quantities of melted butter and grated cheese, about two ounces of each, and fry lightly, stirring the mixture briskly while in the pan (see Omelet). Time, six to eight minutes to fry. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for two or iixree persons. Eggs for Supper (another way).—Take a little nicely-flavoured brown gravy, and put it into a shallow pie-dish which has been well buttered. Place it in the oven, and let it remain until it boils, then take it out and break into it as many eggs as will lie side by side together. Sprinkle seasoned bread-crumbs over all, and place the dish again in the oven until the eggs are set. Have ready one or two rounds of toast. Take the eggs up carefully with a slice, lay them on the toast, pour the gravy over all, and servo hot. Eggs Fricasseed.—Boil three eggs hard, and lay them in cold water. Melt a slice of butter in a stewpan, and throw in a small onion finely chopped; fry tUl soft. Mix a dessert- spoonful of flour with the butter to a smooth paste, add two table-spoonfuls of gravy, and stir till thick. Cut the eggs into quarters, and lay them gently in the gravy. Shake the pan round, then throw in a small cupful of cream, shake the pan again, but do not break the eggs. When the sauce is thick and fine, put the eggs on a dish, and serve with the sauce thrown over, and a garnish of lemon round the dish. Time: ten minutes to boil eggs, ten minutes to prepare the fricassee. Probable cost, Is. 3d. Eggs, Fricasseed (another way).—BoU eight eggs fifteen minutes, take off the shells and cut the white parts of them in two length- wise. Preserve the yolks whole, and put them in the middle of a dish, cut the whites into fine strips, or any other shape liked, and lay them roimd; pour white sauce over, or a mixture of mustard and melted butter, and serve hot. Probable cost. Is. Sufficient for four persons. Eggs, Fricasseed, White—Boil six eggs hard, and slice them, each egg into half a dozen slices. Make a sauce as follows :—Chop some parsley, a piece of shallot, and a few mushrooms, all very finely; put these into a stewpan with two ounces of butter, add salt and pepper, and stew, but do not brown till quit.; done. Thicken with flour mixed with a small cupful of cream. Lay the slices of egg in; give the whole a boil, and serve. This fricass*;.' may be varied by substituting a good, rich brown gravy for the cream. Time, ten to fifteen uunutes to Ijoil the eggs. Probable cost, Is. 8d. for this quiintity. Sufficient for thrt-i! or four persons. Eggs, Pried.—The frying-pan should b. scrupulously clean, or the white part of the eg>' will Ije spoiled. Dripping, butter, or oil mn bo used. Break the eggs first into a cup, anil slip each one into the jjan as soon as it is hot. As the eggs fry raise their edges with a 6hc<. give them a slight shake, and ladle a little oi the butter over the yolk. In two or thit> minutes they wiU be done; take them out will, the slice, pare off the rough edges, and draii. from the greasy moisture. Serve on slices oi bacon, or lay them in the middle of a disli -with bacon or ham as a garnish. Probable cost. Id. to 2d. each. Allow two eggs for one person. Eggs, Fried (another way).—Break the eggs into a pan of boiling fat, one by one, and fry them, taking care that the yolks do not harden. Serve them with white sauce or gravy, or with a forcemeat of sorrel. Eggs j Frothed.—Mix the juice of a lemon with a teble-spoonful of water, and beat up with it the yolks of eight eggs and the whites of four. Sweeten to taste, and add a pinch of salt. Put the mixture into an omelet-pan and fry carefully. Have ready four whites of eggs whipped with a pound of fine sugar to a high froth, and flavoured with vanilla or lemon. Place the omelet on a dish, and heap the frothed egg over it. Brown it lightly in an oven or before the fire. Time to frj-, about five minutes. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Sufficient for four persons. Eggs in Paper Cases.—Make a season- ing with a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, one of green onions, a clove of garlic, some pepper, salt, and a cupful of fine bread-crumbs. Have ready some small paper cases; dissolve some butter and paint them with a small brush till they are lined thickly with it, then sprinkle a little seasoning into each. Break six eggs singly into a cup, and put one on the top of the crumbs in each case, and cover with more. Bake in a gentle oven until the eggs are set. Serve in the cases. If preferred, the eg^s can be baked in small moulds, and can be turned on a dish for serving. Eggs, Jumbled,—Break four eggs into a stewpan with two oimces of butter and a season- ing of salt and pepper; let them set over a clear fire, and stir till the mixture becomes rather solid ; then remove, and sorv'c with or without a ragoCit of vegetables, celery, lettut!e, spinach, sorrel, or asparagus tops. If neither be liked, send to table upon slices of hot buttered toast. Time, five minutes. Probable cost, without vegetables, 6d. Sufficient for three or four persons.EGG EGG (201 ) Eggs, Jumbled (another way) .-Break six o7 mSro eggs into a basin, and beat thorn with a table-spoonful of gravy and a flavouring of pepper and salt. If wanted, very good minced tiniffles, mushrooms, ham, or tongue may be added. Put a piece of butter into a stewpan, pour in the eggs, and stir till they are suiiiciently done. This is an exceedingly con- venient and agreeable breakfast dish. It re- quires very Uttle time to cook, and may be varied according to taste. It is usually served on toast hot and buttered. Time, about five minutes. AUow two eggs for each person. Eggs, Liaison of, for Thickening Sauces.—^Vhen eggs are used for thickening great care is required to keep the sauce from boiling, and the least cessation from stirrmg during the heating process wiU spoil the whole contents of the saucepan. Make a liaison as follows:—Beat well the yolks of three eggs, and add to them three small wine-glassfuls of cream or two and a haK glassfuls of milk. ^Vhen well mixed, strain through a sieve. Eggs, Pickled.—Remove the shells from three or 'four dozen hard-boiled eggs; do not break them, but arrange carefully in large- mouthed jars. Boil one pint of vinegar, with allspice, ginger, and a couple of cloves of garlic. When the flavour of the spice is extracted, add another pint of vinegar, bring it to a boil, and pour scalding hot over the eggs. When cold, seal up the jars for a month. This will be found a cheap pickle when eggs are plentiful, and for its piquancy is much liked. Eggs, Plover's.—These eggs are much esteemed for their rich flavour, and the beau- tiful colour of the white part, which is much used for decorating salads. When boiled hard they are eaten hot or cold; but with a good brown gravy or some bechamel sauce they make a dainty breakfast dish. Eggs, Poached.—Put a pint of water into a stewpan, with four tea-spoonfuls of vinegar, and half a tea-spoonful of salt; place it over the fire, and while boiling break the eggs into it near the surface of the water, and let it boil gently about three minutes. Lay upon a dish a thin piece of toasted bread; take the eggs out carefully with a small slice, and lay the slice with the eggs upon a cloth for a second, to drain the water from them; then set them carefully upon the toast, and serve very hot. Much depends upon the careful breaking and boiling of the eggs. If the yolk separates from the white, it may be presumed that the egg is not fresh, but it may be eatable, for the same thing may happen through awkwardness in poaching. Again, the toast upon which the eggs are served may be buttered either with plain butter, or two small pats of butter may be melted, without boiling, and poured over. To prevent the imsightly admixture of the yolk with the white, the following simple method is recommended:—Use a large stewpan, nearly filled with boiling water; pour two table-spoonfuls of hot water into a saucer, and break the egg carefully in the centre of the, saucer, then gpntly lift it, and place it on the surface of the water in the stewpan; the instant the yolk sets, take out the saucer, and remove the egg with a slice to the dish required. Eggs, Poached (another way).—Kemove the slSa from a boiled or roast chicken, and pound the meat in a mortar with two ounces of good fresh butter. Bind it with the beaten yolk of an egg, put it in a mould, and surround it with boiling water till hot through. Have ready a slice of bread nicely fried in butter, and four or five eggs poached. When the chicken mixture is hot, place it on a dish with the eggs over it, and the sippets of fried bread with sKces of fried mushroom arranged alter- nately as a garnish. Time, ten to twelve minutes; to poach eggs, about three minutes and a half. Sufficient for three or four persons. Eggs, Poached in Gravy.—Take quite fresh eggs, break half a dozen into separate tea-cups, and slip each very gently into a stew- pan of boiling water, one pint in quantity, to which has been added a wine-glassful of vinegar and a tea-spoonful of salt, previously boiled, but set to cool. Put the stewpan over the fire, and as the eggs set, remove them with a slice into a large flat dish, and be very careful not to break them. Trim, drain, and serve them in a rich brown gravy. Probable cost, 7d. or 8d. Sufficient for three persona. Eggs, Poached with Cream.—Put half a gill of cream into a small saucepan, and season it with salt, pepper, and pounded sugar to taste. Let it warm gradually, and when ready to boil, remove it from the fire and stir in an ounce of butter; keep moving the saucepan round until the butter is dissolved. Have ready four or five fresh eggs poached; lay them on a dish, pour the sauce quickly over, and serve. Time, three to four minutes to poach the eggs. Probable cost, 9d. Allow two eggs for each person. Eggs, Potted.—Pound the hard-boiled yolks of twelve eggs with anchovy sauce. Mix them to a paste with two ounces of good fresh butter, and season with two tea-spoonfuls of salt and one of white pepper. Have ready some small pots, and chop the whites of the eggs very smaU. As the pots are being filled with the paste, strew in the chopped whites, and cover over the tops with clarified butter. These eggs will not keep long. Probable cost, Is. 6d. for this quantity. Eggs, Preserved.—^Whatever process be adopted, the eggs should always be newly laid. A solution of gum arable, if not too expensive, will be found to answer well. Smear the eggs thoroughly, and, when dry, cover with powdered charcoal, bran, or saw- dust. They may also be preserved by plung- ing them in a net in boiling water for about twenty seconds, and then packing in bran, &c. To keep a longer time, make a solution of quick-lijne, salt, and cream of tartar, in the proportion of three poimds of lime, one ounce of cream of tartar, and half a pound of salt, to about five or six quarts of boiling water. When quite cold, cover the eggs with the solution, and throw a thick covering over the vessel. Salt, as in all cases of food preservation,EGG EGG ( 202 ) Ib good here. Cover the bottom of a box or barrel with suit, and lay in as many oggs as it will take without touching each other. Throw in salt, finely powdered, enough to lill up the spaces between the eggs, and to make another layer or cover. Continue to place oggs and salt alternately, and let the top bo at least an inch deep of salt; press the salt down firmly, that no air shall enter to the eggs, and cover with a cloth and a tight-fitting lid. Store in a dry, cool place. Eggs, Puree of.—Boil seven eggs hard; take on the whites, chop them very small and put them aside. Pound the yolks in a moi-tar; add to them rather less than two ounces of good fresh butter, a little chopped parsley, and a seasoning of salt and pepper. Bind with the beaten yolks of three uncooked eggs, and pass the mixture thi-ough a colander into the middle of a dish. Put the minced whites into a stew- pan with half a pint of gravy, and stir till thickish, then pour it round the yolks, and garnish with sippets of bread, which should be brushed over with egg. Brown slightly, either in a Dutch oven or before the fire, and serve hot. Time, ten minutes to boil the eggs. Suffi- cient for three persons. Eggs, Ragout of.—Boil twelve eggs hard, and -with a small knife carefully divide the whites lengthways into halves, taking care to keep the yolks whole and the whites unbroken. Pla.ce the yolks and whites in nice order in a dish, the hollow parts of the whites uppermost, and fill them as high as possible with fried bread-crumbs. Now make a sauce as follows : Boil half an ounce of truffles and morels in three or four table-spoonfuls of water, and chop them very fine with a quarter of a pint of pickled mushrooms. Mince some parsley, boil it in the water saved from the truffles, add three more table-spoonfuls of water, a gDI of red wine, a spoonful of ketchup, a Uttle grated nutmeg and mace, with a bit of butter rolled in flour; boij. all together, and throw the mixture over the eggs. Eggs, Savoury.—Put two ounces of butter into a stewpan, first rubbing the bottom of it with a clove of garlic. When the butter has become very hot, stir in five eggs previously well beaten, and seasoned with salt, pepper, and a grain of cayenne; continue to stir quickly till done, and send to table on a hot dish. Time, about four minutes. Probable cost, 8d. Sufflcient for two persons. Eggs, Scrambled (American).—This dish differs very little in its mode of preparation from our "mumbled" or "jumbled" eggs. When the pan has been well oiled with good butter, put into it as many eggs as it wiU hold separately, that each yolk may be entire. When the whites have become slightly hard, stir from the bottom of the pan till done, adding a piece of butter, pepper, and salt. When done, the yolks should be separate from the whites although stirred together. Serve on hot buttered toast with anchovy sauce, potted meat, cheese, or fish spread over it first. The eggs should be of the consistency of butter. Kme, five minutes. Eggs, Sootoll.—Prepare a forcemeat of bread-crumbs, grated ham, an anchovy pounded, and mixed spices. Koll five liard-boiled eggs, freed from their shells, first into beaten egg,' and then into the forcemeat. Put some good dripping or krd into a frying-pan, and brown tlie eggs slightly in it, turning them round that all sides may lie done alike. Serve with good ricli gravy in a tureen. Time, ten minutes to boil the eggs. Probable cost, 8d. or lOd. ^ Eggs, Spun (Qiufs en Filagramme).— This preparation is used principally as a gar- nish for other sweet dishes. Prepare a syrup of iugar, white wine, and water, and l»eat up eight eggs with a dessert-spoonful of arrowroot. Boil tlie syrup in a large stewpan, and when it is quite hot, force the mixture of egg and arrow- root through a colander into the boiling syrup. It will harden immediately, and must be taken up, drained for a little time, and then piled on a dish. If eaten hot, serve at once. Probable cost. Is. 3d. Eggs, Steamed.—Break half a dozen eggs into separate cups, and have ready a well-but- tered dish, into which each egg should be placed carefully. Cover the dish to prevent the heat from escaping, and set it over a pan of boil- ing water, first putting smaU bits of butter lightly over the top of the eggs. When they are set sufficiently, sprinkle them with a little salt, and serve with fried ham or sausages. Time, about four minutes to set. Eggs, Swan's (en Salade).—Cut the eggs, when boiled hard {see Eggs, Swan's, to Boil), in halves, pound the yolks with an ounce and a half of good fresh butter, and season with minced herbs or shallot, cayenne, and salt; add two tea-spoonfuls of essence of anchovies, and the same of chiK -sdnegar. FiU the white halves with this mixture, and set them in a bowl of prepared salad, or ornament a lobster or German salad with them. Eggs, Swan's, To Boil.—Put the eggs into quite boiling water and let them stay with- out boiling for twenty minutes. See that the water quite covers them, then boil slowly for ii. quarter of an hour. Let them rest in the water five minutes before removing them, and cover them up while cooling. Swan's eggs retain their heat a long time. They should not be cut until quite cold, and should then be divided into halves lengthwise. Eggs, Turkey's, To Dress.—Choose those of the young bird for cooking in the shell. They may be known by their pale, almost white colour. The larger ones are excellent for poaching, and to serve in the composition of any dishes where eggs are required. Time, six minutes to boil, four to poach. Eggs, Whisked.—A common veire whisk, as represented in the engraving, is the best for this purpose. Break the eggs to be whisked separately (the yolks from the whiles), and remove the speck from each one with a three- pronged fork before commencing to whisk. Beat the yolks till they are light, and the whites till no liquid remains in the bowl: they should be a strong solid froth. Experience, however,ELD ( 203 ) ELE is the best guide for this culinary process. No time can be specified, as much depends on the steadiness of the person manipulating. EOO WHISKS. Elder.—The common elder-tree is found in all parts of Britain. Its berries and flowers are much used, as may be seen from the following recipes. We may mention, in addition, that an odorous water, used as a perfume, is prepared by distilling the flowers. Elder-wine is specially in demand about Christmas-time. It is gene- rally di'unk hot or mulled. In some parts of Germany, the poorer classes use the berries as an ingredient in soup. Elderberry Ketcliup, for Pish Sauce.—Pick a pint of ripe elderberries from the stalks, and put them into an earthen jar. Pour over them a pint of boiling vinegar, and let them remain in a cool oven aU night. Strain the liquor from the berries without squeezing them, and put it into a saucepan with an oimce of shallots, a blade of mace, an inch of whole ginger, a tea-spoonful of cloves, and a tea- spoonful of peppercorns. Boil for six or eight minutes, and bottle the ketchup, when cold, with the spices. Sufficient for one pint and a Wq]f of ketchup. Probable cost, Is. ELDBBBERKT. Elder Brandy.—Pick the berries when fully ripe. Have ready a press for drawing off the juice, and four hair-cloths somewhat broader than the press; lay one above another, having a hair-cloth between each layer, which must be laid very thin and pressed a little at first, and then more, till the press be drawn as close as possible. Now take out the berries, and press all the rest in like manner. Next take the pressed berries, break out all the lumps, put them into an open- headed vessel, and add as much liquor as wiU just c«ver them. Let them infuse for seven or eight days, then put the juice first drawn into a cask proper for it to be kept in, and add two gallons of malt spirits to every twenty gallons of elder-juice, which will effectually preserve it from becoming sour for two years at least. A Httle sugar and a few cloves make a great im- provement in the brandy. Elder-flower and Tarragon Vinegar. —Fill a bottle with the elder-flowers, and pour upon them as much vinegar as they will take let them rest for a fortnight, when the vinegar may be strained and put into bottles of smaller size. The fresh-gathered leaves of any sweet herb may be infused, and their flavour extracted in the same manner. Elder Rob.—Extract the juice from some elderberries by putting the fruit into a jar and setting it in water to boil until the berries are soft. Put half a poxind of good brown sugar with every pint of juice thus extracted, and boil the sugar and juice for a whole hour, skimming the liquid as it rises. Elder Tops, To Pickle.—About six inches of the tops of young elder sprouts, if cut at the right time—in the middle of April—will make a good pickle. The sprouts should be first blanched in boiling water, then pickled in vinegar, adding salt and white pepper. Elder Wine.—Take quite ripe berries, and after stripping them from the stalks, steep them for five or six days in a tub of water, pressing them frequently during the time. Squeeze out the juice, and pass it through a fine sieve into the vessel in which it is to be boiled; add to each gallon three pounds of good brown sugar, and to every four gallons half a pound of ginger, two ounces of cloves, and an ounce or more of allspice. Boil for rather more than half an hour, then pour the wine into a tub or open cask, put with it some yeast on a piece of toast, and cover it over to work for four or five days, at the end of which time skim and remove it to the cask to ferment. The vent-peg must be loose until the fermentation has ceased, when the cask may be tightly closed, and the wine, after two months' rest, will be good, but better a month or two later. A quart of brandy thrown into the cask when it is about to be sealed up wlU greatly improve the wine. Elder Wine (another way).—Boil twenty- five pounds of elderberries in eleven gallons of water for one hour, and add to them an ounce of allspice and two ounces of ginger. When boiled the full time, allow four pounds of sugar to a gallon: put the sugar into a tub, and throw the boiling liquid over it, straining and pressing all the juice from the fruit. Add a quarter of a pound of cream of tartar, and let the liquid stand in the same tub for two days; then remove it to a cask, and cover the bunghole with a tile. Stir the liquid every alternate day, and fill up as it wastes. When the fermentation has ceased, close up the barrel, and when it has rested four months, bottle for use. Brandy may be added when the cask is closed. Probable cost, 38. per gallon. Elecampane, or Candy Cake.—Boil any quantity of loaf sugar to candy heightfEND ( 204 ) EMP and colour it with cochinoiil until it is of tho proper tint. Whon it has Bufliciently boiled it will assume a whitish appoaranco, and may then bo poured out on a slab, and divided into Bcpiaros. Empress Pudding.—Take equal quan- tities of powdered sugar and butter, about six ounces of each. Turn the butter back to cream, mix four well-beaten yolks of eggs with it; add tho sugar, and when the whole is well mixed, throw in by degrees six ounces of flour, and boat all thoroughly together. Bake in a brisk oven in small cups; only half fill them, as tho batter will rise to tho top in baking. Servo witli c'innaTuon sauce. Time, twenty minutes to bake. Probable cost. Is. Sufficient for seven or eight persons. Empress Pudding (another way).—Put enough fresh milk in a well-lined saucepan to pulp half a pound of rice. Let the rice soften over a very slow fire, and, when quite done, add two ounces of butter and stir till it is dissolved. Set the rice by to cool: when it has cooled, stir in three well-beaten eggs. Put a layer of rice into a dish lined with puff paste, place a layer of any kind of jam over it, and fill up the dish alternately with rice and jam. This pudding may be eaten cold, in which case it should be served with a boiled custard poured over it. Bake in a moderate oven for three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for six or more persons. Endclifife Buns.—Take eighteen ounces of flour, six ounces of sugar, four ounces of butter, half an ounce of baking-powder, one egg, six ounces of currants or sultana raisins, and half a pint of new milk. Eub the powder into the flour, then rub in the butter, adding the sugar, currants, .or raisins, the egg—well beaten—and the milk. Mix all together, and bake in tins in a rather hot oven, tii'st sifting over the buns a little powdered sugar. Endive.—This plant has long been cul- tivated as a garden vegetable. The cut-leaved or " curled" endive is preferred for the table in this country, but the dwarf white Bata^dan endive is much more delicate and agreeable to the palate. The seed is usually sown in Britain from the middle of May to the end of June, and by a little care plants may be kept fit for use almost all the winter. rSENCH ENDrVB. EKGLISH ENDIVE. Endive (French method) .—Take half a dozen heads of endive for a dish, and choose those which are fresh and yellow. Strip away the outer leaves, and cut off the stalks to separate the other leaves, and wash the endive in several waters. This vegetable needs to bo wa.shed with scrupulous care, because it usually contains a good deal of grit. Tlirow tlie endive into a stewpan hidf filled with boiling water slightly salted, leave the pan uncovered, and boil quickly till the endive is tender. It will take about twenty-five minutes. Drain it in a colander, press all tlio moisture from it, and either chop it very finely or rub it thnjiigli a wire sieve. The latter method is to be preferred. Melt half an ounce of butter in a clean stewjjan, mix half an ounce of flour with it, beat it to a paste, add salt and pejjper, a tea-spoonful of white sugar, and a gill of cream. Stir the sauce till smooth and thick, put in the endive, and keep stirring till the pulp is firm enough to bo piled upon a dish, then serve with fried sippets round the endive. If liked, broth can be used instead of cream in making the sauce for the endive. Time to boil the endive, twenty- five minutes; to stew it with the sauce, about ten minutes. Probable cost of endive, 2d. per head. Sufficient for five or six persons. Endive, Dressed. — There are many varieties of endive: the green curled eort is principally used for salads. Those who like the bitterness of this vegetable will find it, when cooked according to the recipes here given, a wholesome and agreeable change during the summer. The green leaves may be boiled Uke those of any other vegetable, only changing the water twice to take off the bitterness. After boiling till tender, throw the endive into cold water for ten minutes; then squeeze out the water, and when dry chop and stew with butter, gravy, or, like spinach, beat it smooth, and serve round cutlets, or alone, with bread sippets as a garnish. Time to boil, half an hour. Probable cost, Id. to 2d. per head. Endive, Dressed,for Second Course. —Use salted water plentifully for this vege- table. Plunge the heads, after remo\Tng the green leaves, into it. When thoroughly free from grit and insects, boil qmckly, drain, and finely chop them. Put a pint of good stock or veal gravy into a stewpan, with half a dozen heads so prepared; add a tea-spoonful of pounded sugar and a little salt, and stew till tender. When ready to serve, thicken with butter and flour, and stir in a table-spoonful of lemon- j uice, or add a little Espagnole sauce, and serve with a fricandeau of veal; or with poached eggs on the top. Time, half an hour to boil; about five minutes to simmer in gravy. Probable cost. Id. to 2d. per head. Sufficient for three or four persons. Endive, Stewed.—Strip off the outer green leaves from half a dozen heads of endive. Use salted water plentifully, to dislodge the insects; soak the heads in it, then drain, and boil them twenty-five minutes in water salted slightly. Have ready a stewpan with an ounce of butter, and when the endive has been squeezed dry and the butter melted, put it into the pan, and add a salt-spoonful of salt, pepper, and a gill of cteam. Let all get thoroughly hot, and move tho contents of the pan while heating. Pro- bable cost. Id. to 2d. per head. Sufficient for three or four persons. Endive, with Veal Gravy.--Strip off the outer leaves from half a dozen heads of endive, and blanch the heads by throwing them into hot water and then into cold. Drain well,( 20o ) END EVE and stew until tender in good gravy, just enough to cover thorn. Add veloute sauce, or thicken with butter rolled in flour. Serve quite hot. Any highly-seasoned sauce would spoil the flavour of this vegetable. A little Bait and sugar to the gravy is all that is necessary. Time, from ten to fifteen minutes. Probable cost. Id. to 2d. per head. Suflicient for three or four persons. Endive, with Winter Salad..—An ornamental and wholesome dish of salad may be made in winter principally by the aid of this plant. Only a little cress, celery, and beetroot will be necessary to form a striking contrast to the crisp, blanched leaves of the endive, which may be arranged(«i bouquet)inihe centre, or interspersed with the other materials through the bowl. Endive may be had good from November till March. English Stew.—Stew for two hours three pounds of rump of beef, cut into small pieces and free from fat, in a quart of good stock or gravy. Season with a little cayenne and salt; then add a dessert-spoonful of lemon-juice, the grated rind of one large lemon, a table-spoonful of rice-flour, evenly mixed with three table- spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup and a tea- spoonful of soy. Stew for a quarter of an hour, when the dish will be ready to serve. This dish may be improved by a glass or two of port or white wine, or with any well-flavoured store sauce. Itmav be also garnished with sippets of fried bread, forcemeat balls, or young cucum- bers. A good cook will know how to vary English stew in twenty different ways, by introducing mushrooms, green peas, rice, half- boiled new potatoes, spiing carrots, or curry- powder. Sufficient for five or six persons. Epicurean Sauce-—This is a good sauce for fish, added to melted butter or any kind of gravy, and is made by mixing with half a pint of walnut ketchup an equal quantity of chili vinegar, and adding a pint and a half of mush- room ketchup, and three table-spoonfuls of Indian soy. Shake the ingredients well to- gether, and bottle for use. Probable cost, 2s. Erechtheum Pudding.—Put one pint of fresh milk into a basin, and add to it two table-spoonfuls of fine sugar, a pinch of salt, and half a dozen drops of essence of ratafia. Beat six new-laid eggs two or three minutes, then mix them with the milk in the basin. Put the mixture into a well-buttered mould, and place this in a stewpan containing boiling water. Let the water boil gently, and do not let it reach higher than half up the mould. As soon as the pudding is set and firm in the centre it is done. Serve, turned out of the mould, with a sauce made as follows:—Put two eggs, a dessert-spoonful of powdered sugar, and two drops of ratafia in a stewpan; warm »lightly—\es,s than half a minute will do this; then whisk to a firm froth, and pour it over the pudding. SuflJcient for two or three persons. Probable cost, Is. 3d. . Erfurt, or German Puddings.—This 18 a favourite sweet dish in Germany, and only requires a little care to be successfully made. Prepare as follows:—Make a batter of one pound of flour, three full dessert-spoon- fula of yeast, and a third of a pint of warm milk. Set it to rise before the fire, but not too near, or it will be heavy. After it has well risen, knead it into a dough, with a quarter of a pound of good fresh butter, two ounces of finely- sifted sugar, five eggs, a pinch of salt, and a little more warm milk. These ingredients should be first mixed with the milk, and then worked into the dough, and all should be well beaten till quite smooth. Set the mixture once more near the fire to rise, and when fit, make it into little round balls; sprinkle each ball with powdered sugar, and put them into a stewpan, with a large piece of butter, and enough milk to cover them. "When the milk gets hot the balls will swell, so plenty of space must be given, and on no account should they touch each other. When about twice their original size, put them into an oven to brown — a few minutes will be sufficient. They may be sent to table with jam as a garnish, or served on a napkin, and with a tureen of hot custard flavoured with rum as an accom- paniment. Time, three-quarters of an hour for the sponge to rise; to stew, fifteen minutes; and to bake, five to ten. Probable cost. Is. 3d. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Escaveeke Sauce.—Pound three cloves of garlic in a mortar with half a dozen shallots, two dessert-spoonfuls of coriander-seed, a little salt, a small salt-spoon of pounded ginger, and the same of cayenne. Add the rind of a lemon minced very fine, and pour over all, when boil- ing hot, a pint of the best white wine vinegar. Bottle when cold, and cork tightly for use. Probable cost, lOd. Everlasting Syllabubs.—Put into a rather deep pan two pints of good thick cream, a pint and a half of raisin wine, a pound of fine sugar, and the juice and grated rind of three lemons. "Whisk all briskly, and fill glasses, taking off the top as it rises with a slice. Ornament with harlequin sugar-plums. If kept in a cold place the everlasting syllabubs will keep eight or ten days. Probable cost, 48. for this quantity. Everton Toffee-—Put one pound of brown sugar and one tea-cupful of cold water into a pan well rubbed with good fresh butter. Set it over a slow fire, and boil until the sugar has become a smooth, thick syrup, then stir into it half a pound of butter, and boil for half an hour. "When sufficiently boiled, it may be tested by di'opping some on a plate, and if it dries hard and can easily be removed, the toft'ee is ready for flavouring. For this purpose, add twenty or thirty drops of essence of lemon. Pour the toffee into a wide, well-buttered dish. If liked, vinegar may be substituted for the water, then the lemon may be omitted. Everton ToflPee (another way).—Get one pound of treacle, the same quantity of moist sugar, and half a pound of butter. Put thnm in a saucepan large enough to allow of fast boiling over a clear fire. Put in the butter first, and rub it well over the bottom of the saucepan ; then add the treacle and sugax,( 206 ) EVE PAM Btirring together gently with a knife. After tho niixturo has boilod for about ten minutes, uscoi-tain if it is done in the following way :— Have ready a basin of cold water, and drop a littlo into it from tho point of a knit'o. If it is sulhciontly done, when you take it from tho water it will be quite crisp. Now prepare a large shallow tin pan or dish, rubbed all over , with butter to prevent its adhering, and into I this pour the toflfeo from tho saucepan to get luld, when it can be easily removed. To keep it good, it should be excluded from the air. Eve's Puddings.—Take equal quantities of Hour, fresh buttor, and sugar, six ounces of each ; turn the butter back to cream, and beat the sugar and flour into it. Separate the yolks from tho whites of four eggs, beat them till they are light, and add the yolks first, then the ■whites, to the batter, and lastly, half a dozen pounded almonds, and the grated rind of a small lemon. Beat well, and fill small cups to about half; then set before the fire to rise. In five minutes they will have sufficiently risen, and may be baked for half an hour. Exeter Pudding.—Beat up seven eggs with six ounces of moist sugar and a quarter of a pint of rum. Take ten ounces of bread- crumbs, seven ounces of finely-shred suet, and four ounces of sago ; add them gradually to the egg-mixture, with the rind of a small lemon cut very delicately. Beat all together, and when ready, butter a pudding-mould, cover the bottom of it with ratafias, and then throw in some of the mixture. Next, lay in slices of spongecake well spread with jam, and again the ratafias, filling up alternately with the mix- ture and slices of spongecake, but finishing with the mixture on the top. Bake in a rather quick oven. Make a sauce with a quarter of a pound of black currant jelly, warmed up with a couple of glasses of sherry. Throw it warm over the pudding when turned out of the mould, and serve hot. Time, an hour and a quarter to bake. Probable cost, 28 6d. Sufficient for seven or eight persons. F Fadge.—Dissolve two ounces of butter in a gill of milk, and when warm, stir it into equal quantities of rye and brown flour, two ounces of each ; throw in a little salt, and mix into a firm paste. This cake is best baked on a griddle; it should be turned frequently to prevent its being burnt. It will take nearly one hour to bake if made of the proper thickness, three- quarters of an inch. Probable cost, 4d. Fadge (Irish Recipe fok).—Mix one pound of fine wheaten flour to a firm dough with half a pint of milk warmed sufficiently to dissolve three ounces of butter. Put salt to the flour, and stir the milk briskly into the middle of it. Mix to a stiff paste. Roll out on a pasteboard, and cut it into cakes three- quarters of an inch thick. Bake on a griddle equally on both sides for one hour. Probable cost, 74d. Sufficient for six cakes. Fagadu Bradu.—Take of spinach that hiis boon well washed and drained, enough for a dish; stow it over a slow tire until halt done, then prtss out all the moisture, and add to it tho whole of a lobster cut into bits—small ones, and seasoned with cayenne and salt to taste- two table-spoonfuls of curry-powder, and two ounces of butter. Stew till the s]jinaoh is quite tender, which will be in about fifteen minutes. Probable cost, 3s. Faggots, Baked.—Make a mincemeat of calf H liver, or, if more convenient, pig's liver and fresh fat pork. Chop very finely one pound and a half of liver with half a pound of fresh fat pork. Season the mince with onion, sage, thyme, salt, and pepper. Steam it over boiling water, and throw off all fat. Whan cold, add a large cupful of bread-crumbs, and three well-beaten eggs; mix all together thoroughly, flavour with nutmeg, and make up into round balls which may be baked in a buttered dish with a small quantity of good gravy, or, as is often done, wrapped separately in a piece of pig's caul. Either way they should be of a pale brown, and cooked very slowly. Time: to steam mincemeat, half an hour; to bake, until done a pale brown. Fairy Fancies.—For this pretty, fan- ciful pastry make first a good short crust (see Crust, Short, Common). When very thinly and evenly rolled out, cut with a tin cutter, procured for the purpose, as many sheets of crust for the foundation of the pastry as are required; then, with a round tin cutter of about an inch in diameter, and another of half the size, make eight rings of crust, and carefully place two—one of each size, the largest at the bottom—on the four comers of the foundation previously formed. The rings should be brushed with white of egg to make them adhere. Bake in a slow oven, as the pastry should be of a pale tint. When cold, fill each of the four rounds with differently-coloured jams or jellies. The above may also be iced with sugar, or made of almond paste, and the rings coloured according to fancy, and filled with whipped cream. Family Soup.—Peel and slice two jwunds of potatoes, two carrots, a turnip, and a middle- sized onion. Put the onion into a f rjnng-pan with two poimds of soup beef and half a poimd of lean bacon also sliced; add a small cabbage well chopped, and fry till the meat is slightly browned. Drain from the fat, put the meat and sliced vegetables into a stewpan with two quarts of water, and add, after it has simmered one hour, two quarts more of water. Skim carefully before adding the water, which should be poured in by degrees. When the vegetables are done, rub them to a smooth pulp through a colander, and when the meat has stewed three hours re- move it from the stewpan, and simmer the whole for some time longer. Strain, thicken with the potato, put the meat back cut up into small bits, and serve hot with toasted sippets. Probable cost, 6d. per quart. Sufficient for twelve persons. Family Soup (another way).—Put eight or ten pounds of leg of beef, tho most fleshyPEN ( 207 ) PAN pai-t, into a saucepan that will hold water in the proportion of one quart to every pound of meat. Throw in a small quantity of salt and make the pot boil, and when the scum rises, clear it thoroughly off. Draw the pot aside and let the soup "simmer gently three hours, then put in all sorts of vegetables, three or four carrots, a couple of heads of celery, a smiill cabbage, or, if preferred, tomatoes, a bunch of herbs tied in muslin, some sliced onion fried, and, half an hour before the soup is ready, some turnip cut into small dice. If the meat be requii-ed for table, take it out when tender, which will be after it has stewed from four to five hours. The carrots and cabbage may bo boiled whole and served with the meat. Strain the soup, and thicken with flour. Small pieces of the meat should be sent to table in the tureen. For a small family, where so large a quantity is not required at once, this soup, made according to the direc- tions just given, will be found equally good the second day if only heated and not boiled. Probable cost of beef, 8d. to 9d. per poimd. Panchonettes.—Put a lining of good puft" paste round some tartlet-pans, and fill with a custard. Make it as follows :—Beat four eggs till they are light, stir into them two ounces of sugar and butter (the butter must be beaten till it is like cream), three-quarters of a pint of milk, and three dessert-spoonfuls of flour. When thoroughly mixed, simmer in a well-lined saucepan imtU thick—the mixture should not boil—and flavour with lemon, bitter almonds, or any essence preferred. When baked, slip the fanchonettes out of the pans, and while they are cooling whisk the whites of two eggs to a froth, and stir into the froth two ounces of finely-powdered sugar, with which mixture smooth the tops of the tartlets. This icing must be set for five minutes in the oven, but care must be taken to prevent the tartlets from colouring. Send to table on a white napkin garnished with coloured jelly arranged between the tartlets and aroimd them. Time to bake, twenty minutes. Sufficient to fill one dozen tartlets. Parferl Paste.—Break an egg into a basin, and beat it weU with a two-pronged fork, adding half a. cup of water and a little salt. Stir the egg into eight ounces of fine flour ; it will form into flakes. This paste is used for soups, gravies, and ragouts. Time, a few minutes. Probable cost, 2id. Sufficient for three pints. Fast-day Sauce.—Use for this fish broth. Blend three table-spoonfuls of flour with four ounces of good butter, put it into a stewpan with al)out a pint and a half of the broth, and heat it till it thickens, but it should not boil. Boil in some more broth an onion sliced, a head of celery, a carrot, and some parsley, and when tender pour in the butter and stew all together. Any additional flavouring may be added, and, II liked, a little lemon-juice or vinegar—^this last should be white. Strain for use. If a brown sauce be required, the flour and butter should be browned before the broth is added, and the vegetables fried brown in butter. Time, about fifteen minutes. Probable cost, 6d. Pat or Marrow Pudding.—Rub stale bread through a wire sieve to make half a pint of fine crumbs. Pour upon these a pint and a half of boiling milk, soak awhile, then add, whilst still hot, four ounces of clarified fat, four ounces of raisins, sugar and nutmeg to taste. Beat the mixture till the fat is melted, stir in four eggs, put the pudding into a buttered mould, and boil it for three hours. Pawn, Hashed.—Stew half a dozen mushrooms and a shallot in a pint of good gravy made from the trimmings of venison, or the remains of mutton gravy. Season with pepper and salt. Lay some nice slices of cold fawn in a stewpan with the gravy, let them get hot through, then add a tea-spoonful each of lemon-juice and sugar, and a glass of porl wine. Let it stand for a few minutes by the- side of the fire, and serve hot. Time, thirty minutes to stew mushrooms, &c., five minutes to warm the slices. Fawn, Hoasted.—The hind-quarter is the best, but a small fawn may be roasted whole, larded, stuffed, and trussed like a hare. Cover with a buttered paper, and baste until half done, then remove the larding and paper, and baste the meat liberally till done. Serve with a sauce as follows : —Take half a pint of mutton gravy, and simmer any of the venison trim- mings in it; strain, and add a small pot of currant jelly, a table-spoonful of powdered sugar, and a large glass of port or claret. Serve hot in a tureen. Time to roast fawn, one hour and a half; to simmer gravy with jelly, &c., five minutes. Fennel.—Common fennel is a well-known biennial plant cultivated in our gardens chiefly for its leaves, which are boiled, and served up with several kinds of fish, and especially with mackerel and salmon. Sometimes the leaves are employed to form a fish-sauce. The species of fennel known as sweet fennel is cultivated as a pot-herb in Italy and Portugal, of which countries it is a native. PEirsmL. Fennel, Pickled.—Fennel should be tied into bunches, and put into a pan of boiling salted water, and when scalded enough, laid on a cloth till dry-. When cold, fill glasses with the fennel, and cover with cold vinegar. AddPIG ( 208 ) FEN a little nutmeg and mace, and tie down with a bladder and leather to keep out the air. Time throe or four minutes. * Fennel Sauce—MmIco some good melted butter in tho j)ropurtion of an ounce and a half of butter, a dossort-spoonful of flour, and a wine-glassful of water. Blend tho butter and flour together, reserving a little of the butter to stir in after it has thickened and been removed from tho tire. Chop enough of fennel to till a table-spoon, and put it with the butter when it is on the point of boiling. Do not let it boil, but simmer for a minute or two, then remove, and stir in the remaining butter. Servo in a tureen. Probable cost, 4d. Suffi- tient for five or six mackerel. Feuilletage.—Press out all the moisture from eno pound of good fresh butter; break two ounces of it into bits, and blend them with one pound of fine wheaten flour; moisten to a paste with two well-beaten yolks of eggs and a little water, the eggs and water being mixed together before being added to tho flour. Put tho paste on a board, and add the remainder of the butter; fold the paste so that the butter may- be quite enclosed. Dust flour over the board, and roll out thin ; then fold over, and put the paste by for a few minutes in a cool place. Proceed in the same manner, and again let it stand for a little time, when it will be fit for use. {See also Pufi Paste.) Fieldfare.—This is a bird of the thrush tribe, which pays an annual visit to these islands, coming from the northern parts of Europe, where it exists in great numbers. It is small in size, its whole length being but ten inches. It makes its appearance about the beginning of November, affords some sport to youthful sportsmen at Christmas, and leaves us again about February or March. Fieldfare Pasties.—Take half a dozen birds—fieldfares, snipes, woodcocks, quails, and young plovers—draw them, and put the insides into a stewpan with a little butter, first taking out any grit from the gizzards. "When they have steamed enough in the butter (they should not brown) take them out, and put the birds into the butter to brown lightly. Remove them; add a little more butter, and stir in three or four eggs well beaten with a tea-cupful of milk. Have ready a forcemeat of veal, bacon, and calf's liver, in the proportion of one pound and a half of veal to half a pound of bacon, and the same of liver. Season with pepper, salt, and spice. Stir this mince into the stewpan, and when it is sufiiciently dressed, and thick enough, spread a layer over the bottom of a dish, and when a sweetbread is obtainable cut it, when boiled, into pieces the size of a small nut- meg, and mix these with it. The birds and their trails must now be laid on the forcemeat, with a sprinkling of salt and pepper, and a good squeeze of lemon-juice; the rest should be laid upon them, and a cover of paste over all. Bake in a good oven, and jpour in a little rich gravy with a funnel when done. Time, three- quarters of an hour to one hour to bake. Pro- bable cost: snipes, la. 6d. to 2b. 6d. the brace; woodcocks, 3h. each ; quails. Is. to 2b. ; plovers, Is. (id. to 28. Gd. tho brace. Fieldfares, Roasted.—These birds are tniwHiid and ruasted like a partridge. Wheu put before a briglit fire, baste well with butter or dripping, and froth nicely a few minutes before serving. Send to table hot on fried bread- crumbs, with a tureen of gravy, and another of bread sauce. Tune, from fifteen to twenty minutes. Fieldfares are seldom to be bought. SulKcient for a dish, four. Fife Pie.—Take a nice young rabbit, skin and cut it into pieces about the size of a small egg. Prepare a forcemeat of the li ver, par-boiled and minced, some bread-crumbs, a httle fat bacon, and a seasoning of lemon-thyme, minced parsley, nutmeg, pepper, and salt. Moisten with an egg, and make into balls. Cut one pound of bacon into thin slices ; free from rind, sprinkle all with pepper, salt, and nut- meg, and pack it, with the balls, closely into a dish. Pour in a tea-cupful of good gravy, and a small glass of white wine. Bake with a cover of puff paste. Time to bake, an hour and a half. Probable cost, 28. 6d., without wine. Sufficient for five or six persons. Fig Pudding.—Take equal quantities of flour and bread-crumbs, three ounces of •each, shred two ounces of suet very finely, mix together and add two oimces of apples weighed after being pared and chopped, four ounces of figs cut up small, and a heaped table-spoonful of sugar, with sufficient milk to make the paste firm, not wet. Put it into a buttered mould, press closely together, and tie down with a cloth. Serve with wine sauce or melted butter. Time, three hours to steam. Probable cost, 6d. Leave room for the pudding to swell in the mould. Fig Pudding (another way).—This pud- ding is often made like a roly-poly jam pudding {see Roly-poly Jam Pudding), thus:—• llix three-quarters of a poimd of flour and six oimces of finely-chopped suet into a smooth paste with milk. Cut the figs—about one pound—into bits, and put them over the paste, which should be rolled out half an inch thick. When doubled over, see that the paste is firmly closed at the ends, and tie in a floured cloth to boil. Time, nearly two hours. Pro- bable cost. Is. 3d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Figs, Greeuj, Compote of.—Boil one poimd of sugar with a pint and a half of water and the rind of half a lemon; take off the scum as it appears, and when it has boiled a quarter of an hour, put in one pint and a half of green figs, and simmer them verj' slowly till tender, adding a little port wine or lemon-juice. Re- move the figs, and boil the sjTup up quickly, pour it over the figs, and when cold sen'e on a glass dish. Time, two to three hours to stew the figs. Probable cost, 2s. to 38. per dozen. Figs, Preserved.—Take small green figs, wipe, and put them into cold water; do this in the morning, and the next day simmer them till tender. Put them into cold water for three days, changing the water each day. Trj' if they are soft enough for a pin's head to pierce them(ao9) PIS easily; if so, weigh them, and to each pound of fruit allow a pound of sugai-. Clarify the sugar, and put the figs into it while hot. Sim- mer for ton or twelve minutes. In a couple of days add the thin rind of a lemon and a little ginger to the sjTup, and heat the figs in it agsiin; do this twice, divide, the figs into halves, alid put them, in their syrup, into pots. Tie down closely. Figs, Stewed.—Dissolve in an enamelled Kiuccpan a quarter of a pound of fine sugar with a pint of cold water; add to it anything to flavour—orange, lemon, or almond, if pre- ferred. Put into this one pound of the best Turkey figs, let them have very little heat, so that they may swell; if properly done this compote will be excellent, but the figs must be stowed very slowly, and when tender, a glass or two of port wine and a little lemon-juice should be added. When eaten hot, serve with a border of rice; when cold, send to table on a glass dish. The thin rind of a large lemon boiled with the figs will fiavour this dish weU. Time, about two hoirrs and a half to stew gently. Pindon or " Finnan " Haddocks.— These haddocks are held in great esteem for their peculiar and delicate flavour. The genuine iFmnaji may be known by its odour and riKNAN HADDOCK. creamy yellow colour. Strip off the skin, and broil before the fire or over a quick, clear one. Kub the fish over with butter, and serve hot. Some persons prefer to cut them in pieces and steam them iu a basin of boiling water. Heat the basin first, throw boiling water on them, and cover closely with a plate; if kept on a hot stove, they will require from ten to fifteen minutes, and when drained, should be placed on a hot dish and rubbed over with butter. Serve hot. Excellent as a breakfast relish.' If hked the haddock maybe toasted before the fire. Findon, or "Finnan" Haddocks, Jl ried.—Rub butter or oil on both sides of the fish, and put it into a frying-pan smeared with either. Shake the pan over a clear fire In three or four minutes the fish wiU be sufficiently done. Servo hot, with a Uttle more butter rubbed over. Probable cost, 6d. to I3. Finger Biscuits.—Take six eggs, and divide the yolks from the whites. Beat up the yolks with half a pound of fine sugar; mix for five minutes, and add the whites, well whipped, with five ounces of flour. Flavour with vanilla, lemon, or orange-flower water. Make a paste- board fuimel, fiU it with the paste, and press the biscuits through the aperture at the end, which should be cut to about three-quarters of an inch in diameter. Make the biscuits in the shape of a finger, and about three inches long. Drop them on a baldng-sheet in straight Unes. Sprinkle finely-sifted sugar over them, and bake in a moderate oven. They should be a light yellow colour. Time, ten to fifteen minutes to bake. Probable cost of this quan- tity. Is. Fish Cakes.—Make a savoury gravy, by boiling down the heads, tails, fins, and bones of any fish, with water enough to cover them. Add onion, herbs, pepper, salt, and a very little mace. With the meat, when well minced, mix a third part of the quantity of bread- crumbs, and a flavouring of the same kind as that used for gravy. Moisten with melted butter, and bind with white of egg. Cover the cake with raspings, and fry in butter tiU of a light brown. When the gravy has been strained from the tiimmings, put it, with the cake, into a stewpan, cover close, and stew gently for a quarter of an hour. While the cake is being fried turn a plate over it. Time, eight to ten minutes to fry. Pish Cakes (another way). — Take the fish left from dinner while warm; remove the skin and bones, and mix with mashed potatoes. Add pepper, salt, chopped parsley, and an ounce of butter. Moisten vtdth an egg into a pasie, and roll into balls ; then flatten and dip into egg. Fry in butter or lard to a nice brown. Time, three-quarters of an hour to prepare. Fish, Cold, To Re-dress.—Put any cold fish—turbot, brill, soles, whiting, or smelt —cut small, into escallop-shells, with bread- crumbs and some good fish sauce — oystoi-, lobster, or shrimp. Place the shells in a Dutch oven. They will when browned be excellent. Put a little butter on the top of each. Time, fifteen to twenty minutes. ' Pish Croquettes of.—Mix over the fire a tea-spoonful of flour, an ounce of butter, and half a gill of cream. Add, off the fire, the yolk of an egg, a little seasoning, and half a pound of cold dressed fish beaten to a paste. Let the mixture cool, and form it into balls, let these bo egged and breaded. Fry to a nice brown in hot fat, and serve with gravy, made by boiling down the bones, fins, and tails with an onion. Add an anchovy and seasoning to taste. Probable cost of this quantity, exclusive of cold fish, 4d. Fish, Croquettes of (German).—Make a very savoury and piquant ragout of fish, dis- solving in it enough gelatine to bind it when cold, and a small cupful of bread-crumbs. Cut into pieces, when cold, about the length and 3ii:o of a finger, and roll them into sausages, toI FIS (210) be brushed over with egg, and coated with a mixture of broad-crumbs and Parmesan cheese, or bread-crumbs alone, and then fried in hot fat. Garnish with parsley and any green pickle. Time, fry till brown. Probable cost, 6d., oxclusive of nsh. Pish Curry.—Cut cod, haddock, sole, or salmon into neat lillots. If salted for a few hours the fish will bo better and lirmor. Drain, di-y, and fry tbe iillots for fivo minutes. Fry also in butter two onions and a shallot cut small. When tender rub them through a sieve, mix with the pulp a table-spoouful of curry paste, a tea-spoonful of ground rice, and as nmch stock as is required. BoU the sauce till thick, put in the iish, and simmer it till done enough. When ready to servo, throw in a table-spoonful of lemon-juice, and send to table with rice as an accompaniment. Probable cost, exclusive of fish, 6d. Fish Cutlets.—Cutlets may be cut from almost any white lish ; they may be cooked or raw. Put a quantity of chopped herbs, a bit of shallot, and a seasoning of pepper and salt, into a stewpan with two ounces of butter. Stir in a tea-spoonful of essence of anchovies, and as soon as the butter is melted remove from the fire to cool. Lay the seasoning over the cutlets thickly, and powder them well with ■ fine bread-crumbs. They maybe cooked before the fire, or in an oven on buttered pans. Have ready some green vegetables stewed in good broth; silver button-onions or anything that is in season may be used. Put the vegetables in the centre of the dish, and arrange the cutlets round. Time to stew vegetables, about a quarter of an horn-. Probable cost, 6d., exclu- sive of fish. Fish (en Matelote).—Fish may be served en matelote either whole or divided. Trout, pike, carp, tench, eels, &c., are good cooked in this way. Put an ounce of butter into a stew- pan, and brown a dozen button-onions that have been scalded. Put in the fish, and add a half pint of gravy or stock, a glass of red wine, pepper, salt, allspice, a bay-leaf, and a carrot and turnip cut into slices. Take out the fish, thicken the gravy with fiour and butter, and add mushrooms, the button-onions nicely browned, some oysters bearded and scalded, and small fish quenelles. Season to taste with anchovy, cayenne, and lemon-juice, and pom* the gravy boiling hot over the fish. Time, three-quarters of an hour. Fish, Essence of.—This ismade by boiling fresh fish ui stock with herbs and vegetables till its flavour is extracted. Fish gravy for making fish sauces and moistening fish patties may be made by stewing the bones, fins, and trimmings of fish which has been filleted before being cooked, in as much water as will cover it. The stock may be flavoured with vegetables and herbs, and should be freed from fat before being used. Fish, Fat for Frying.—Butter and lard are the materials mostly in use for this mode of cooking in England; oil and clarified ukimmings are also used. On the continent, where nothing else than oil is used, fried diahes are more deHcato, and in appearance superior to those cooked with any other fatty substance. Butter, lard, di-ipping, or oil may be nand for the same pui-pose two or three times, if care be taken not to bum it during the frying, and carefully to strain it into clean pots or iars {see Fry, To.) Fish, Forcemeat for.—Chop the re- mains of any shell-fish—lobster, crab, &c.— with the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, add a little minced parsley, and the same quantity of bread-crumbs as of fish. Pound all in a mortar, with two ounces of butter, a tea-spoon- ful of salt, half the quantity of pepper, and a flavouring of nutmeg. Stuff any white fish with this forcemeat, mixing it well with the beaten yolk of an egg. (See also Oysters, Force- meat of.) Fish Fricandelles.—Pour milk or wine on the crumb of a French roll, enough to soak it. Cut one pound of cooked or raw fish with- out skin or bone, and a couple of anchovies, into small bits. Season with mace, cayenne, and nutmeg. Beat the yolks of two eggs with the roll, and then add the fish. Mix a little cream, and warm it carefully. Have ready a buttered mould, fill it with the fish, and cover with bread-crumbs. Make hot in the oven, and brown with a salamander or red-hot shovel. Fish, Fried.—Fish to be nicely fried should be wiped very dry, and floured before bemg put into the pan of boiling fat. Next to I oil, clarified dripping is the best. Shake the pan gently vmtLl hot through. If you want the fish to look very nice, dip it into egg, and sprinkle with bread-crumbs before frj-ing. Drain before the fire, and dish on a hot nap- kin. The time required for this mode of cook- ing will vary according to the size, quality and thickness of the fish. (See Fry, To.) Fish, Fried (Jewish fashion). The Jews, like our continental neighbours, use oil foi- frying. Soyer gives the following excellent recipe for cooking fish:—Lay one or more poimds of halibut in a dish, with salt over the top, and water not to cover the fish. Let it stay one hour for the salt to penetrate. Drain and drj'' it; then cut out the bone, and take off the fins. Divide the pieces into slices half an inch thick. Put a quarter of a pound of oil, butter, lard, or dripping into a frjdng-pan. Dip the fish into a batter, and fry- till the pieces are of a nice colour, and all sides alike. When quite done, take them out with a slice, drain, and serve with any sauce liked. All fish, especially those containing oil, are improved by this method—the oil is absorbed by the batter. Fish, Grilled.—Small thin fish, or lai^e fish divided into slices or fillets are excellent when grilled. This method of cooking is par- ticularly suitable for fish to be served at break- fast. Slices of salmon, cod, or sturgeon, trout, red mullet, herrings fresh and dried, haddock, whiting, filleted sole or mackerel, the small soles called " shps," and the small plaice called " dabs" may all be grilled, and thus cooked will be tasty and well flavoure'^ The fish(211) should first bo thoroughly dried, then rubbed all over with oil, and seasoned with pepper and salt. Occasionally a little chopped parsley is added to the seasoning. The oil will keep the fish from becoming dry whilst it is being cooked. Be careful to have a clear bright fire for grilling fish. Make the gridiron hot on both sides, and rub it well with mutton fat, to keep the fish from sticking. Place it upon the bars, keep moving it about, and turn it occa- sionally, that it may be equally cooked on both sides. When it is done through and is lightly browned all over it is ready to serve. Some- times fish that is to be grilled is floured after it is oiled, and this helps to give it a good colour. When it is wished that the fish should be very delicately prepared it is wrapped in well oiled paper, but this method requires care, or the paper may bum or become dirty and unsightly. Broiled fish may either be without sauce, or piquant sauce may be sent to table with it. Pish, Jelly for.—Boil down a skate, cow- heel, or calf 8 foot, in three pints of water, until it is reduced to a quart. Skim it carefully, strain it, and boil it again with a small onion stuck with one or two cloves, a slice of ham, a little parsley, and haK an anchovy pounded in butter. When it is nicely flavoured pour it oft", remove the fai, and if it is not suiEciently clear clarify it with white of egg. A glassful of sherry may be added or not. It will be fit for use when cold, and should be laid over the fish roughly. Probable cost, about Is. for this quantity. Fish Kedgeree.—Pick some cooked sal, mon, turbot, or other fish into flakes, and boil a cupful of rice in good white broth; add the fish to the rice, and when hot through, stir in an egg, and serve. Time, thirty minutes to boil rice. Probable cost, exclusive of fish, 4d. Fish Ketchup.—Pick out the meat from a lobster; get one that is full of spawn, and weighs about three pounds. Pound the coral and add it to the meat, with a small tea-spoon- ful of cayenne, salt, and some part of a bottle of sherry. When well pounded in a mortar together, add the remainder of the wine, or as much as is necessary. If put into bottles, and the air is kept out of them, the ketchup will keep good for twelve months, and any quantity may be used heated in melted butter. From three to four table-spoonftils wiU be enough for a large tureen of melted butter. Fish Kl'osse.—Clear half a pound of un- cooked fish from skin and bone, and mince two ounces of fat bacon ; blend them together with a seasoning of salt, pepper, nutmeg, and parsley. Brown a shallot, minced finely in a stewpan, with three ounces of butter, and then stir in and mix over the fire for a few minutes three ounces of bread-crumbs, two table-spoon- fuls of cream, and a couple of eggs. When cold, mix this, and the fish, «&c., together. Make into klosse with a spoon, and boil for ten minutes. Probable cost, lOd., exclusive of fish. {See KIdsse.) Fish Maigre, To dress.—Take boiling water, but only just enough to cover the fish, and let it simmer steadily till the fish is done, adding u biiiail tea-spoonful of peppercorns, six or eight allspice, and two middle-sized onions, each stuck with two cloves. With the li4Uor, when strained, put as much flour and butter as will make it of the consistency of milk ; flavour with wine, and any sauce—mushroom or an- chovy—and season with salt, pepper, and cayenne. To each pint of sauce put a glass of wine, a small spoonful of ketchup, a tea-spoon- ful of anchovy sauce, and a few grains of cayenne. This sauce, after it has simmered a few Diinutes, should be strained over the fish, which must be served on a deep dish. Garnish with sippets of bread, fried. Time, from ten to twenty minutes to simmer, according to the size of the fish. Fish, Marinade for.—Fry in butter half a dozen shallots, three middle-sized onions, a couple of carrots, a bunch of parsley, a bundle of sweet herbs, and a clove of garlic. Cut the carrots, shallots, and onions small; pick and mince the herbs. Wlien they have simmered in the butter five or six minutes, pour in any light wine or cider—about three pints—and add a dessert-spoonful of peppercorns, the same of allspice, and two cloves. When the mixtui e has simmered for one hour and a half, strain for use. Insipid fish boiled in this marinade will acquire a flavour of a very agreeable kind, and the bones of smaU fish are rendered soft and eatable if gently stewed in it. Large fish should be cut into steaks; and if, after use, the marinade be carefully strained, it will serve several times. The expense, too, may be much lessened by using beer or vinegar, with the addition of a glass of soy, and the same of essence of anchovy and ketchup. (See also Marinade for Fish.) Fish, Fanada for.—Put one ounce of butter, and rather less than two gills of water into a saucepan, boil them together, and add, by degrees, a quarter of a pound of flour; stir until the mixture is smooth, but do not let it bum. When off the tire, mix with it the yolks of three well-beaten eggs. When cold it is fit for use. It is employed in making Forcemeat. Fish Pate.—Pick from the shell of a crab all that is good; pound it in a mortar with a small quantity of bread-crtunbs, and a seasort- ing of white pepper, cayenne, salt, and nut- meg ; add a very little gravy, which thicken with butter rolled in flour. Make it hot, and squeeze in a little lemon-juice. Have ready a wall of mashed potatoes round the inner rim of a flat dish; let it be two and a half inches high. Smooth and ornament it with leaves, flowers, or according to taste ; this can be done with a tin-cutter, and if egged and browned in the oven will have a very pretty appearance. Fill the centre with the fricassee, and brown with a salamander. Small patties may be made, and filled with this fricassee. Time, one hour to prepare potatoes. Sufficient, one pound for three persons. Fish, Pickled.—Any boiled fish may be kept good for another meal by simply mixing equal quantities of the water in which it was boiled and vinegar, together with an onion sliced, some fresh fennel, pepper, and salt. Put the fish into a deep dish, and throw the pickle( 212 ) PIS PIS pvor it. Baste froquontly, that it may be well moistened. It will keep good Hevonti days in. cold wouthoi'. Time, two or three days. Fishj Pickled (another way).—Make a pickle ot boiling water and salt, strong enough to boar an ogg. Plunge the iish to be picklod into it. Let the fish bo well cleaned and trimmed, but the scales must not be removed, and there must be only just enough of the pickle to cover it. Be careful not to boil too much. Drain by placing it on a slanting board; and when cold pack it close, and lill the vessel with equal parts of the liquor the salmon or other lish was boiled in, and the best vinegar. Fill up again next day, and close the vessel. Pish. Pie.—Fish pies are best made with cooked fish. Take turbot, salmonv brill, had- dock, trout, or any kind of fish; take off the skin and remove the bones. Cut the flesh in large scollops, cover the bottom of the dish with bechamel sauce, and on this place the fish in layers, seasoning each layer with pepper, ^It, nutmeg, chopped mushrooms, shallot, parsley, and hard-boiled eggs; throw in a little more sauce, and fill up with the fish and seasoning. Cover with puff paste. Time, three-quarters of an hour to bake. Pish Pie (another way).—Take flounders, clean and dry them well in a cloth, boil, and separate the fish from the bones. Boil the bones in a saucepan with a pint of the water in which the fish was boiled, a bit of parsley, lemon-peel, pepper, and salt. When reduced to the quantity required for gravy, make a crust and line a pie-dish. Put some bits of butter in the bottom of the dish, then a layer of fish, strew chopped parsley, and spritdcle with flour, pepper, and salt. Proceed until the dish is full, pour in the gravy, and bake with a top crust. Time, about three-quarters of an hour to bake. Pish, Pink Sauce for.—Soak for forty- eight hours in one quart of the best vinegar and half a pint of port wine, a quarter of an ounce of cochineal, half an ounce of cayenne pepper, and six cloves of garlic; add and mix one table-spoonful of walnut-ketchup, and a double quantity of anchovy liquor; strain, and put it into bottles for use. It should be stirred often during the forty-eight hours, and the bottles used should not hold more than half a pint each. Pish Pudding.—Pound the flesh of two raw haddocks, cleared from skin and bone, in a mortar, pass it through a sieve, mixing a very little good gravy with it. Pound also an onion, a little parsley, a few bread-crumbs, and a quarter of a pound of veal suet; moisten vnth a couple of eggs, and season with pepper and salt. Beat these ingredients well into the pounded fish. "When well mixed, boil the pudding in a mould, and send to table with a rich brown sauce. Eel pudding, with the addi- tion of oysters, is excellent. It may be boiled in paste, and served with a sauce in the dish, or in a mould with sauce in a tureen. Time, one hour to boil. Probable cost, Is. each. Pish Pudding, Plain.—Line a pudding- basin with ordinary pudding paste; cut a pound of cod, or any other fish liked, into pieces, season with salt, popper, a very little chopped parsley, and onion, moisten with stock, cover with a crust, and boil in the usual way ; add fish sauce to taste. Serve hot. Time, one hour to boil. Sufficient for two persons. Pish Ragout in Scallop Shells.— Dissolve a piece of butter in a stewpaii, and put into it any uncooked fish, well cleared from skin and bone, and cut into small dice, but not mashed; add salt and lemon-juice, and stew very gently till done ; then have ready a sauce composed of the following ingredients:—Some good gravy, a glassful of white wine, a little cayenne pepper, grated lemon-peel, ginger, and nutmeg. Thicken the sauce with flour and butter, and stir till quite thick; then put in the fish, and stir in the yolks of three eggs and a little sardine butter. Put this ragout into scallop-shells with a covering of bread-crumbs and Parmesan cheese. Pour a little oUed butter over and bake to a pale brown. Time, ten minutes to bake. Pish Rdchaufi'6.—Take any fish, cooked, free from skin and bones, flake it, and to every pound add half a pint of cream, of Harvey sauce, mushroom ketchup, essence of anchovy, and mustard, one email spoonful of each. Thicken the sauce with butter rolled in flour, and sprinkle with salt and pepper. Put the fish and the sauce into a stewpan, and when hot place it carefully on a dish ; cover with bread- crumbs, and baste with butter for a few minutes while it is before the fire. Brown with a sala- mander, or raise a wall of mashed potatoes round the dish, two and a half inches high, and place the ragout in the centre. Pike, cod, tur- bot, soles, and haddock do well for this dish. , Pish, Rissoles of .—To any quantity or kind of cold cooked fish, weighed after the bones and skin have been removed, add a third part of grated bread-crumbs, a finely-minced boiled onion, some cold melted butter, and the yolks of two eggs; season -with pepper and salt. Make puff paste, roU it thin, and cut it into squares of two inches. Place about a tea-spoon- ful of the mince on each square, and fold over with paste. Wet the edges of the paste, before closing them, that they may adhere, and fry in boiling fat, first egging and covering the rissoles with bread-crumbs. Serve dry. Garnish with fried parsley. Time, fry till lightly browned, probable cost, 8d., exclusive of the fish. Pish Salad.—This consists of cold fish of any kind, mixed ■with well dried salad, pickled gherkins, or any other green pickle. Oysters or shrimps may be added to the other fish, which should be separated neatly into flakes, and the whole should be moistened with a salad cream. Garnish with slices of lemon and some parsley. Pish Sandwiches.—Cut bread and butter as for other sandwiches, place thin sccJilops of any fish on the slices, and instead of mustard, use Tartar sauce. Put a layer of finely-sliced lettuce on the top of the sauce, and cover with broad and butter. Serve cut into squares. Thin slices of hard-boiled eggs may be added, but fish make good sandwiches alone if well seasoned.FIS PIS ( 218 ) Fish Sauce.—To a quaxt of the best vine- gar add an ounce and a hall' of cayenne pepper, two or three shtillots, a few shi-eds of garlic, and two table-spoonfuls each of wahiut ketchup and soy. To be kept in a large bottle, and well shaken every day. At the end of a fortnight divide the sauce, and keep it well sealed in smaU bottles. Use as required. It wiU be lit for use in about three weeks. Probable cost, Is. for this quantity. Fish, Sauce for Boiled. — Take some of the water in which the hsh has been boiled, and simmer in it for a quarter of an hour an onion, an anchovy, and a table-spoonful of walnut ketchup; add a pint of good veal gravy, strain, and thicken with butter and flour. Two table-spoonfuls of the fish broth will be enough for this quantity. Probable cost, 4d. Fish Sauce, without Butter.—Boil down a table-spoonfid of horse-radish, an onion, four cloves, and two blades of mace pounded, in half a pint of water and a quarter of a pint of good vinegar. When the onion is soft, mince it with a couple of anchovies, and stir it into the sauce, adding a tea-spoonful of salt, and half the quantity of black pepper. Mix the beaten yolks of threG eggs (which should be first strained) into the sauce. Do this gra- dually, and throw the sauce from the pan to a basin, and then toss it over the fire till it is thick enough to serve. Time to boil the sauce, half an hour; to thicken with eggs, five minutes. Fish Scallop.—Take half a pound of any cold fish; weigh it when the bones and skin have been removed. Put it into a stewpan, with walnut ketchup and made mustard, half a tea-spoonful of each, and half a table-spoonful of anchovy sauce, mixed first with half a pint of cream and then with the fish. Heat all together, but it should not boU. FUl a dish or put into scallop shells; cover with bread- crumbs, and place butter in small lumps over the top. Brown in the oven, or use a sala- mander. Time, a quarter of an hour to bake. Probable cost, Is., exclusive of the fish. Fish Soup.—Slice two middle-sized onions, fry them of a light brown in butter, and fry also three pounds of eels—they should not be skinned. When just browned (five minutes will do them), add three quarts of boiling water, and while boiling skim carefully. Throw in allspice and black pepper, two drachms, half an ounce of the leaves of lemon, thyme, and winter savoury mixed, and a good bimch of parsley (all green). When the soup has boiled slowly about two hours, during which time it should have been well skimmed, strain and thicken. Melt three ounces of butter, and stir into it as much flour as will absorb the butter. When quite dry, pour some of the soup to it and stir until smooth; then add the remainder by degrees, and simmer altogether for a few minutes, when the soup should be strained into a clean saucepan oyer neatly-cut pieces of fish, such as soles, eels, plaice, flounder, skate, &c., all fried, and force- meat balls. Keep hot, and serve in about ten mmutes after the soup has been poured over the fish. Good fish soup may be made with a skate, a floimder, and a couple of small eels, cut into pieces, and fried in butter with an onion sliced, then boiled with half a gallon of water tiU good, and flavoured with salt and pepper. This stock will keep several days in cold weather. Fish Soup (another way).—Boil down the trimmings and bones of any fish intended for this soup; put them, with three pints of fish stock, into a saucepan, and add three middle- sized onions halved, two lemons sliced, and the rind of one grated, a bvmch of parsley, and some chervil. When well stewed, strain through a tamis. Have ready fillets of fish, about six pounds of sole, carp, or perch, and when fried, put them into the soup. Season it with a tea- spoonful of salt and half the quantity of mace and cayenne mixed; and add a couple of glass- fuls of white wine. The soup should be good, clear, and free from fat. Simmer ten minutes, and serve with quenelles of fish. Time, one hour to stew trimmings. Sufficient for six persons. Fish Soup (economical).—Take care of the liquor in which fish has been boiled. Put the bones, fins, head, and trimmings of the dressed fish into three pints of the liquor, and stew gently till reduced to one quart. Strain the stock and leave it till cold. When the soup is wanted put the liquor into the stewpan with an onion, or better still, a leek, a little salt and cayenne, and two large potatoes. Boil till these are soft, then rub the soup through a hair sieve. Make it hot again, and add a few drops of essence of anchovy. Put it into the soup- tureen, and mix a cupful of boiling milk with it. Have ready a table-spoonful of finely- chopped parsley. Sprinkle this upon the soup at the last moment, and serve. Fish Soup Quenelles.—Pick out the meat from a lobster, and pound it, together with three ounces of butter. Season with salt and a quarter of a tea-spoonful of mace and cayenne pepper mixed together; blend the meat to a paste with the yolk of a raw egg, and add while mixing the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs and two table-spoonfuls of fine bread-crumbs. Mould in a tea-spoon and poach the quenelles for two or three minutes, or fry in butter a light brown before they are put in the soup. When used as an entree, or breakfast dish, serve with a good gravy, after being boiled or fried in butter. Time, ten minutes to fry for entree. Fish Soup, White.—Clean and trim any- kind of fish—iresh or salt water. Boil the trim- mings with a head of celery, a small quantity of parsley, two onions, a bay-leef, and five or six cloves. Use water, and cover the saucepan closely. When the contents have boiled one hour, add as much more water as will be required to make the soup. Strain it, and stir in a cup of cream. Season with salt and white pepper. Lay in the tureen some eggs, nicely fried in butter; allow one for each person. Pour the soup over, and serve with toasted bread. Sufficient, half a pint for each person. Fish Soup, with Potatoes. —Have ready the fish broth; made as directed for fishFIS FLA Boup. Whori stmined, grate a number of potatoes—four pouudu of good mealy ono8 will thiekou two quarts of broth—add those with some well-boaton eggs and a large cup of cream. Flavour with salt and nutmeg. If preferred, milk may bo substituted for some of the broth, and tho cream may bo omitted. Serve with klosso or toasted bread. Time] half an hour. Sufficient for eight persons. Fish Stock.—Cleanse well from the slime, but do not skin, two pounds of eels; cut them into pieces; also, two pounds of any river fish- carp, trout, &c.—and one pound of skate. Cover uhese with water, and let them stew gently for four hours, with an onion stuck with cloves, an anchovy, and about an ounce of salt. Strain for use, when the stock may be enriched with butter to suit the required taste. Fish Stock, Brown.—Cut in pieces a skate, a iloundor, and two small eels. Fiy them in butter a rich brown. Cover with water; add an onion stuck with cloves, three carrots, three turnips, a head of celery, salt, pepper, and nut- meg. Boil to a jelly. This stock will keep two days. Strain for use. Time, two hours to boil. Fish, To Boil.—The result of modem investigation in the culinary department proves that fish to be boiled should be plunged at once into boiling water, and not subjected to the slow cold process, whereby the nutritious juices are extracted. To ascertain if the fish so treated is done, raise the thick part of the fish; if it sepa- rates from the bone easily it is quite ready for serving. Fish, To Broil.—Make a clear fire. A little salt thi'own in will check smoke. Next see that the gridiron is well rubbed with grease (suet is best for the purpose), and that it is hot before the fish is laid upon it; turn with tongs —a knife is apt to break the fish—and remove as soon as done: the time must be regulated by the size and quality of the fish. [See Pish, Grilled.) Grilling and broiling are two dif- ferent words which signify the same thing. Fish, To Caveach.—Salmon or cod may be done in this way. If cod, bone and slice the tail part; sprinkle with salt; dry weU, and fry a nice brown. Make a pickle of vine- gar, peppercorns, mace, a few cloves, and bay- leaves ; boil till the flavour is extracted, then put by to cool. Cut a couple of small onions into slices, lay them over and between the fish; add a cupful of salad-oil to the vinegar, and pour over the fish, which should be covered. Serve in the middle of a dish, with a salad round it. Time to fry cod, ten to twelve minutes. Fish, To Cook, in Oven.—Clean and trim any small fish; put them into a deep pan, with a gill of vinegar, half a pint of melted butter, and two onions chopped small; lay in the fish with a seasoning of two tea-spoonfuls of salt and one of pepper. Bake, basting fre- quently with the sauce. Serve with the sauce in the dish. Time, twenty minutes to bake. ►Sufficient for six pounds of fish- . .^isll. To Fry.—The great excellence of iruid fish consists in its freedom from grease When practicable, the fish to be fried should be entirely immersed in fat, which has attained tho jiroper temijeruture—that is, when it is still, has a blue smoke rising from it, and fizzes and sends out air-bubbles when a little piece of broad is thrown into it. Fry of a delicate brown, and drain before the fire on an inverted sieve! Get the fish in a proper state; let it be quite dry, dredge it with flour, brush with egg, and strew well with bread-crumbs. Use oil, butter, lard, or dripping. aUo Fry, To.) Fish (vol-au-vent).—Make a puff paste; roll it out about one inch and a quarter thick, and then cut it to the desired size with a tin-cutter. Make an incision all round, an inch from the edge, with a small sharj) knife, or better still with a tin-cutter, if one of the size be at hand. Bake on a tin pan in a quick oven. When done, nicely egged over, and of a pale brown colour, cut out the centre paste without breaking the edge, and fill the vacant place with a fricassee of fish, oysters, lobster, &c. Serve the vol-au-vent on a folded napkin. Time to bake, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, puff paste. Is. 6d. per pound. Fish and Oyster Pie.—Make a season- ing of bread-crumbs, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and parsley chopped fine. Lay any remains of cold fish into a pie-dish; let them be neatly cut iuto scollops, and cleared from all skin and bone; sprinkle with pepper and salt. Make a layer of oysters, and cover with the seasoning. Mil up the dish with alternate layers of fish, oysters, and seasoning. Cover with bars of puff paste, and bake, pouring in melted butter dissolved with the liquor of the oysters. Time, according to size. When the pastry is done the pie will be ready for serving. Fisherman's Soup. — Make a soup according to the following recipe, by which means the smallest fry may be utilised: Take aU the fish caught in a day's angling— carp, dace, roach, perch, &c. Wash them in salt and water, and put them in a stewpan with a tomato, a leek, an onion, and two carrots sliced, a bunch of sweet herbs, and enough water to cover them. When boiled to a pulp, strain, and throw in as much more water as will be wanted for the soup, and boil another hour. When ready to serve, put two turnips and a head of celerj% previously boiled and cuv into small pieces, into the tureen, and flavour with a tea-spoonful each of soy and Chili vinegar. Flan (a la Caleb Balderstone).—Take good puff paste that has been set in a cool place for two or three hours, and line with it a fluted flan- mould, then lay a white paper as a lining for the crust, and fill the mould vniYi bran to keep it in proper shape. Vand3'ke the edge, and mark the Vandykes to imitate leaves. The oven should be hot to crisp the paste well, and the mould should have a movable bottom to take away the bran and paper. Fill with any fruit (preserved)—gooseberry, cherry, applesFLO FLA ( 216 ) apricots, or pears. Or the mould may be filled with fningipane, flavoured with almonds bhmched, chopped small, and stin-ed into the cream. Flame Cake (a German supper dish).— Choose a flat spongecake. Soak it with arrack or bnmdy, and set fii-e to it as it is being carried to table. SHces of spongecake piled closely together, ^vill do equally well. Flame Pudding—Beat two ounces of butter to a cream, and stir into it equal quanti- ties of flour and finely-sifted sugar, about two ounces of each. Add the beaten yolks of five eggs, and the whites whisked to a stiff froth. Thicken the whole with the crumbs of a stale spongecake, and mix well. The addition of a little grated lemon-peel, or an ounce and a half of pounded almonds, is a great improve- ment. Steam in a buttered mould, and serve immediately, or the pudding will fall. A small glass of brandy or rum should be put in the middle, and some should be thrown over the sides of the pudding. Serve directly the brandy is lit. The pudding is sufficiently cooked when it is firm in the centre. Sufficient for five or six persons. Flead Crust.—Mix one pound of flour and seven oimces of flead, finely shred, into a paste— use cold water—and beat it with a roUmg-pin until quite smooth. EoU out the paste, and put on it two ounces of butter in small bits. Fold over, and roll out for use. Flead of mutton or lamb, if shred fine, and well cleared from skin, makes a lighter pudding than suet.. A little salt should be added to the flour before mixing. Fleisch Minuten.—Cut neat slices of veal from the fiUet. Let them be very thin, and about four inches in length. Lay them in a deep dish, with a seasoning of pepper and salt, and a small glass of white wine. When they have lain three hours, put them, well dredged with flour, into a stewpan of melted butter, and add a little more wine, the juice of a lemon, and as much stock as will cover them. Simmer, with the lid closely fitted down, for five minutes only. Serve at once. Flemish. Cream.—Put a pint of hot water on half an ounce of the best isinglass. When it has dissolved, mix it with a quarter of a pint of cream and a glass of brandy, and whisk it into a light froth. Colour with currant jelly. Put it into a mould. Probable cost. Is. 3d., exclu- sive of brandy. Florentine of Oranges and Apples. —Take one pound of golden pippins; scoop and pare them ; throw them into cold water. Have ready over the fire one pint of water, into which put half a pound of lump sugar ; boil and skim; then put in the pippins and stew till clear; do not let them break. When cold, place them in a pie-dish with two table-spoonfuls of orange ^eville) marmalade, and a little lemon-peel. Cover with puff paste. Time, stew till tender. Probable cost, 8d. or lOd. Floating Island. —Into three-quarters of a pint of cream put sugar to make it very ?'weet, and the juice and rind of a lemon grated. Beat it for ten minutes. Cut French rolls into thin slices, and lay them on a round dish on the top of the cream. On this put a layer of FLOATING ISLAND. apricot or currant jam, and some more slices of roll. Pile up on this, very high, a whip made of damson jam, and the whites of four eggs. It should be rough to imitate a rock. Garnish with fruit or sweetmeats. Time, one hour and a half to prepare. Probable cost, 3s. Floster.—This American cooling drink is composed of the following ingredients, mixed with a bottle of iced soda-water :—An ounce of sugar, three slices of a lemon, six peach leaves, a gill of sherry, and half a gill of noyeau. Put into the bowl a good-sized piece of ice. Flounders (au Gratin).—Cut up parsley, shallot, and small button-mushrooms, very finely. Fry them in butter, with a seasoning FLOUNDERS. of salt and pepper. Cover the bottom of a tin flat baking-dish, previously buttered, with the herbs, and lay on them a flounder, neatly trimmed, or fillets of any flat fish. Strew bread-crumbs thickly over, and bits of butter on the top of all. Moisten with white wine. Cook carefully. Crisp the top with a sala- mander. Serve very hot, and with a squeeze of lemon over the dish. Time, twenty minutes. Probable cost of flounders, 6d. to Is. each. Sufficient, one for each person. Flounders, Boiled.—Lay the fish in a kettle, with salt and water in the proportion of six ounces to each gallon, and a little vinegar. Let the water boil up again, and then remove it to the side to simmer till done. The fish must not boil fast, or they will break. Time to simmer, ten to fifteen minutes. Probable cost of flounders, from 6d. to Is.( 216 ) FON FLO Flounders, Fricasseed. — Put the liquor of a dozen oystois into a stowpiin with a ghissof whito wino, and a f>-ill of whito Htock. Sininior for ton minutes, add a gill of croam, and tliickon with flour and butter, then add the oysters. Have veady fillets of flounders or phiice that have been fncd crisp and brown in butter or dripping. Lay them in the centre of a hot dish, pour the sauce round them, and serve. Time, ton minutes to fry. rrobabio cost, 6d. to Is. Sufficient, one for each person. Flounders, Fried.—Lay them in sjilt and water tor an hour or more to get rid of the muddy flavour, or rub them well on all sides with salt, which will make the fish firm. Dry thorn, dip into egg, and cover witli bread-crumbs. Fry in oil or boiling fat, .and serve on a hot napkin. Garnish with crisped parsley. Time, five to ten minutes to fry. Probable cost, 6d. to Is. Flounders, Fried (another way).—Rub the fish well with salt, and let them stay two houi-s. Then shake off the salt and lay the fish in a aoit cloth for an hour. Flour all over and fry in boiling fat. Send to table on a napkin, garnished with crisped parsley. Time, eight to ten minutes. Probable cost, 4d.to 6d. Sufiicient, one for each person. Flounders, Stewed.—Wash and trim the fish; put it into a stewpan with about a pint of some good gravy, a glass of claret or port, a small tea-spoonful of allspice and black pepper mixed, three cloves, or a little mace. Stew the fish in this mixture till done; then remove it, and thicken the gravy, adding a little Chili vinegar, essence of anchovy, pepper, and salt. Strain, and send it to table pomred over the fish. Time to stew fish, ten to twenty minutes; to boil gravy, eight to ten minutes. Flour, Browned. — This flour wiU be found an excellent substitute for roux, which the French employ in the composition of their dishes. The flour is simply browned by placing it on a baking-tin in the oven or before the fire, and turning it frequently to prevent its being burnt. Blended with butter, it colours and thickens soup. If kept in an ordinary dredg- ing-box it wiU be found convenient for gravies or any made dishes. Flour Paste.—A common paste may be made by simply boiling flour and water, but one that wiU keep good, and be useful for various purposes, should be made as follows :— Dissolve an ounce of alum in a pint and a half of warm water ; add flour to make it as thick as cream, and a tea-spoonful of powdered resin. Boil till stiff, stirring well. This wall keep twelve months. Flour Pudding.—Make with the follow- ing ingredients :—One quart of new milk, eight yolks and four whites of eggs. Beat the eggs with part of the milk, into which stir four large spoonfuls of flour; add the rest of the milk, and flavour with nutmeg, essence of ratafia, and sugar to taste. Mix well, and boil -n,e hour in a buttered basin. Probable C08t, : "d. Sufficient for two puddings. I ■ - Flour Pudding, Hasty.— Make a HUKjolli Imtterwith two ounces of fine flour and a i)int of milk. Boil it in a clean saucepan over a slow fire until quite thick: add sugar to sweeten, half an ounce of butter, a few drops of the essence of i-atafia, and a little grated nut- meg. Lot it stay till cold; then lioat into the batter three eggs, and bake in a dish lined or not with thin paste. A layer of marmalade, or any other preserve, on the paste at the bottom of the dish is much approved of ; or the pudding may be oaten simply boiled as above, and served hot with cold butter, sugar, and nutmeg. Time to bake, hfilf an hour. Probable cost, 7d. Suflicient for two or three persons. Flummery.—Melt two ounces of gela- tine in a pint and a half of water; add a wine-glass of sherry and half a glass of brandy, with the juice of three lemons, and sugar enough to sweeten. Stir into the liquid when cold a pint of double cream which has been whisked until it began to thicken. If mixed while warm the lemon- juice wiU curdle it. Moulds should be dipped in water or oiled, and the flummery should be allowed to set a day before turning out. Blanched almonds, slit lengthwise, stuck round the flummery, or preserved cherries, look well. Probable cost, 3s. for this quantity. Sufficient for two moulds. Flummery, French. — Dissolve two ounces of isinglass in a little milk; then add a quart of cream, flavoured with two spoonfuls of orange-flower water, and sugar to sweeten. Stir the flummery till cool, and strain into a mould. To be served turned out on a dish, with baked pears placed round it. Gelatine may be used instead of isinglass. Time, quarter of an hour to boil. Probable cost, Ss. Folkestone Pudding Pies.—Put two laui'el-leaves and the peel of a small lemon in half a pint of milk in a stewpan, over a slow fii'e, to extract the flavour of the laurel and lemon. Mix three ounces of groimd rice in another half-pint of mUk, which add to the flavoured milk, the latter being first strained. Boil, stirring all the time, for a quarter of an hour. Remove the mixture from the fire, and have ready six well-beaten eggs, three oimces of butter, and a quarter of a pound of sugar; beat all together first, and stir into the rice mixture tiU thoroughly blended. Fill patty- pans lined with puff paste, and strew currants lightly over each. Bake in a moderate oven. Probable cost. Is. 3d. Fondu.—Boil three-quarters of a pint of milk and dissolve an ounce of butter in it. Stir into it a quarter of a pint of cold milk in which two ounces of arrowroot have been rubbed smooth. Boil till thick, then add the yolks of four eggs, half a table-spoonful of salt, a drachm of cayenne, and four ounces of grated Parmesan. Pour in the whites of si.x eggs whisked to a light froth, and bake at once, without opening the oven till done. The dish should "be lined with a buttered paper rising three inches above the top, as the fondu will rise very much. It must be sent to table immediately, for it falls as quickly as it rises. (See also Cheese Fondu.)PON 1217) FOB Pondu (il ritalionno).—Gratohalf a pound of I'aniifsan, Gniy^re, or any good diy cheese, and stir over the tire half a pint of cream, with enough Horn- to thicken it. When of the con- sistency of melted butter, add the cheese and a little salt. Mix till the heat has gone off, then blend with the above ingi-edients four well-beaten yolks of eggs, and last of all five whites whipped to a hnn froth. Bake in a papered tin and in a hot oven, filling the tin to only half its depth. The fondu should rise very high, and be served immediately, or it will fall, and the appearance be spoiled. Time to bake, twenty minutes. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for five or six persons. Pondu (en Caisses).—This fondu may be made in any form desired—small paper cases, moulds, or tart-tins. Pound in a moi-tar, with egg to moisten, equal quantities of Swiss, Par- mesan, and cream cheese (a quarter of a pound of each). Moisten with five eggs; mix the egg gradually while pounding. Bake in a hot oven, allowing time to give the fondu a rich colour. Serve quickly. Time, about ten minutes to bake. Porcemeat, Almond.—Beat up the yolks of three eggs with a quarter of a pint of good cream, and flavour with a little nutmeg. Blanch and pound in a mortar three ounces of sweet almonds, using white of egg to moisten. Add these, with three-quarters of a pound of light bread-crumbs, and three ounces of butter broken into small bits, to the egg mixtui'e. Stir in, lastly, the whites of the eggs whisked to a solid froth, and fill either capon or turkey. Porcemeat Balls.—Chop a quarter of a pound of beef suet, a little lemon-peel, and parsley. Mix with a basin of bread-crumbs, and flavour with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Moisten with the yolks of two eggs, roll in flom-, and make up into small balls. Bake in a hot oven till crisp. This recipe will do for fowls. The addition of a little ham, chopped or pounded, will be found a considerable improve- ment. Porcemeat Balls, Brain. —Clean and soak the brains in lukewarm water for three hours, then boil. When cold, poimd them in a mortar with a little flour, some chopped parsley, salt, and pepper. Bind with raw egg, and make into small baUs. Fry a light brown, and drop them into the tureen. Time, ten minutes to boil. Porcemeat BaUs, Curry. — Pound together bread-crumbs, hard-boUed yolks of eggs, a small quantity of butter, and a season- mg of curry powder and salt. Make into small balls. Time to fry, two or three minutes. Porcemeat BaUs, Egg. — Pound the hard-boiled yolks of half a dozen eggs with some chopped parsley, a tea-spoonful of floirr, a little pepper, salt, and cayenne. Moisten with egg, and make the paste into small balls. Boil for two minutes before using in soup or other dishes. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for one tureen of soup. Porcemeat Balls for Mock-Turtle OOUps. —The delicate French preparation, Panada, wiU, if used in the composition of those balls, be found a gi'cat improvement. Prepare it thus :—Soak the crumb of two or three rolls. Put it into a small saucepan by the side of the fire, with enough pale rich gravy to cover it. When sufficiently boiled, squeeze oflE the moisture, put the panada into an enamelled saucepan, and stir with a wooden spoon till dry; then mix with it the yolks of two un- beaten eggs, and let it cool for use. Pound in a mortar four ounces of veal, free from gristle, bone, and skin; add the panada to this, with three ounces of fresh butter. Season with nut- meg, mace, salt, and cayeime. If liked, a little lean ham and more seasoning may be used. Koll into balls, and boil before adding to the eoup. Time, twelve minutes to boil. Porcemeat, Chestnut.—Remove the outer skin from some chestnuts (they should be ripe and sound). Boil them for two or three minutes to get off the inner skin. Peel them, and to preserve their colour, throw them into cold water; drain and weigh them. Stew six ounces of them gently for about twenty minute3 in veal gravy. Let them get cold, pound them till smooth with an equal quantity of butter, or half their weight in fat bacon, and add two ounces of bread-crumbs, and a little salt, lemon-rind, and nutmeg. Bind the mixture together with the unbeaten yolks of two eggs. If this forcemeat is formed into cakes, these should be dipped into flour before being fried. Time to fry, fifteen minutes. Porcemeat, Prench, Boiled Calf's Udder for. — The calf's udder is used in Prench cookery instead of butter. It is first boiled, then pounded, and passed through a sieve, when it is fit for mixing in the composi- tion of their exquisitely delicate forcemeats. Porcemeat for Baked Pike.—Prepare three ounces of bread-crumbs from a stale loaf, shred two ounces of suet, and mince eight or ten bearded oysters. Put these together into a stewpan, with a flavouring of mace (pounded), salt, and pepper. Moisten with the liquor from the oysters, and six table-spoonfuls of thick cream. Bind with the yolks of two eggs, and stir over the fii-e till the forcemeat thickens. Stuff this forcemeat iato the pike, and sew the fish up securely. Time to thicken forcemeat, four or five minutes; to bake pike, one horn-, more or less. Sufficient for one pike. Porcemeat for Carp.—Prepare from a stale loaf half a pound of crumbs, and mince one dozen oysters, divested of beards; add two ounces of finely-shred suet, and the same of bacon or ham, and good fresh butter. Flavour -with salt, nutmeg, a dessert-spoonful of savour)' herbs, and a little parsley, all of which should be minced small. Blend together with three weU-beaten eggs. Stuff the fish, and sew up securely. Probable cost, 2s. Suf- ficient for one fish. Porcemeat for Cold Pasties.—Foi savoury pasties, to be eaten cold, use a force- meat of fowl—an old fowl will answer this purpose. Strip off the sldn, and clear the flesh from the bones; pound the flesh in a mortar; soak some white bread ia milk, squeeze it dry,FOR POE ( 218 ) and rub with it throo ouikos of butter, in the proportion of half a pouuii of broad to thiu quantity; add tho moat, with a flavouring of nutmog and salt. Bind with four yolks of oggs, and inuko up into balls for pastiiis or soups. A littlo ham, cut into thin slicos and rollod round the balls separately, is a groat iniprovomont to a white meat pasty. For game or beef pasties uso pork, game, or liver. If parsley is liked, some nuiy bo minced and pounded with the meat. Forcemeat for Fish, Soups, or Stews.—Pound tho flesh of a middle-sized lobster, half an anchovy, a piece of boiled celery, the yolk of a hard-boilod egg, salt, pepper, and cayenne to taste. Mix these with a tea-cupful of bread-crumbs, two ounces of butter (oiled), and two raw eggs. Make into small balls, and fry a pale brown in butter. Two or three oysters may be added. Probable cost, 3s. to 4s. [See also Forcemeat for Baked Pike.) Forcemeat for Game.—Take the livers of the game, and pound them with haK their weight of beef suet and good fat bacon, mixed together; season with salt, pepper, and powdered cloves. Use a little of the meat of game if enough livers cannot be obtained ; moisten with cream, and bind with the yolks of two eggs. If the fox'cemeat be required stiff, stew over a gentle fire, keeping it constantly stirred until the proper consistency is gained. Time to stew, about ten or twelve minutes. Forcemeat for Goose.—Chop very finely two oimces of onions, pour boiling water on them, and cover the basin with a plate. When they have steamed a few minutes, pour off the water, and add the same weight of bread- crumbs and the parboiled liver, or a Httle beef minced small, with half a dozen sage-leaves, or more if liked. Flavour with salt, pepper, and cayenne. Some cooks boO. the onions, but as this mode takes from the freshness of the force- meat, the above preparation of onions will be found to please most lovers of goose. Butter may be used, bits of it being mixed with the forcemeat, but a well-conditioned goose will not require butter. Forcemeat for Hare.—Parboil the li^'er of the hare, if sound, and mince it finely; also chop a quarter of a pound of suet and rather less of lean bacon, which should be shred fine, that the forcemeat may not require to be pounded in a mortar. Mix these ingredients together, and add six ounces of bread-crumbs, a dessert- spoonful of parsley, a little thyme and marjoram mixed, salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Bind with two or three yolks of eggs, which must be well beaten before being used. Stuff" the inside of the hare, and make balls to be fried a nice brown. Forcemeat for Meat Pies or Ra- goi^ts.—Take a quarter of a pound of ham, the same of cold veal, and of beef suet, a chive or two, some parsley, cayenne, salt, and a very little lemon-peel, with half a pint of bread- crumbs. Pound all together in a mortar (pre- viously chopping the meat). Form the force- meat into a mass -with two raw eggs. The flavour may be varied according to taste; an ,'^nchovy or oysters mav -be added, if liked. Time, about one hour to prepare. Probable cost, Is. Od. Forcemeat for Pheasant.—Take the livers of two fowls; see that they are sound, and that tho gall has been properly cleared away. Parboil them, and then pound in a mortar, with half a pound of grated ham, cooked, and witliout fat, thi-ee or four truffles, or mush- rooms, if the former caimot be had, half a tea- spoonful of minced parsley, and a shallot. Flavour with pepper, salt if required, and add a little nutmeg. Blend with the forcemeat three ounces of butter, and stuff' the bird. Time, five minutes to boil livers. Probable cost, exclusive of truffles. Is. 4d. Suflicicnt for one pheasant. Forcemeat for Pigeons. — Stir two ounces of butter till it is almost a cream ; blend with it foui" ounces of grated bread-crumbs, add a little parsley minced fine, lemon-peel, and nutmeg grated, with salt and pepper to taste. Bind with one beaten egg. Probable cost, 6d. Forcemeat for Quenelles. — This forcemeat may be composed of chicken, veal, game, or fish. Scrape the meat from a couple of rabbits, or the lean meat from a knuckle of veal, pound it in a moi-tar, and pass it through a wii-e sieve. Put back into the mortar three- quai'ters of a pound of meat, with half a poimd of good butter, and the same of milk panada ; mix, and poimd all together. Add to it a flavouring of pepper, salt, nutmeg, and lemon- peel, both grated, and continue to pound while adding four or five well-beaten eggs. Much depends on the care employed in the prepara- tion of this forcemeat; it may be used as a stuffing, or moulded into quenelles. Forcemeat for Roast Pig.—Parboil a small onion, or two if the flavour be liked. Chop them very fine, with about half an ounce of powdered sage, five or six oimces of bread- crumbs, and a quarter of a poimd of good fresh butter. Flavoiir highly with cayenne pepper and salt. Bind with egg. Onions are not always used for this forcemeat; they may be left out altogether. Forcemeat for Turkey (Roast).— Take of lean veal, or the flesh of an old fowl, a couple of ounces; free it from skin and sinew. Pound it in a mortar, with two ounces of shred suet, the same of bread-crumbs, a dessert- spoonful of minced parsley, a large tea-spoonful of lemon-thjone, an onion, and the grated rind of half a lemon. Flavour delicately with pepper and salt, and pound and bind together ■with two beaten eggs. A richer and better forcemeat is made by the addition of ham, tongue, ancho^'y, or the minced flesh, without the beards, of a dozen oysters. Pork sausage- meat is commonly used to stuff the crop. Forcemeat for Turkeys.—Take equal quantities of lean veal and pork, and mince them finely together; also cut into pieces a parboiled veal sweetbread, and mix with about three-quarters of a pound of each of the former meats. Add half a pound of bread panada, and tho same of warmed butter. Flavour with a littlo nutmeg, salt, pepner, and half an ounce ofFOR ( 219) grated lemon rind. Bind with three beaten eggs, and fill both crop and body. Forcemeat of Beef—Take cold mashed potato, some slices of beef minced tine, a few savoui-y herbs, popper, and salt. Mix these with two eggs to a paste. Make into balls. Fry in butter a rich bro^vn. Garnish with fried parsley. Forcemeat of Fish.—Clear away the skin and bone from tiubot, brill, or any sohd fish; mince one pound of the flesh very fine. Stew an onion in butter, and when tender, pound it in a mortar vnth. four ounces of butter, broken into bits. Add six ounces of bread, previously soaked in milk and squeezed diy; a couple of eggs, which should be well beaten, pepper, salt, and nutmeg; and when all is well mixed, stir in the fish, and make up into balls to be fried or boiled. Previous to mixing the fish with the other ingredients it should be passed through a wdi-e sieve. Forcemeat of G-ame.—Clear the meat from the bones, and mince it with a quarter of a poimd of fat bacon to each pound of game. Flavoiu- with shallot, capers, lemon-peel, and a verj' few leaves of taiTagon, all of which should be minced very fine. Soak some bread, and press out all the moisture; add it, with the yolks of three eggs. If the bacon be salt, be careful not to over-salt the forcemeat; pepper to taste; and stii- in the frothed whites of eggs before using. Forcemeat of Liver.—To one pound of caK's liver allow a quarter of a pound of fat bacon; chop them both separately. Stew in butter, but do not browTi, a shallot, an onion, and, if Uked, a small clove of gai-lic. Cover the stewpan until tender. Press out the moistvire from some bread which has been soaked in water, and add it to the butter in the pan; stir it to a stiff paste, adding more butter if re- quii-ed. Remove the paste to a mortar, and pound it with the chopped liver, &c., a couple of eggs beaten wthout the whites, a small quantity of allspice or nutmeg, pepper, and salt. When well pounded together, pass the force- meat through a wire sieve. Forcemeat of Mushroom.—Procure four ounces of young just opened mushrooms. Peel them, cut ofi: the stems, and remove the brown part. Dissolve two ounces of butter in a stewpan, and let them simmer very gently over a slow fire, vnth. a slight flavouring of mace and cayenne. Spread them over a dish, placed in a slanting position to drain away the mois- ture. When cold, mince them, and add four ounces of fine bread-crumbs, a small seasoning of salt, cayenne, mace, and nutmeg, a piece of butter, and the yolks of a couple of eggs to bind. Throw in as much of the mushroom gravy as will make the forcemeat of the proper consistency. It will be greatly improved if the whole mixture be poimded in a mortar. Make •nto balls, poach, and throw into soup ; or fry, and serve round a dish of roast fowls or minced veal. It is also good as a stuiffing for boiled fowls, partridges, &c. Time to stew in butter, seven minutes; to poach balls, six minutes; to fry, six or seven minutes, Forcemeat of Onion.—An accompani- ment for roast turkey or fowl. After peeling, scoop out the inside carefully, and fill up the vacancy with forcemeat. Bake the onions in the oven. Forcemeat of Oyster.—Get very fresh oysters, beard them, and cut them into quarters. Grate bread enough to fill half a pint, and one ounce and a half of finely-shred suet or butter, which should be broken into bits. Mix all these ingxedients together with a good flavouring of herbs, and a seasoning of salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Bind with two well-beaten eggs. This forcemeat is for boiled or roast tui-key. It may be made also into balls and used as a garnish. Eighteen oysters are suffi- cient for one turkey. Forcemeat of Pasty.—Take an equal weight of bacon and lean pork, a pound of each, and two pounds of veal. Lay them in slices in a stewpan, with just enough water to keep the meat from sticking to the bottom, two ounces of butter, a shred onion, and a tea- spoonful of white pepper. Cover the lid closely, and steam over a slow fire till the meat is tender, then remove it to a dish to be minced very finely. Pour a cupful of milk into the stewpan with the gravj'^, and season with salt, pepper, a very little mace, and a few minced green herbs. Beat up half a dozen eggs, and stir them in; and lastly, mix the meat well with it. Have ready a round form lined with paste, thi-ow the mixture in, and cover with the paste lid, which should have a hole in the top. Bake in a moderate oven, and do not turn out until cold. When served, cut through like a cake. Forcemeat of Sausage. — Prepare a sausage-meat, in the proportion of two parts of lean pork to one of fat. Take equal quantities of this and bread-criunbs; add two ounces of butter, a seasoning of salt, pepper, and a drachm of mace. Pound all together in a mortar, and bind with the yolks of a couple of eggs. Forcemeat of Shrimp.—Clear a pint of shrimps from their shells, and chop them finely. Mix with an equal quantity of bread-crumbs. Season with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of mace. Pound into a smooth paste, with two or three ounces of butter. Bind with the yolk of an egg. Use this forcemeat to stufl: any fresh water fish. A pike, for example, if stuffed and baked, will be found excellent. Forcemeat of Veal.—Chop lean veal, free from skin or fat, and then pound it in a mortar; add a third of its weight of butter or suet, and the same of fine bread, which should be first soaked in cold milk and squeezed dry. Pound all in the mortar, with a flavouring of salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Bind with the yolks of two eggs, and make the paste into little baUs, or use it as a stufiing. Four-fruit Jelly.—The fruits selected for this excellent jelly are those which will yield the most juice. Take of fine red-currants, half a pound, of chemes. raspberries, and straw- berries, each half that weight; get out all thojrVOW you ( 220 ) iuice over a slow firo, aud Btniiu it from the iruit. Mako a syrup with throo-quarturs of a pound of loaf Hugar, aud as much watur aH, with tho juictj. will mako a quart. Diaaolvo au ounce of isinglass, clarify, and simmor all over tho tiro for about hvo miuutos. Add a glass of cura(,'oa, aud strain into a mould. Tho jolly should ho icod hoforo boing turned out to serve. Probable cost, 28. To clarify iolly, see CaM's Foot JeUy. Four-fruit Liquor (a pleasant drink for sunmier).—Tuko one pound of raspberries, one pound of black-currants, one pound and a half of strawberries, and one pound and a half of Morella cherries. Put them into a deep jar, and cover them closely. Place tho jar in a saucepan, half filled with boiling Avater, and simmor very gently for half an hour. Take the pan from the fire, and pass its contents through a jelly-bag, being very careful not to squeeze the fruit; indeed, if a little of the juice be left in it, it may be used for common tarts. Measure the juice, and put it into a deep jar, and for every quart add six ounces of loaf sugar which has loeen dissolved in half a pint of water. Add half the cherry kernels, slightly bruised, cover the jar to keep out the dust, and let it stand for i^enty-four hours. Stir into it an equal quantity of brandy, pass the liquid again through the jelly-bag, and bottle for use. When taken, two table-spoonfuls of this liquor should be added to half a tumblerful of iced water. Fowl.—It may be serviceable to point out the features which should be looked for when a fowl is purchased for cooking purposes. Chickens, on account of their age, can hardly be anything else than tender. Capons should have a fat vein beneath the wing, a thick belly and rump, a short and pale comb, and smooth legs. Pullets are at their best in the spring. Cocks should have short spurs, smooth legs, and a short, smooth, bright comb. Hens should be full-breasted and smooth-legged. Fowl (a la Bechamel).—Have ready a pint of bechamel sauce; pour about half of it over a couple of fowls, boiled according to the recipe given {see Fowl, Boiled); the other half should be thinned with a little stock, and served in a tureen. Send to table hot, with a garnish of brocoli in bunches round the dish. Time, from half an horn- to one hour. Probable cost, 7s. per pair. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Fowl (a la Carlsford, entree).—Bone a fowl, without making an opening down the back ; fill up the vacancies made by the removal of the bones with a forcemeat, and put a roll of it in tho body. A nicely-seasoned sausage-meat may also be added, and placed on either side. Truss firmly with slender skewers, and tie the bird to the spit. Baste frequently, and roast it a whole hour. An ordinary veal stuffing may be used; but a mushroom forcemeat, or any other delicately prepared ono, wiU be an improvo- . ment. Fowl (it la Fran9aiso).—Remove the breast- bones from a couple of fine fowls, and draw the strings from tho legs; truss them as for boiling. Mix somo Icumju-juice with a lump ol butter, which insert in tlxe fowls beioro placing thorn into a stowpau, then cover them with strips of fat bacon, cut very thin. Mako a sauce as follows:—Cut equal quantities of veal and fat bacon, ono pound of each, into dice, with (;nough ham to flavour. Fry the meat, without browning it, in a good quantity of butter, season with salt, popper, and add a clovt;, half a bay-leaf, a few sprigs of parsley, and a little thyme, with as much boiling water as wUl be required for gravy to stow tho fowls. Stew till the flavour of the herbs is extraoted, then strain into the stewpan. Keep a brisk heat on tho cover of the stewpan, and a very slow fire underneath. When suffi- ciently done, di-ain, and serve tho fowls with rich brown sauce, and a scarlet tongue between them. Time, three-quarters of an hour to stew the fowls. Probable cost, 7s. Sufficient for seven or eight persons. Fowl (a la Hollandaise).—Take out the breast-bone of a large but young fowl, and fill up the space with a forcemeat composed of the following ingredients :—Half a pint of bread- crumbs, an ounce and a half of finely-shred suet or butter, a small parboiled onion, or a few oysters, bearded, and cut not too small, pepper, salt, and an egg to bind. Make a batter as for fritters, and when the fowl has roasted half its time, pour the batter over, and when drj', pour more; continue until it is thickly coated, and of a nice brown colour. Serve with melted butter and lemon pickle. While roasting, a thickly buttered paper should be fastened over the fowl, and only removed when the batter ia used. Time, one hour altogether. Sufficient for three or four persons. Fowl (a la Marengo).—Pour four table- spoonfuls of the best Lucca oil into a stewpan, and cut a fowl into pieces, which dredge with flour. Lay them into the stewpan and brown over a moderate fire, turning each piece, that all may be of a good colour. A pint of stock, or water, should now be added, with a piece of garlic about the size of a pea, a dozen and a half, or more, of small button-mushrooms, salt, pepper, and a tea-spoonful of sugar. Simmer gently for half an hour, and do not skim away the oil, but leave it floating on the sauce. When done, arrange the joints nicely on a dish, and reduce the sauce by boiling till it is sufficiently thick, then serve it over the fowl. Time, fifty minutes altogether. Sufficient for four or five persons. Fowl (a la Mayonnaise).—Cut up the joints of a cold roast fowl. On a dish place a layer of picked lettuce; on this place a layer of fowl, sprinkling, as you proceed, with hard-boiled eggs, anchovies, cucumber, and capers, all chopped together; now put cress, chopped radishes, dry mustard; again lettuce; and on the top of the dish arrange the breast and wings of the fowl; garnish with hard-boiled eggs, in rings, and beetroot; and pour over the whole a sauce mayonnaise {see Mayonnaise Sauce). Fowl (il la Milanese).—Grate two ounces of Parmesan cheese, and mix with bread-crumbs. Cut a fowl into fillets, and dip each fillet into the crumbs ; roll them in egg-yolk, well beaten,FOW (221) FOW and then again into bread-cnunbs, seasoned wth. pepper and sjilt. Fry them in butter until of a nice brown colour, and have ready a puree of tomato sauce to serve them on. Time, twenty nunutes to fry. Probable cost, 4s. Sufficient for thiee or four persons. Fowl (a la Remouladc).—Truss a fine fowl for boiling, lay sliced lemon on its breast, and tie slices of bacon over all. Put it into a stew- pan with some good stock, and put with it a carrot, an onion, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Let it stew gently till done enough. Take it out, and when cold cut it up into convenient- sized pieces. Place all in a salad-dish, with a sauce made of two hard-boiled yolks of eggs, rubbed till smooth, and mixed with salt and pepper, five large spoonfuls of oil, and two of tiirragon vinegar. Garnish with French beans and slices of hard-boiled egg intermixed. Pro- bable cost, 7s. or 8s. Sufficient for six persons. Fowl (a la Tartare).—Split open a large fowl into halves, and press it flat into a dish of clarified butter, the feet having been previously taken off, and the legs bent in. In ten minutes fry it in butter a pale brown, cool, then cover with fine bread-crumbs and beaten egg. Dip the fowl once more into the clarified butter and broil over a slow fire, taking care that it does not bum. It should be turned often. Serve with a brown gravy, flavom'ed with lemon-juice, and send sauce a la Tartare to table in a tureen. Time, twenty minutes to broil. Pro- bable cost, 3s. 6d. Sufficient for four persons. Fowl, Apicius Sauce for.—Thick sauce for a boiled chicken. Put the following ingre- dients into a mortar:—Aniseed, dried mint, and lazar root (similar to assafcetida); cover them with vinegar; add dates, pour in liquamen, oil, and a small quantity of mustard seeds; re- duce all to a proper thickness with port wine warmed; pour this over the chicken, which should previously have been boiled in aniseed water. Fowl, Blanquette of.—Put into a stew- pan half a pint of white sauce and a quarter of a pint of broth; when boiling, add some neat pieces of cold fowl and slices of tongue boiled, season with pepper and salt, cover closely, and let the fowl get hot in the sauce, but do not let it boil. Five minutes before serving stir in the well- beaten yolks of two eggs and about one table- spoonful of strained lemon-juice. One fowl sufficient for four persons. Fowl, Boiled.—Truss the fowl firmly, and boil slowly in a saucepan of hot water. The slower it boils and the better it is skimmed the plumper and whiter it wiU be. Boiled tongue, ham, or bacon should accompany it. Place the fowl on a hot dish, and pour over it bechamel, parsley and butter, oyster or mushroom sauce, with some more sauce in a tureen. Time : large fowl, one hour; moderate- sized one, three-quarters. Probable cost, 38. 6d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Fowl, Boiled with Rice.—Into some clear broth put an onion, pepper, salt, and mace; stew the fowl very gently in this for half azi ho-r; then addlialf a pound of rice, well washed; simmer till this is quite tender, then remove the rice, and place on a hot sieve to drain; dish the fowl, and place rice all round it. Serve with melted butter and parsley for sauce; do not use too much broth. Time, one hour or longer. Fowl, Boned and Stuffed.-Pound together in a mortar, after being minced, equal quantities of fat bacon and lean ham (two ounces of each), and a double weight of veal. Mix a small cup of bread-crumbs, and season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Bind with the yolks of two eggs. Bone a fine fowl, without disfiguiing the skin, press this forcemeat into it; tie it into a nice shape, and stew in some white stock. It may be served with any white sauce, and with sliced lemon as a garnish. Time, one hour to stew. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. Suffi- cient for four or five persons. Fowl, Boudin of (a la Eeine). — Take the whole of the white meat to be found on a couple of roast fowls, clear it well from skin and gristle, and mince smaU. Pound it well, and with a wooden spoon force it through a wire sieve. Make some white sauce with an ounce of butter, two ounces of flour, and a gill of stock. Put three table-spoonfuls of this sauce ■^ith the chicken, then stir in the yolks of two eggs, and pepper and salt, and beat over the fire till thick. Spread the mixture on a dish; when cold form it into large quenelles (see Quenelles), and poach these in the usual way. Serve round mashed potatoes to keep them firm, and with white sauce made from the last recipe given under Bechamel. Fowl, Braised.-—FUl a nice young fowl with forcemeat, after removing the breast-bone. Put it into a stewpan, with a pint of broth, two glasses of white wine, any available poultry trimmings and bones, an onion stuck with cloves, a piece of carrot, and two or three blades of mace, pepper, and salt. Lay thin slices of bacon over the fowl, and envelope it in a delicate cloth. Cover the braising-pan over, and place it on a moderate fire. In an hour's time take out the fowl, and brown it in the oven. Strain the gravy in the stewpan, boU, and reduce it to a glaze, with which glaze the fowl. Garnish with a fricassee of mush- rooms and truffles if these are at hand. Suffi- cient for three or four persons. Fowl, Braised, with Beef and Chestnuts.—Take a piece of the upper side of the round of beef, about one pound and a half, and rub it with a pickle made with the following ingredients :—Half a tea-spoonful of salt, and the same of pepper, a pinch of cayenne, a salt-spoonful of mustard, the same of gi-ated nutmeg, a piece of garlic, about the size of a pea, half a gUl of some good sauce, either Worcester or Harvey, a table-spoonful of oil, and the strained juice of a lemon. Let the beef stay in and be basted with this pickle for ■ twenty-four hours. Put a piece of butter in a stewpan, with the heart of a celery-root, a carrot, and two shallots. When drained from the pickle, lay in the beef, and place a fine fat fowl, trussed for boiling, on it; cover tlie bretist with butter, and six goocl-Kiznd sJicos of( 222 ) FOW lacon, and add, lastly, thi-ee-quarters of a pint of water, and tho sauce. Buato the fowl fre- quently ; throw into the giavy one dozen and a half of peeled chestnuts, find be careful not to stew too quickly. When it has simmorod about two hours and a half take up the fowl, put the bacon round it, and pour a rich white sauce over it. Dish the beef separately, with the vegetables and gravy. Servo both dishes at once. Probable cost, 8s. 6d. Sufficient for six or sovon persons. Fowl, Braised, with Tomatoes.—Put a stewpan over tho tii-e, and when hot, rub a clove of garlic over the bottom two or throe times. Lay a fowl in the pan, prepared as if for boiling, tho breast being covered with well-buttered paper. Use the best part of a quarter of a pound of butter on the paper, and pour in a large breakfast-cupful of strong white gravy. Bring the gravy to a boil, and then draw it aside to simmer gently. Baste frequently with the gravy for three-quarters of an hour, then add half a dozen tomatoes sliced, a shallot minced, salt, pepper, a grain of cayenne, the quarter of a salt-spoonful of powdered ginger, the same of nutmeg, and half a salt-spoonful of flour of mustard. Put the tomatoes in last, with the juice, strained, of a large lemon, and a wine-glassful of Marsala. Let it come to a boil, but continue to simmer slowly, and baste for an hour or more. Serve the fowl on a hot dish, with the sauce poured over. Time to simmer fowl in gravy, two hours. Sufficient for a dish. Fowl, Broiled.—This is a hasty and very excellent dish, suitable for the supper-table, to be had in perfection at Windsor, Cookham, &c. Take off the head of a young fowl, and when the bird is dead, draw and plunge it into boiling water. Remove the skin and feathers together. Split it up the back, and lay the inside downwards on a gridiron over a clear fire. Baste frequently, and pepper lightly on all sides. When sufficiently done, put it on a hot dish, sprinkle salt, and rub with butter. Serve with mushroom, tomato, or liver and lemon sauce. The fowl should be turned over when half cooked. Time to broil, thirty-five minutes. Fowl, Broiled, with Mushroom Sauce.—Divide a large fowl into quai-ters, broil as in last recipe, basting plentifully with butter. To do this rub with butter tied in muslin, pepper lightly, and season to taste with salt. Make a sauce as follows :—Stew two dozen button-mushrooms and a slice of lean ham with a little butter; add some brown gravy, about three-quarters of a pint, pepper, and salt, and simmer till the mushrooms are tender. Thicken to the consistency of cream, and add a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice, and half that quantity of sugar. Serve with the sauce round the fowls. Time to broil the quarters of fowl, about thirty-five minutes. Probable cost, 38. 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Fowl, Capolitade.—Boil down the bones, skin, and trimmings of a roast or boiled fowl, with a bunch of parsley, a little thyme, half a bay-leaf, and a couple of onions sliced. Cut up the meat into small pieces, put it into a atcwpaii and when the gravy has boiled for half an hour, strain, and add a little roux, and a wine- glassful of sherry. Throw this 8au(;e, boiling, over the fowl in the stewpan, and let it slitiid by tho side of the tire to got hot thi'ougli; then sciuooze in the juice of a lemon. Send tho fowl to table garnished with sippets of toasted bread. Fo^yl, Croquettes of,—Mix with every half-pound of soUd fowl (free from bone or gristle), two ounces of scraped ham. Make half a pint of gravy, by boUing the Ijones and rejected pieces. Fry two or tlu-ee sliallots in a little butter, add the gravy, and season with powdered mace, pepper, salt, and half a tea- spoonful of pounded sugar. Rub up a table- spoonful of flour with two ounces of butter; put this and the mince to the gravy, and wheu thick, stii- in the yolks of two well-beaten eggs. Make into balls as soon as cold, and fry a nice brown. Roll them in egg and bread-crumbs before frying. Time, ten minutes to fry. Fowl, Curried.—Cut up a young fowl; roll each piece in a mixture of curry-powder and flour, three dessert-spoonfuls of each. Cut four large onions into rings, and divide the rings into bits of an inch in length; fry a light brown in two ounces of butter, with a small piece of garlic, if approved of. Add the pieces of fowl, and two more ounces of butter. Put all into a stewpan, and stew gently with hot milk, broth, or water, half a pint. Season to taste with salt, and cover well. The sauce should be reduced one-third, to which squeeze in the juice of >ial'f a lemon, Ijef ore being sent to table. Rice should accompany this dish, either roxmd the dish or separate. Fowl, Curried (a I'lndienne).—Great care is required in the preparation of this ex- cellent curry. Take a tender j'oung fowl, pluck, draw, and singe it in the usual way, and cut it into small neat pieces convenient for serving. Mix a dessert-spoonful of curry powder, a dessert-spoonful of Captain "White's cirrry paste, and a tea-spoonful of ground rice, and rub the mixture to a smooth paste with a little cold stock. Stir in gradually one pint of boQing stock ; pour the sauce into a delicately clean stewpan, and stir it over the fire till it is smooth and thick. Put a quarter of a pound of butter into a frjdng-pan, and slice up six large onions, three or four tomatoes, three cloves of garlic; chop up also an ounce of raisins without stones; fry all, and brown the pieces of fowl a nice colour in the same butter. Pour the curry gravy over the fried fowl, move the stewpan to the side, simmer gently till done, then add tho juice of half a lemon and serve. Time, about two hours to simmer tbe fowl. Pro- bable cost, as. 6d. Sufficient for five persons. Fowl Cutlets.—Bone a fresh yoimg fo^yl; separate the wings, legs, and morrytliought: pick out all the meat from the inferior parts, mnice it, and season xs-ith ])opper, salt, and cho]iped lemon-peel. Put it in a mortnr, and smooth to a paste, with a small quantity of gravy, pro- cured by lioilins? the bones and trimminsrs. Jlako cutlets of the legs, wings, ica.; dip oich cutlet into egg, spread tho forcemeat over, and breadsPOW FOW ( 223 ) crumbs over all; then fry in butter a good brown. Serve with some of the gravy thickened in the dish. Time, one hour and a half to prepare. Sufficient for three or four persons. Fowl Fillets (au Supreme).—Cut as many neat tillets as you can from three fowls; lay them in paii-s, with forcemeat between, in a dish of clciritied butter, and then fiy them in some more butter, and dip them well in bread- crumbs. Fry also bread, cut as nearly the same size as possible. Heat the fillets in supreme sauce {see Supreme Sauce), but be especially careful not to allow them to boil in it. When serving, pour the sauce over the fiUets piled in the centre of the dish, but do not moisten the bread with it. Place the bread alternately with the fillets round the dish, and leave the sauce where it was poured in the centre. Time to lie in butter, half an hour; to fry, ten minutes. Sufficient for a dish. Fowl, Fricasseed. — Take cold boiled fowl; cut it up, and simmer in gravy, onion, mace, lemon-peel, white pepper, and a bunch of herbs; a bit of knuckle of veal added will be an improvement; stew for twenty minutes. Mix up a bit of butter and flour; put this into the gravy, with a little cream, a dash of nutmeg, and salt to taste. When thickened it is ready to serve. Fowl, Fried.—Divide the remains of a cold fowl into convenient-sized pieces; shred two or three shallots very fine, strew them, with salt and cayenne, over the meat in a dish, and pour vinegar enough to steep the meat. Take out the fowl in an hour, drain, and fry, dipping each piece into batter; use lard for frying, and let the pieces be nicely browned. Garnish with rolled bacon and fried parsley. For the batter, mix half a pound of flour with half a pint of hot water to a cream-like batter, stir in two ounces of butter, and the whites of a couple of eggs beaten to a froth. Time, ten minutes to fry. Probable cost, 9d., exclusive of fowl. Fowl, Fried (a la Malabar).—An Indian dish, highly recommended by an experienced cook. Fry in butter the several joints of a chicken, previously rubbed with curry-powder and a little salt. Make them of a nice light brown colour. Cut some onions into slices, separate them into rings, and again cut them into bits of half an inch. Fry them very slowly in a clean pan of clarified butter. If blackened, thej' wiU be spoiled. They should be of a delicate golden brown, and free, when done, from grease. When quite dry, sprinkle salt, and strew over the fried chicken. Serve hot and with a cut lemon on a plate. Time, twenty minutes to fry fowl. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. Sufficient for an entree. Fowl, Galantine of.—Open a fine fowl down the back, bone, and then cut out the flesh in long narrow strips, without injuring the skin ; leave enough meat as a lining to prevent the skin from bursting. Fill in the space (first spread- ing out the fowl with the breast downwards) with a good forcemeat, about half an inch thick; then place the strips of fowl and strips of boiled tongue in layers, with a few truffles between if they can be had. Pill up -with alternate forcemeat and the strips of fowl, &c. Shape the fowl nicely, and enclose it in a delicate white cloth. Have ready in a stewpan enough stock to cover the fowl. Put with it a knuckle of veal and a calf's foot, and stew gently for three-quarters of an hour; then add salt and pepper, a clove, and a bunch of sweet herbs, and stew for another hour, keeping the lid of the pan closed. When the fowl is taken up, continue | to boil the stock till it will jelly. Clarify, and ' when cold ornament the galantine with it; cut ! in any form liked. If the fowl be cold, remove \ it from the cloth, glaze and cover with a mix- ture of bread-crumbs and grated roasted chest- nuts, and garnish with the jelly, and hard-boiled eggs in halves, alternately. Fowl, Grillade of.-Score deeply the legs of a cold roast fowl or of any kind of game ; and cover them thickly with a sauce prepared by mixing two spoonfuls of salad-oil, a spoonful of chutnee, a spoonful of anchovy, a spoonful of mustard, and a little cayenne. Let them lie in this for aja hour or two; then grill them over a strong, clear fire to a bright brown colour, and serve them very hot. Send either dry toasts or rusks or piquante sauce to table with them. Fowl, Guinea, To Roast.—This bird improves in flavour by hanging. Prepare and roast like a turkey ; the head is sometimes left on, and the breast larded. Serve with gravy and bread-sauce in ,a tureen. Time, three- quarters to one hour, according to size. Suffi- cient for four persons. Fowl, Hashed.—Cut up a roast fowl, orany part of one. Put the bones and trimmings into a stevrpan, with water to cover them; add a carrot or two, some sliced onion, previously fried in butter, a blade of pounded mace, some savoury herbs, pepper, and salt. When the goodness is extracted, strain and thicken with a small quan- tity of flour and butter. Put the fowl into a clean stewpan, pour the gravy over, and sim- mer for twenty minutes. A few minutes before serving add the juice of half a lemon. Garnish with sippets of toasted bread. Time to stew bones, fee, for grayj, one hour and a half; to warm fowL twenty minutes. Probable cost, exclusive fowl, 6d. Fowl, Indian Dish of.—Put over the fire in a large stewpan two quarts of good veal broth, in which place a fowl, trussed as for boiling; add the following spices (pounded), tied in a muslin bag: of cloves, allspice, mace, and peppercorns, each a quarter of an ounce, and of coriander seed and ciimamon, half an ounce, -with forty cardamom seeds. Brown slightly in a frjang-pan with two ounces of butter, a pound of well-washed rice (Patna); and when the fowl is nearly done, add the rice, and stew until soft. Cut two or three middle- sized onions into slices, dredge with flour, and fry a nice brown colour, without breaking the rings. Have ready six slices of bacon curled and grilled, and a couple of eggs, boiled hard and quartered. Arrange the fowl in a ^yrn midal form upon a dish, smother with the rice, and garmsh with the sliced onion, bacon, andFOW ( 224 ) tggs. Time, half an hour to atow fowl; half an hour to stow fowl ami rice. Probable coat 5s. SiitHcient for four or live persons. ' Fowl Jelly (in cakes).—Take ten pounds of the leg of beof, two cow-heels, a knuckle of veal, a couple of old fowls, and the triniuiings of any thing at hand, with the bones, &c., broken in pieces; cover with water, ajid boil gently, adding a bunch of sweet herbs, a blade of mace, im onion, a bit of lemon-peel, and some whole peppers, and salt to taste. Boil six hours; cleai- olf the fat, strain, and let the mixture cool, ■when every piirticle of gx'easo must be removed. "When cold, put it over a quick fire, and boil till the jolly clings to the wooden spoon, when it may be poured out into a buttered tin. When quite cold, cut it into, strips, and store carefully in a tin box, to be dissolved for gravy or soups. Fowl Klosse.—Chop three or four ounces of suet, also the solid parts of an uncooked fowl; soak three large slices of light bread in milk, and press the moisture from it till quite dry. Put the whole into a mortar; season with salt, nutmeg, chopped parsley, and lemon-peel. Pound all together to a smooth paste, with two well-beaten eggs. "When shaped into Kliisse, boU. in clear soup. These Klosse may be made of veal, instead of fowl. Fowl Liver, Garnish.—Take the livers from four fowls; let them be quite sound, and of a good colour. Blanch them in boiling water, and then stew in gravy; add a bunch of thyme, parsley, pepper, and salt, half a tea-spoonful of each, with a small glass of white wine. When they have stewed a quarter of an hour, dry and use as a garnish. Time to blanch, ten minutes. Fowl, Marinaded.—Out a fine fowl into joints, and then into neat pieces. Ponr over them, on a dish, equal quantities of oil and lemon-jnice, a small wine-glassful of each. Shred a couple of shallots, and lay a bunch of herbs and some sprigs of parsley about them; season with a dessert-spoonful of pepper mixed. The fowl should be skinned before being put into the marinade, and well drained when removed from it. Fry in egg and bread-crumb?. Strain as much of the marinade as will be required for gravy. Make it hot, and add a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and the same of brown roux. Serve with the fowl in the centre, and the gravy poured round it. Time, six hours to lie in marinade ; to fry, twenty minutes. Fowl, Matelote of.— Brown two ounces of butter with a little flour in a stewpan. Stir in half a pint of brown sauce, and add a parsnip and the red part of two carrots, cut into lengths of half a finger, a dozen small onions, blanched and peeled, a bunch of herbs, parsley, a gill of claret, salt, and pepper. Cut up a couple of chickens or a large fowl into neat pieces; put them in a clean stevrpan with bouillon enough to cover them, and simmer for half an hour; then remove them to the other stewpan with the vegetables, adding a little bouillon if needed. Stew for ten minutes longer, then dish the fowl and reduce the sauce. Pour it hot over the fowl,' iand serve with pieces of fried eels or cray- fish. Sufficient for five or &ix persons. Fowl, Minced (a la B6chainel).—Put a small cupful of bechamel sauce, and the same of wliite stock, into a stewpan, with the 8<jlid white meat of a cold roast fowl, minced; stir well until it boils up, take ofl' immediately, and put it into a dish. The mixture may, if liked, be put in the centre of a dish, and have, the sauce poured upon it and potato croquettes arranged around it. Time to simmer in the sauce, two or three minutes. Sufficient for a difih. Fowl Pie, Mock Strasburg.—This dish is bettor wh(;n made with game, but when ex- pense is considered, rabbits and pigeons may be substituted. We, however, give the recipe for game. Bone a pheasant, fowl, and a brace of jjartridgos, and cut the meat into pieces about two inclies in length, and a quarter of an inch in thickness. Allow to every pound of meat half a tea-spoonful of salt, a good pinch of pepper, a piece of butter about the size of an egg, and four truffles. Put the meat, flavour- ing, and truffles in a covered baking-dish, arranging, in layers, first meat, then season- ing and butter, then truffles, and bake for one hour in a moderate oven. Next prepare the gravy, by stewing down the bones of the fowl, pheasant, &c., with a very small piece of garUc, two shallots, some nutmeg, a tea-spoon- ful of salt, one clove, a spoonful of sugar, a dessert-spoonful of brandy, a table-spoonful of shen-y, and a pint of water. Stew this unto, the gravy is reduced to half the quantity, when strain, and pour it on the meat. Cover carefully, and return it to the oven for two hours; if left uncovered until cold, the butter will rise to the surface. If a covered baking- dish is not at hand, a stone jar wiU answer the purpose, though, in the latter case, the meat would require to be turned out of the jar before sending to table. Probable cost, ISs. to 20s. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Fowl Pilau.—Stew a yoimg fowl in half a gallon of good veal broth, with the following spices fastened in a muslin bag:—Of cloves, all- spice, mace, and peppercorns, each a quarter of an ounce, coriander seed and cinnamon, half an ounce, and forty cardamom seeds, all pounded. Soak one pound of good rice in water for ten minutes, di-ain and fry it with two ounces of butter until slightly browned, then add it to the broth, and stew \mtil the fowl is tender, and nearly without moisture. Have ready six slices of bacon, curled and grilled, and a couple of onions, sliced and fried a nice brown. Pile the fowl in the middle of a dish with the rice over it, and garnish with the bacon, fried onions, and hard-boiled eggs. Cut into quarters. Time, half an hour to stew without rice ; half an hour with it. Probable cost, 4s. 3d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Fowl, Poele for.—This is a broth to boil fowls in, used by French cooks and made as follows :—Take two pounds of ham and two pounds of veal, cut into small pieces; add two caiTots and two onions, also cut, one pound of butter, the juice of four lemons, a pinch of salt and pepper, a couple of laurel-leaves, a sprig of fennel and thyme, and a spoonful of boiling stock to injiatiMi the whole with; stow until allC 225 ) FOW the gravy is extracted. Probable coat, 4s. 6d. Time to boil, four or five hours. Fowl, Potted. —Cut the meat off the bones of a cold roust fowl. Pound it in a mortar, with butter in the proportion of four ounces to every pound of meat. The skin and gristle should be carefully removed before the meat is weighed, and the butter should be of the best kind. Add, while pounding, six or seven grates of nutmeg, a small pinch of pounded mace, with salt and cayenne. A mixture of ham will be found very relishing ; it should be first grated, and then pounded with the fowl to a smooth paste. Fill small pots, and cover with clarified butter. Keep in a dry place, and tie down with bladder. Fowl (Poulet aux Cressons). — Place a layer of fresh watercresses on a dish; let them be quite free from moisture; arrange evenly, and sprinkle salt lightly over them. If vine- gar be approved, pour a small quantity over the cresses. A roast fowl may now be laid upon them. It should be of a good brown colour, with a frothed appearance. Serve with gravy, and in a tureen. Time, from half to one hour, according to size. Probable cost, 3s. Sufficient for three or four persons. Fowl, Pulled.—Divide a cold fowl into joints, strip off the skin, and pull the meat from the solid white parts in large pieces. Broil the legs and back of the fowl, seasoning them with salt and a good quantity of black pepper, dip- ping each piece into butter before putting it on the gridii'on. Warm the pulled white meat in some white sauce, let it be thick and well flavoured with pepper, salt, pounded mace, and a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice. When suffi- ciently heated, put the pulled meat on a dish, and the back and legs of the fowl upon it. Send to table with sliced lemon and sippets. Time, five minutes to broU; fifteen minutes to heat. Sufficient for a dish. Fowl, Ragout of.—Boil down the inferior parts, bones, &c., of a couple of roast fowls, and cut the joints into neat pieces.as for a fricassee. Stew with the trimmings an onion quartered, a couple of shallots, one blade of mace, some lean bits of ham, and a bunch of herbs. Cover with stock or water, and boil very gently till all the nourishment is extracted. The bones should be crushed before beginning to boil. Put a piece of butter into a stewpan and let it melt; add flour sufficient to absorb the butter, strain the liquor from the bones into it, and stir over the fire for a few minutes. Season with pepper and salt. Place the pieces of fowl nicely in the gravy, pour in a table-spoonful of lemon-juice, and about a tea-spoonful of pow- dered sugar. Let it get hot, but it should not boil. Serve with the gravy poured over, and a garnish of croutons. Time, one hour to stew trimmings, half an hour to stew fowl. Pro- bable cost, 9d., exclusive of fowl. Sufficient for seven or eight persons. Fowl, Rissoles of.—Take half a pound of the remains of a cold fowl, without skin or bone, and grate an ounce or two of tongue or ham, then chop all together until the meat ia I quite smooth. BoU down the bones and trim- mings with water to cover, a bit of lemon-peel, a piece of a laurel-loaf, and a bit of garlic the size of a peppercorn. Boil until the liquid is reduced to about a quarter of a pint, which should bo strained and used, at least as much as may be required of it, to moisten the meat. Mix with the chopped fowl a couple of tea- spoonfuls of browned flour, and season it with white pepper, salt, and nutmeg; add a tea- spoonful of chopped parsley, and some of the gravy. When wanted to make into balls (it should first be allowed to stand two or three hours to get firm), have ready beaten egg and finely- grated bread-crumbs; roll the balls a second time into the egg and crumbs that they may be thickly coated, and fry in plenty of boiling lard. Turn them about to get done on aU sides' alike of a light brown. Serve with a bouquet of fried parsley in the centre of the dish, and the rissoles roimd it. Time, eight minutes to fry. Sufficient for six balls. Fowl, Roast.—Truss the fowl with the giblets under the wings. Singe it. WhUe roasting, baste often with butter, and sprinkle with flour some minutes before serving to make it look frothy. If Uked stuffed, use a veal stuffing, or a ham forcemeat if the fowl be very large. Serve with plenty of rich light-brown gravy, and bread or oyster sauce. Time, three- quarters to one hour. Probable cost, 3s. to 48. Sufficient for four or five persons. Fowl, Roast, To Carve.—Insert the knife between the leg and the body, and cut to the bone; then turn the leg back with the fork, and, if the bird is not old, the joint will give IvOAST FOWL, TO CARVE. way. The wing is next to be broken off, and this is done in the direction of a to B, only dividing the joint with the knife. The four quarters having been remoA'ed in this way, take oft' the meiry-thought and the neckbones; these last are to be removed by putting the knife in at c and pressing it, when they will I break off from the part that sticks to the breast. Next separate the breast from the body of the fowl, by cutting through the tender ribs close to the breast, quite down to the tail. Turn the fowl now back upwards; put the knife into the bone midway between the neck and the rump, and on raising the lower end it will separate readily. Turn the rump from you, and take off very neatly the two sidesmen, which com- pletes the operation. The breast and wings are considered the best parts of a roast fowl, but in young birds the legs are the most juicy. In the case of a capon or large fowl, slices may be cut off the breast, just as is done when carving a pheasant {see Pheasant, To Carve). A boiled fowl is carved much in the same way as a roast fowl.FOW ( 226 ) POW Fowl, Salmi of.—Cut the birds (wild fowl or poultry) into neat pieces. Skin and re- move the fat from thom. Boil these with the trinmiinga and bones crushed for gravy. Slice a shallot, and add a little mace if likecl, but the salmi may bo simply seasoned with cayenne, a glass of port or claret, and some lemon-juice. Thicken with browned floui-. Lay the pieces of wild fowl into a clean stewimn, pour the gravy over, and heat all thoroughly, but it should not boil. The spongy, dark substance on the inside of wild fowl is exceedingly bitter, and should not be boiled for gravy. Fowl, Sauce for.—Boil two eggs for ten minutes and pound the yolks with a shallot, an anchovy, and a tea-spoonfiil of mustard; moisten with two dessert-spoonfuls of vinegar. Rub the mixture to a smooth paste, and add by degrees more oil and vinegar, about a table- spoonful of each. Strain, and send to table in a tureen. Probable cost, 4d. Fowl. Sausages of.—^As an accompani- ment to fricassees, or any made dish of fowl, make sausages of veal or poultry. Take equal quantities of the lean white part of the meat and fine bread-crumbs. Scrape half a pound of lean ham, and season with parsley, lemon-thyme, pounded mace, salt, and pepper. Mix all together with the yolk of an egg and a little milk, and roll into sausages. Fry in butter a -.ight brown. Or, chop the remains of a turkey or fowl, and mix with fat bacon in equal quan- tities. Pound the mixture in a mortar with an anchovy, a little sage, salt, and pepper. Fry these sausages as a nice supper dish, and gar- nish with fried sippets. A sweetbread with sausages piled round it is excellent. Fowl Scallops.—Mince the meat of a cold fowl very fine, season with salt and pepper, a dash of nutmeg and cayenne, and a shred of lemon-peel. Put this over the fire in a little thin cream or white broth. When thoroughly warmed through (not boiled), pour into clean buttered scallop-shells. Strew with bread- crumbs until covered, and on the top put bits of butter. Brown the bread-crumbs twenty minutes in the oven. Fowi, Scallops, (a la Bechamel).—Roast a couple of tine fowls, and when done, re- move them from the spit. Cut with a sharp knife all the flesh in one piece from the breasts and wings. Pull off the skin, and slice the meat thinly into small scallops, which arrange on a liot dish. Sprinkle lightly with salt, and pour boiling sauce (bechamel) over. If cold fowls be used, dip the scallops one by one into clarified butter and fry, but do not brown. Drain off the butter, and pile in the middle of a hot dish. Sauce as above. Time, four minutes to fry. Probable cost, exclusive of fowls, 8d. Sufficient for an entree. Fowl, To Boil.—Pick, singe, and truss the fowl; press the legs into the sides, and make the breast a good shape. Cover with buttered paper, plunge into hot water lightly siilted, and hoil gently for about three-quarters of an hour. Serve with ham, tongue, or bacon. For sauce, either pai-sley, lemon, or oyster sauce is suitable. A little should be poured over the fowl, and the remainder should bo served in a tureen. Fowl, To Bone, without opening it. —I After the fowl has been drawn and singed wipe it inaido and out with a clean cloth] but do not wash it. Take off the head, cut through the skin all round the first joint of the legs, and pull them from the fowl, to draw out the large tendons. Raifie the flesh first from the lower part of the backbone, and a little also from the end of the breastbone, if necessary; work the knife gradually to the socket of the thigh; with the point of the knife detach the joint from it. Take the end of the bone firmly in the fingers, and cut the flesh clean from it down to the next joint, round which pass the point of the knife carefully, and when the skin is loosened from it in every part, cut round the next bone, keeping the edge of the knife close to it, imtil the whole of the leg is done. Remove the bones of the other leg in the same manner ; then detach the flesh from the back and breastbone sufficiently to enable you to reach the upper joints of the ^vings; proceed with these as with the legs, but be especially careful not to pierce the skin of the second joint. It is usual to leave the piniorm unbound, in order to give more easily its natural form to the fowl when it is dressed. The merry-thought and neckbones may now easily be cut away, the back and sidebones taken out without being divided, and the breast- bone separated easily from the flesh, which, as the work progresses, must be turned back from the bones upon the fowl, until it is completely inside out. After the one remaining bone is removed, draw the wings and legs back to their proper form, and turn the fowl right side out- wards. Bone a turkey in the same manner, but as it requires a large amount of forcemeat to fill it entirely, the legs and wings are some- times drawn into the body, to diminish the expense of this. If very securely trussed and sewn, the bird may be either boiled or stewed in rich gra\'y, as well as roasted, after being boned and forced; but it must be gently cooled, or it may burst. Or : Cut through the skin down the centre of the back, and raise the fiesh carefuUy on either side with the point of a sharp knife, until the sockets of the wings and thighs are reached. Till a little practice has been gained, it will perhaps be better to bone these joints before proceeding further; but after they are once detached from it, the whole of the body may easily be taken out entire ; only the neckbones and merry-thought will then remain to be removed. The bird thus prepared may either be restored to its original form, by filling the legs and A\'ings with forcemeat, and the body, with the legs of two or three fowl.s, mixed with alternate layers of parboiled tongue freed from the rind, fine sausage-meat, or veal forcemeat, or thin slices of the nicest bacon, or anything else of good flavour, which will give a marbled appearance* to the fowl when it is ran-ed, and then be sewn up and trussed as usual; or the legs and Vinngs mnv bo drawni inside the body, and the bird being first flattened on a table may bo cwvered with sausage-moat and the various other ingre-( 227 ) row dients named, so placed that it shall be of equal thickness in eveiy part; then tightly rolled bound firmly together with a hUft of broad tape, wrapped in a thin pudding-cloth, closely tied at both ends, and di-essed as loUows :-Put it into a braising-pan, stewpan, or thick iron saucepan, bright on the inside, and htted as nearly as may be to its size; add all the chicken bones, a bunch of sweet herbs, two carrots, two bay leaves, a largo blade of mace, twenty-four white peppercorns, and any trunmings or bones of uudi-essed veal which may be at hand. Cover the whole with good veal broth, add salt if needed, and stew very softly from an hour and a quarter to an hour and a half. Let the bird cool in the liquor in which it was stewed, and after it is lifted out, boil down the gravy to a jelly and strain it. Let it become cold, clear off the fat, and serve it cut into large dice or roughed, and laid round the fowl, which is to be served cold. If restored to its form, instead of being rolled, the bird must be stewed gently for an hour, and may then be sent to table hot, covered with mushi-oom, or any other good sauce that may be preferred ; or it may be left until the following day, and served garnished with the jelly, which should be firm and very clear and well flavoured. The liquor in which a calf's foot has been boiled down, added to the broth, will give it the necessary degree of consistence. French cooks add three or four onions to these preparations of poultry (the last of which is called a " galantine"). Suflicient for a pie, two fowls bound and rolled. Fowl, To Dress.—Pound together in a mortar two ounces of fat bacon and the same of suet. Mince two ounces of veal and grate the same weight of lean ham. Blend all in a mortar, and beat in the yolks of two hard- boiled eggs and a tea-cupful of bread-crumbs. Flavour with an anchovy, salt, and pepper to taste, and mix to a smooth paste with three well-beaten eggs. Stuff a young, boned fowl with this forcemeat, truss it with the legs and wings drawn inward, and put it into a stewpan with a little white chicken or veal broth.. When it has stewed one hour, take it out on a hot dish; boil up the gravy, and stir in a piece of butter rolled in flour and a cupful of cream. Squeeze in the juice of haK a lemon, and serve. Sufficient for three persons. Fowl, To Hash.—Boil down the bones and trimmings of a roast or boiled fowl with a pint of stock; put in an onion or shallot, the rind of half a lemon, one blade of mace, pepper, and salt. Have ready in a clean stewpan the fowl, neatly arranged, and when the gravy has sim- mered half an hour strain it over, and add two ounces of butter rolled in flour, and two dessert- spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup. Serve with sippets of toasted bread. Time altogether, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, ex- clusive of fowl, 5d. Suflicient for three or four persons. {See aiso Fowl, Hashed). Fowl, To Boast (German method).—Roast for half an hour before the fire a fine fowl that has been well larded and stuffed with force- meat. Take it from the spit and remove to a ttewpan. Put butter over the breast, sprinkle it with salt, and pour in a cup of mJt or mc6 veal broth. Cover it closely, but baste and steam slowly. When tender, which will be in about three-quarters of an hour, ser^^e the fowl with the sauce thickened in the dish, and a garnish of sliced lemon. Use about a tea- spoonful of arrowroot or corn-flour for the thickening. Fowl, To Souse.—Take a fowl hot from the spit, one that has been well basted w^th butter. Cut it into joints, and lay them in a hot deep dish. Have ready two or three onions, shred very fine, sprinkle them over the fowl with a small table-spoonful of pepper and salt mixed. Pour over aU a pint of boiling water, and cover so that no steam shall escape. Do not uncover until quite cold. The joints of a cold fowl may be prepared as above, and then heated in a saucepan. Remove the meat as soon as the liquid boils, and cover closely. Sufficient for three or four persons. Probable cost of fowl, 3s. to 3s. 6d. Fowl, To Stew.—Truss a fowl as for boiling, and put it into a stewpan containing a quart of good gravy ; add a head of celery, cut into pieces of an inch in length, pepper, salt, and one small blade of mace. The fowl should bo protected from the bottom of the stewpan ; use four bright skewers for this purpose; rest the fowl upon them, and stew till the gravy is reduced to less than half its original quantity. Put the fowl on a hot dish, thicken the sauce with two ounces of butter roUed in floui-; season to taste, and add a glass of ketchup. Serve hot with the sauce poured over. Time, one hour and a half to stew. Sufficient for a diish. Fowl, To Truss (Boiled).—Pluck, draw, singe, and wash the fowl inside and out- side, then -wipe it. Cut off the neck even with the back, but leave enough skiii to roU back neatly. Take off the feet, and insert the legs in a slit oi the skin made in the sides. Pass a skewey through the leg and the bottom of the wing (the other part of the wing should be twisted over the back) through the body; do the same on both sides. Roll and skewer the sldn of the neck, and put the rump through a slit made in the apron. Secure with string across the tops of the legs, and make aU firm before boUing. White-legged fowls are best in point of colour for boiling. Fowl, To Truss (Boast).—Pluck, dra,w, singe, but do not wash the fowl. Wipe it with a couple of clean cloths, and use white paper when singeing it. Cut off the head and neck, and fold the skin over the back. Scald and scrape the legs, cutting off the claws, and fasten the pinions and legs -with a skewer long enough tc secure the other pinion and leg. Put the fiver in one wing and the gizzard in the other, and skewer the fowl firmly before it is put to the spit. A trussing-needle threaded with twine shoilld be used for this purpose; bring it through the backbone, and secure the string on the other side. Fowl, Veal, or Babbit Curry.—Cut a fowl or rabbit into neat pieces, and some veal into slices, dredge them with flour, and cove!POW ( 228 ) PRA with cuiTy.powdor; fry till brown in butter. Spnnklo linoly-slirod ouiou dui-ing the fryinL' iiud when the moat is liiilf doue, mid of a piilo brown, pour in some white stock, aud finish tho cooking-; add a little lomon-juico, audsorvohot. Fowl, White Oyster Sauce for.— Strain tliti liiinor from a dozen oysters, and bo cMireful to pr(3sorve every drop of it. Put into a stowpan the strained liquor, half a pint of milk, a thickening of butter and Hour, a little lomon-rind, a blade of mace pounded, and I very little cayenne. Stir in thi-eo or four ' ttible-spoonfuls of cream, and continue to stir till tho sauce is thick; then pour it over tho scalded oysters, which should previously have / been washed and bearded, and put into a clean saucepan. Squeeze in the juice of a lemon, move the sauce round for a minute or two, then serve in a tui-een. Time, a quarter of an hour to prepare. Probable cost. Is. 9d. to 23. per dozen. Sufficient for a large tureen. Fowl with Ham, Potted—Chop to- gether six ounces of cooked ham and the meat of a hot roast chicken; pound these in a mortar, with four ounces of butter. Boil down the bones of the chicken with the skin and the gravy from the roasting, season with salt, pep- per, mace, and cayenne; reduce the mixture to a glaze, and add it to the pounded meat. Press the fowl and ham into shallow earthen pots, cover with clarified butter, and store in a cool place. Fowl, with Macaroni.—Cut up a fowl into neat pieces, and make a seasoning of pepper and salt—a salt-spoonful of each—and a little grated nutmeg; roU the pieces in the seasoning, dredge them with browned flour, and fry lightly, using oil or butter. Stew the bones and trim- mings ; put them into a stewpan with a quart of water, or broth from the boiling of veal, if at hand, a carrot, a sliced onion, a piece of garlic about the si^e of a pea, a small bunch of parsley, a clove or two, a tea-spoonful of mustard, and two of grated cheese, with salt to taste. YVlien the bones, &c., have stewed an hour, or more, strain. Have ready a stew- pan, containing three ounces of dissolved butter, place five or six ounces of good maca- roni, previously soaked an hour in water, into it, pour the strained gravy over, and simmer until soft; then arrange the fowl in the centre of a dish, with the macaroni as a wall round it. Pour half a wine-glass of Marsala into the gravy, make it hot, and serve thrown over the fowl. Time to fry fowl, ten minutes ; to simmer macaroni, one hour and a half. Sufiicient for four or five persons. Fowl, with Onions. — Pluck, draw, singe, and wash a fowl, and truss as if for boil- ing ; lay it, with a pint of white broth, in a sauce- pan. The pan should be previously rubbed with butter, and the fowl should also be smeared with it. Season to taste with pepper and salt, and stew gently for half an hour; then add a dozen and a lialf of small onions, and stew another half hour. The fowl should be turned three or four times during tho cooking. Pro- bable cost, 3s. to 3a. fid. Sufficient for threp or four poraoai. Fowl, with Oysters.—A fowl, cooked according to the folLjwing recipe, will have a decided Bupeiioiity of flavoui- over one boiled in the usual way. Put a young fowl, well lillod with oystorH, from which the beards liave boon removed, mto a stone jar, and tho jar again into a wiucoi)an of water. Cover the jar to prevent tho stftam escajnug, and stow gently. Tho gravy in the jar, of which there will be a sufficient quantity to sei've with the fowl, may be made, with tlie addition of an egg and a little cream, into a white sauce; or it may be simply thickened with butter and flour. Time, one hour and a half to stew. Oysters, Is. &d. to 2s. per dozen. Fowl, with Peas.—Fry the remains of a cold roust fowl in two ounces of butter until they are oi a good brown colour. Have ready on a pLate a little flour, chopped parsley, pepper, salt, and pounded mace. Mix these ingredients weU, and turn each piece of fowl as it comes from the frying-pan, in the mixture. Place a stewpan over the fire, with half a pint of broth or gi-avy, a pint of peas, and a tea-spoonful of sugar; into this put the fowl, and stew untd the peas are tender. Serve the peas in the centre of the dish, and arrange the pieces of fowl in a circle round them. Probable cost, exclusive of fowl, 8d. Fowl, with Rice,—Prepare the fowl as if for boiling; cover with water, or good veal broth, if at hand. Skim well while boOing, and put into the saucepan, half an hour before the fowl is cooked, a quarter of a poimd of rice, salt, pepper, and an onion. Stew very gently till tender. Take out the fowl, strain the rice, and put the latter before the fire to swell; thicken the broth with flour and butter; ser^'e the fov\l on the centre of a dish, wdth the rice round, and the sauce over all. The delicate appearance of the fowl will be spoiled if the rice be not well- washed, and the scum carefully removed. Time, one ho ir to boil fowl; half an hour to stew rice. Probable cost, 4s. Sufficient for four or five persons. Fowl, with Rice Croquettes.—Boil half a pound of rice in a quart of good broth, and let it simmer, afterwards adding two or three ounces of butter, until the liquid has evaporated, and the rice is left quite dry. WTien cold, mould into balls; insert a spoon, and press the rice in the middle, so as to form a hoUow, which fill with minced fowl, moistened slightly with be(,'hamel sauce. . Close the opening with some more rice, and fry, dipping each ball into egg, and rolling it in bread-crumbs. When of a nice brown, serve with a garnish of fried parsley. Time, half an hour to boil rice; ten minutes to fry croquettes. Probable cost, 8d., exclusive of fowl. Prangipane.—Beat six eggs until light, add to them gradually a pint of new milk and two small spoonfuls of flour. Put the mixture over the fire in a clean saucepan, \^T.th a quarter of a pound of fine sugar, and when close at the boiling point andthickish, stir in two ounces of crushed ratafias, a glass of rum or brandy, some grated lomon-rind, and two ounces of butter, browned filiorhtly in a clean pan. This delicious creamy pi oparation is an excellent a-.ibhlitute for cuetai-J.FBE PEA ( 229 ) It can be flavoured with vanilla, orange-flower, or cofliee, to suit the dish it ia wanted for. The iYoneh use it to fill tai-tlets or cover fi-uit tiirts. Probable cost, Is. 3d. for tliis quantity, exclusive of spu-its. Frankfort Sausages.—Mince very finely one poiuid of leau pork, from the shouldoj-, with three ounces of fat bacon; add a little red wine during the mincing process, just enough to keep the meat moist. JSeason with equal quantities of black pepper and ground coriander seed, a little nutmeg grated, and salt to taste. Fill akins—these should be scrupulously clean, well- soaked in siilt and water, and wiped dry before being used. Bread soaked in milk or water, and squeezed dry, is sometimes used, either to increase the quantity, or to make the sausages less rich. Allow the same quantity of bread as of fat. Time to boil, hiilf an houi-. Probable cost for this quantity. Is. 3d. French Cake.—Mix equal quantities of fine flour and ground rice together, half a poimd of each. Put these into a bowl, with a pound of finely-sifted sugar, the grated riad of a lemon, and four ounces of sweet, and one of bitter, almonds, pounded together with a table- spoonful of orange-flower water. Beat twelve eggs separately, yolks from whites, and then mix with the above ingre'dients, until the whole are thoroughly blended. Time, one hour to bake. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. French. Fritters.—Dissolve two ounces of butter in half a pint of warm milk; blend with it ten ounces of flour, and work it till it is quite smooth. Whisk the whites of two eggs; add them to the batter just before use, as the lightness will depend on this mainly. Season with salt, &c., if for vegetables; or sweeten with sugar if for frying fi'uit. Time, ten minutes to fry. Probable cost, 7d. for this quantity. French Fritters (another way).—Mix two large table-spoonfuls of flour with as much warm water as wiU make it into a stiff paste ; beat up the whites and yolks separately of two eggs; add the yolks to the paste, a table- spoonful of salad-oil, enough sugar to sweeten, and, lastly, the whites of the eggs, which should be a stiff froth before being added. Drop the batter from a spoon, and fry in plenty of boiling lard. This preparation is excellent for fruit fritters, such as apples, peaches, oranges, &c. Time, about ten minutes to fry with fruit. Probable cost, 6d. French GauflEVes.—Separate eight eggs, yolks from whites; beat the yolks till light, and froth the whites. Put eight ounces of flour and a quarter of a pound of pounded sugar, with a little salt, into a basin, and mix the beaten yolks of eggs, a glass of noyeau or any Uquor preferred, and some pounded vanilla, with the flour; add a pint of whipped cream by slow degrees, and the whites of eggs lastly and lightly, that they may be well blended with the whole batter. Heat the gauffre-irons, and smear them with clarified butter, fill with the batter, and bake over a light charcoal fire; turn the irons that the gauffres may be evenly coloured; and when turned out, make them neat with a pair of scissors, and dry before the tire on paper. When dry, shake vanilla, orange, or lemon sugar over them, and serve piled high on a napkin. Probable cost, 28. for this quantity. French Jelly.—Gather fresh sound fruit for this i)ui-pose ; strawberries, cherries, grapes, and currants do well for it. Prepare a quart of clear jelly, and cover the bottom of a mould with it. When it has had time to harden, make a border of fruit, and place it tastefully round the edge; cover with jelly, which must harden as before, and continue to fill the mould in the same manner. Preserved fruits may be arranged with good effect between the jeUy in the mould and as a garnish around it. French Melted Butter.—Melt over the fire, in a clean saucepan, four ounces of good fresh butter, and keep moving the saucepan round in one direction until the butter is quite hot. Or, blend together four ounces of good fresh butter and a table-spoonful of flour. Put these ingredients into a saucepan, with two table-spoonfuls of water, half a spoonful of white vinegar, and a flavouring of nutmeg and salt. Stir over the fire to thicken, but do not let the mixture boil. Time, about five minutes. Butter, Is. 6d. per pound. French Pancakes.—Beat two ounces of butter to a cream, and beat two eggs tUl they are light; blend with these two ounces of fine flour, and the same weight of powdered sugar. AHd milk very gradually till the mixture is as thick as cream. Bake on buttered tin plates, and beat the mixture until it is poured upon them to be put into the oven. Bake a few minutes in a quick oven. Serve piled high on a dish; a cut lemon and sifted sugar should accompany, or the pancakes may have a layer of preserve be- tween each. Probable cost, 7d. Sufficient for three or four persons. French Pie.—Line a dish with puff paste, and fill it with a mince of cold roast veal and gi-ated ham; add two dozen oysters, bearded, which place, with a good seasoning of salt, mace, and lemon-peel, in alternate layers with the meat. Pour in a small cup of gravy, the liquor from the oysters, and a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, mixed together. Cover with paste, and remove from the oven when the paste is done. Time, about half an hour. Probable cost of oysters, Is. 9d. to 2s. per dozen. Two pounds of mince is sufficient for five or six persons. French Plum Pudding.—Put half a pound of flour into a basin with about a salt- spoonful of salt; beat up separately four yolks and two whites of eggs; stir the yolks, with half a pint of cream, into the flour. Boil one pound of good French plums; put boiling water on them, and continue to simmer till the stones will come out easily. Remove the stones; drain off the moisture from the fruit, and stir it and also the frothed whites of eggs, into the batter. Do not boil in a basin; the pudding is best in a floured cloth, which should not be tied too closely, as the contents will swell in boiling. Time, two hoiu-s to boU. Probable cost, 2s. 2d Sufficient for four or five persons.( 230 ) PRE FBE French Plums, Stewed.—Put enough wntLT in II ult'uu stowpuu to cover u pound ami a half of French phims, stow thoni fur an hour, then strain and Itoil tho wator, tliroo- iiuartors of a pint, with half a jiound of Hiiyar. When it has builod, and Loon woU skimmed, and is tiuite clear, add tlie rind and juice of a lemon with tiio plums, and simmer very gently. A glass of poi-t wine will improve tho flavour and appeaianco of tlie fruit, and may bo added at the same time with the plums. Serve in a glass dish. Time to stow, one hour or more, according to tho quality ; to simmer, one hour and a half. Probable cost of ])lum8, Is. per pound. Sufficient for a large dish. Fl'enoh Plum Tart.—Stew French plums witli sugar, in the proportion of half to tho weight of fruit. Put half a pound of plums and a quarter of a pound of sugar, with half a glass of water or red wine into a stewpan; cover, and stew very gently until the stones can be taken away easily. Crush a part of them, and put the kernels with the plums in the stewpan. Edge a dish with puii paste, put in the plums, &c., cover with a paste, bake, and serve hot. Time, thi'ee-quartors of an hour to bake. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for a small tart. French. Pudding.—Mix six ounces of : marrow, two ounces each of flour, bread-crumbs, ] chopped apples, dried cherries, and candied peel, three ounces of sugar, half an ounce of ginger, and the grated rind of a lemon. Moisten with four eggs and a giU of cream, and boil three hours. French Raised Pie.—It will require some practice to mould the paste for this pie to the desired shape, but having succeeded in making the paste, which is sometimes simply made of flour, mixed with boiling water, in which a little lard is dissolved, and is not intended to be eaten, the rest of the work is easy enough. Mould according to the hints given by the celebrated Monsieur Ude, of which the fol- lowing is a copy :—" Take a lump of paste, according to the size of the pie you are to make, mould it in the shape of a sugar-loaf, put it up- right on the table, and with the palms of your hands flatten the sides of it; when you have equalised it all round, and it is quite smooth, squeeze the point of the cone down to half the height of the paste; then hollow the inside by pressing it vnth the fingers, and in doing this be careful to keep it in every part of equal thickness. Fill it, roll out the cover, egg the edges, press them securely together, make a hole in the centre, lay a roll of paste roimd it, and encircle this with a wreath of leaves, or ornament the pie in any other way, according to taste; glaze it with the beaten yolk of egg, and bake it from two to three hours in a well-heated oven, if it be small, and from four to five hours if it be large; the time must be regulated by the nature of tho contents and size of the dish. "When baked, fill with game, poultry, or a fricassee of chicken, rabbit, &c. Ser^-e on a napkin. French Rolls.—Rub together a pound of flour and an ounce of butter; when well blended mix with the flour and butter a small quantity of yeast with enough milk to form a stiff dough, an egg, and a little salt. Do not knead the dough, but use a wooden spoon, let it rise, and bake on tins. When brown and ready to be taken out of the oven, brush over with beaten egg, and keep the rolls a minute or tw,, longer to dry. Time, from fifteen to twenty minutes to bake. Probable cost, Id. Sufficient for six rolls. French Salad.-it would be difficult t.^ particularize a French salad, it is composed ol everything or anything. Alany improvised disht.-, of salad, such as beans, potatoes, cauliflowei, and celery (cooked), are served at a French table, seasoned with salt, pepper, oil, vinegar, chopped tarragon, oi' a little tarragon vinegar. Fish salads, too, are highly relished, namelj-, the remains of any solid fish, such as cod, sole, or turbot, for which the following sauce will bu found excellent, as it will be also for a lettuce or other vegetable salad :—Bruise the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs with a wooden spoon, and moisten with a raw egg; put this egg-mixturc- into a bowl, with two salt-spoonfuls of salt, a little pepper, and a pinch of cayenne; add bv degrees oil and vinegar, alternately, until thi^ required quantity, three table-spoonfuls of oil and one of vinegar, which may be tarragon, has been mixed. Keep the sauce stiired and well smoothed with the spoon. Add half a tea- ■ spoonful of shi-ed onion, and the same of chervil and tarragon, if plain vinegar has been used with the oil. Two table-spoonfuls of thick cream or melted butter will make the sauce richer and better, and the whites of eggs may be chopped and added to the salad. French Sausages.—Take equal portions of fat bacon and lean pork, one pound of each; mince them. Blanch and parboil a sweetbread for half an hour, also three or four fowls" livers. Put all into a mortar, with salt, pepper, half a tea-spoonful of sugar, the same of saltpetre, and a little mace. Wash, brush, and peel two truffles, and add them, with a clove of garUc. When rubbed together, and reduced to a smooth mass, sprinkle a dozen peppercorns over the meat; and as the skins are being filled, some very thin long strips of bacon may be added, if the meat is not considered sufficiently rich; these can be put in easily when the skins are large. Hang to dry. The sausages may be eaten cooked or otherwise, but they are best cold. Time, five minutes to boil livers. French Soufl9.e.—Put a piece of butter, the size of a small egg, and stir it over the fire, in a clean saucepan, with tw^o table-spoonfuls of flour. When thick (it must not brown), have ready half a pint of boihng milk and two table- spoonfuls of cream, and stir the whole together. Pour it up into a bowl when smooth and thick, and flavour with maraschino, noyeau, or to taste. Beat up the yolks of five eggs, with two ounces of pounded sugar; add them, with the whites of eight eggs whisked to a stiff froth, and bake carefully in a souffle dish. Time, about one hour. Probable cost, Is. 3d. for this quantity. French Supper Dish.—Cut neat pieces of bread of uniform size, about three inches square, fry them delicately in butter, and set thom before the fire on a hot disli. Stew a few muscatel raisins in a little sweet wine and someFRO ( 281 ) FBE sugar. Cover the pieces of bread with them, or waiin some preserve, by placing it over boiling water, and sei-ve with the preserve on the top of each piece. Time, half an hour to prepare. French Timbale.—Line a round weU- huttered mould with short paste, and put a thin layer of forcemeat to correspond, com- posed of calf's Uver and bacon pounded, and highly seasoned with mace, nutmeg, lemon- peel, mai-joram, thyme, and a couple of cloves of giu-hc (the bacon and liver should be semi- fried separately before being pounded), cayenne pepper, and salt. Lard a piece of the lillet of veal, about three poimds, and cut it in thick slices across the grain of the meat. Fill up the mould with alternate layers of the veal, small thin slices of boiled ham, and the forcemeat, not forgetting to season with herbs and spices as above Koll out paste for a cover; see that it is even round the edge, and securely closed ; pinch it round with pastry pincers. Make an ornament of leaves with some of the paste, brush with egg, and bake in a moderate oven. When done, and the heat has passed from it, pour in a thin glaze through the top, made from the bones and trimmings of veal, and some jelly of calf's foot. Time, two hours and a half to bake. Probable cost of veal, Is. 4d. per pound. Sufficient for seven or eight persons. Friar's Chicken Soup.—Cut up three nice plump chickens, or a couple of young fowls. Put them into a saucepan, with some clear stock, if it can be obtained, or two quarts of water. Shred some parsley, and when the chickens are sufficiently cooked, take them up, and keep them hot. Thi'ow in the parsley, simmer a few minutes longer, when stir in the whole of four weU-beaten eggs, and remove at once from the fire. Flavour to taste with salt and pepper. Serve with the chicken in the tureen. Friar's Omelet.—Make a light batter of three eggs, two table-spoonfuls of butter (melted), two of sugar, and half a dozen stewed apples, reduced to a pulp. When well beaten ' together, fry as an omelet in butter. Time, ten minutes. Probable cost, 8d. Fricandellans.—Take two pounds of beef, tender, and free from bone, gristle, or fat; mince, and then pound it with twelve ounces of shred suet; flavour with salt, black pepper, and a small pinch of cayenne. When pounded to a smooth paste, add half a pint of thick cream, four eggs, well beaten, and as much bread- crumbs as may be found necessarj-. Make the paste up into the usual oblong form, and boil in boiling stock ten minutes. Probable cost, 3s. 9d. for this quantity. Fricandelle, Boiled.—Use any meat for this dish. If veal, chop the fat and lean together; but if mutton, remove the fat, and take butter instead. Chop one pound of cold roast veal, season with pepper, salt, and a little nutmeg. Mix bread-crumbs, and break an ounce of butter into bits with them; add a little good veal gravy, and a couple of eggs. Mix well, and press into a buttered mould. When boiled the fricandelle should be turned out, and served with a brown gravy over it. Time to boil, one hour. Probable cost, 4d., exclusive of the cold meat. Sufficient, one pound of meat for two or thi-ee persons. Fricandelles, Fried.—Mince first, and then pound together, beef and suet, in the propor- tion of a quaorter of a pound of suet to one pound of meat. Roast, or any cold beef may be used, but uncooked meat is best. Smooth to a paste with an egg or two, and a little water. Add three ounces of fine bread-crumbs, a little shred onion, salt, and pepper. Make into egg-shapeci balls, and fry in butter to a deUcate brown; or, they may be baked with a mixture of mashed potatoes as a substitute for bread, and fat bacon instead of suet. Time, ten minutes to fry. Beef, Is. per pound. Fricassee Chaudfroid.—Put a, nice plump chicken, trussed as for boiling, into a saucepan, with a quart of veal stock, and boil and skim in the usual way. When done, put the chicken on a dish, and boil a pint of the stock with a few mushrooms, until reduced; then, with the stewpan removed from the fire, stir in the beaten yolks of four eggs, and half a pint of cream. Season well with nutmeg, pepper, and salt, and stir in the juice of half a lemon, and a tea-spoonful of pounded sugar. Stir over the fire for a little time, but do not boil. Cover the chicken with the sauce, which should be cut up and pUed high in the centre of a dish. Let it become cold and firm, then garnish with aspic jelly. Fromage Cuit.—Moisten eight or tem ounces of good cheese, broken into small bits, with half a pint of thick cream. Rub it smooth in a mortar, and add two eggs, with the white of one, both beaten together, and a pinch of cayenne. Bake in a moderate oven for fifteen minutes. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Frontignac.—Put the whites of two well- beaten eggs, with eighteen pounds of good loaf sugar, in a vessel containing six gallons of Avater. Take off the scum when it boils, and throw in half a gallon of elder-flowers; now let ! the liquor cool, and. stir in a glass and a half of lemon-juice and four or five spoonfuls of yeast, which should be well mixed up with it. Put in half a dozen pounds of the best raisins, weighed after being stoned, stir it every- day, pour it into a cask, and stop it close. It improves by- keeping. Time, bottle in six months. Frost, or Icing, for Cakes.—Put two- pounds of what is called icing sugar into a bowl, and mix with it the whites only of two, or,, if necessary, of three eggs, or even four, and a few drops of lemon-juice. The fewer eggs the better. The egg-whites must not be beaten. Stir the sugar vigorously till there is a smooth thick paste that will not run; this will call for both strength and patience. Lay the icing on the cake with hands dipped frequently into cold water, and smooth it with an ivory knife dipped in cold water. Let it harden in a cooj oven. Froth, to set on Creams, Custard, &C.—Beat the whites of four or five eggs to a froth; stew damsons, or any other fruit, until they can be pulped through a sieve, then beat the pulp with the frothed eggs until the fork will stand upright in it. Put it with a spoon on the top of tnfle, cream, or custard; it should.( 282 ) PBU VRJJ look rocky, bo put it ou as roughly as pos- sible. Time, boat until the whole is a stiit' froth. Fruit Biscuits.—Make a paste as follows: mix thoroughly the yolks of two »!ggs, and four ounces of sugar. When smooth add four ounces of flour, ono egg, and a littlo wilt, and last of all, the two whites of eggs, wluHkod till firm. Spread the paste on a lined baking tin ; it should bo rather loss than an inch thiclc. Bako in a moderate oven, and when cool cut into fingers. Rub a cupful of strawberries or rasp- berries through a fine sieve, and mix witli the pulp castor sugar to make a stiff paste. Spread this upon the biscuits, and dry in a cool oven. Fruitj Compote of. Mixed.—Boil ten ounces ot sugar and halt a pint of water ten minutes; take the stallcs from a quart of red cui-rants and lot them simmer with the same quantity of raspberries from eight to ten minutes in the syrup. Get ripe, but sound raspberries, and see that they ai-e free from moisture before they are put into the syrup. Fruit Cream for Tarts.—A very nice cream for fruit tarts is made by boiling peach or laurel-leaves (to extract their flavour) in milk. Two or three leaves in a quart of milk will be sufficient. Boil until flavoured; add, when strained and sweetened, f om- well-whisked eggs; heat it, stirring steadily until thick, but it must not boil. This cream is eaten also with stewed fruit of any kind. Fruit, Dish of Mixed.—In the months of September and October the most fastidious fancy may be gratified through the facility DISH OF MIXED FRUIT. afforded of collecting a variety of mixed fruits for a centre dish. The beauty even of fine fruit is enhanced when it is tastefuUy dished, and its form and colour are shown to advantage. One ornament for the centre of a dinner-table is a large gilt basket of some graceful shape, filled with every kind of fruit, interspersed with moss and fern-leaves. Apples, pears, peaches, pine-apples, and grapes would form a lovely combination for autumn fruits, the crevices filled up with scarlet geraniums and maiden- hair foni; this for a centre-piece, surrounded by specimen glasses, with a rose or camelia in each, would form a most attractive coup d'asil. There are so many ways, however, of dis])laying taste in dressing the centre of a table and of aiTanging fruit dossoils, that it is best left to (;ach individual fancy. Suffiwi it to say, that the dish should never be too full, and always garnished in some way, either with leaves or tiny sprays of flowers, or even em- broidered paper, which can bo bought for the purpose, and that all fruit intended for table should be carefully wiped with a cloth before arranging on the dish. Fruit Fritters.—Fruit fritters are made by frying fruit which has been dipped in batter, in hot fat, and draining well before serving. The following recipe will serve for many kindji of fruits, and also for vegetables :—Warm half a pint of milk, in which stir two ounces of but- ter ; make it into a batter, with about ten ounces of flour. Sweeten to taste, and .flavour with nutmeg, ciniiamon,&c., and a glass of any liquor or brandy. Stir in the whites of two eggs well whisked, and fry at once, in hot dripping or lard. Fruits such''as]pine-apple, apple, orange, peach, &c., should be cut in slices, dipped in the batter, fried nicely, and when dried before the fire, strewed with sifted sugar. Such fruits as strawberries, cherries, apricots, and raspberries, should be thrown into the batter, and a spoon- ful poured into the boiling fat; all stones must be previously removed. For frying vegetables mix into the batter, in the place of sugar, &c., savoury herbs and salt. Time, two or three minutes to fry. Sufficient for four or five persons. {See also Batter for Frying Meat, Fish Fruit, &c.) Fruit Fritters (another and richer way).— Beat the yolks and whites of two eggs separately, add half a pint of cream, a little salt, and enough flour to form a thick batter; beat until smooth, and put in fruit as above; fry in boiling fat, and dry before the fire on a sieve. Serve on a napkin, with white sugar sifted over the fritters. Time, about three minutes to fry. Probable cost. Is. Sufficient for four or five persons. Fruit (G4teau de Pommes).—Put some ripe red currants into a jar and set it in boihng water, or in the oven, to draw out the jmce. Put one pound of the juice into a preser^^xlg-pan, with one pound and a half of fine ripe codhngs, which should bo peeled, and have the cores carefully and whoUy extracted. When they have boiled slowly about half an hour, and can be easily pulped, and the mixture is qmte smooth, add the same weight of powdered su^r as of apples^ Stir until the sugar has dissolved, then boU fast the remainder of the time, taking care to keep the contents from burning at the botlom of the pan. If put into a mould the fruit wiU keep many months! It may be ser^-ed turned out^rna- mented ^Wth cut blanched almonds, and w^th a whipped cream round it. Garnish with hyM- coloured apple jelly for dessert.PBU FRIT ( 23S ) Pruit in Brandy.—First clarify as much sugar us will bo reqiiiied—allow one pound of sugar to every two pounds of fruit. Break the sugar into lumps, and dip them into cold water; this water will be sufficient for the clarifjong process. Put the moistened sugar into a preserving-pan, heat it slowly, and after it comes to a boil, simmer gently. When beads form on the surface, the liquid is ready for the fruit; lay in two-pounds of peaches, apricots, or plums, but only keep them in long enough to be softened; be careful they do not crack. Set them to cool for a few hours, then take out the fruit on a sieve to drain, and boil the syrup until it is thick; let it grow cold, and pour it, with an equal quantity of pale brandy, over the fruit, which should previously have been placed in glasses. Fruit Isinglass Jelly;.—Get the juice from China oranges and a little lemon-juice, or Seville orange-juice, about a quart in all— of the latter, however, only enough to give a pleasant sharpness. Strain the juice through a double muslin bag, and again through a flannel one. Have ready, in an enamelled saucepan, one ounce and a half of the best isinglass, dissolved in a little water ; stir in half a pound of finelj'-sifted sugar and a few bits of the orange-rind, and simmer and skim, but do not let the liquid boil; add the juice and simmer again ; then strain through muslin, made thick by being doubled three or four times. When nearly cold, fiU moulds with the jelly. It should be quite clear when turned out. If it is not BO, it may be clarified according to directions already given. (See Calf's Foot Jelly.) Fruit, Juice of.—For ordinary household purposes the fruit is better pulped. Squeeze out with a wooden spoon all the juice and pulp of any fruit, and strain it through a coarse wire sieve, which will not pass the skins or seeds. To every pound add four ounces of refined sugar. Put into pickle-bottles, and place them up to the neck in a pan of water. Boil, and let the bottles remain in the water till cold. Cork tightly and cover the corks with ■ rosin or wax. Time to boil, half an hour from the time the water commences to boil. To ascertain any required quantity of fruit juice for pre- serving, weigh it, for it is thus much more correctly tested than by measure. Weigh first the vessel intended to hold the juice, and then the juice itself. Fruit, Lemon, in Cream.—Rub off on lump sugar the rind of two lemons; add this, with the strained juice, to one pint of cream, six ounces of sugar, and one dessert-spoon- ful of brandy ; mix these ingredients weU together, and freeze them in an ice-pot, stirring them with a wooden spoon. Time, half an hour for the freezing process. Cost, 28. 6d. Enough for eight glasses. Fruit, Macedoine of.—Set a jelly mould into a pail of rough ice and salt, and arrange the fruits according to fancy, between layers of clear well-sweetened jelly, flavoured with some liquor, as noyeau or maraschino. If the jelly be poured into the mould an hour before it is required, the outside will 1* be sufficiently frozen, and the inner part will be as firm as can be desired. When removed from the ice-pail, turn out the jelly on a glass dish, first dipping the mould into tepid water, which will loosen it immediately. The mould should be covered while in the ice, and the top or cover hid from sight by more ice and salt. Fruit Pastes.—These pastes are prepared by stoning the fruits, and pulping them, after slowly boiling, through a sieve. The pulp is then returned to the pan to dry up the moistui-e, when sugar is added equal in weight to the paste; it is again mixed well, and di-ied slowly, until no impression can be made upon it. Spread out on plates, which should be wetted with brandy. When cold, store between layers of paper. Pastes made from elder fruit and black currants are excellent, considered medicinally. Fruit Pasties or Turnovers. —Boil down fmit* of any kind with a little sugar, and let it grow cold. Take one pound of puff paste; cut it into as many pieces as you require pasties; roU out in a circular form, and put the fruit on one half, turn the other half over on the fruit, and pinch the edge, which should be first wetted with white of egg. Raw fruit may be used, but in this case the paste must be thicker, and not quite so rich. Meat, or savoury pasties, form the principal food of the agricultural classes in Cornwall; but a mixture of meat, potatoes, and turnips is more generally used for their pasties. Time for fruit pasties, twenty minutes. Sufficient for one dozen and a half. Fruit Pie for Invalids.—The rich crusts usually made for fruit tarts are highly indigestible, and should not be eaten by delicate persons. As a light substitute for pastry, the following recipe will be found useful:—Cover the bottom of a pie-dish with rather thick slices of spongecake. If small ones be used, make only two slices of them, and lay the brown part downwards in the dish. Fill up with any seasonable fruit, and strew amongst it as much fine sugar as will be required to sweeten. Pour in water jiearly even with the fruit, and make a cover with the remaining slices of spongecake. Bake in a moderate oven for forty minutes. Sufficient for five or six persons. Fruit Puddings.—Butter a mould or basin, and line it with a suet crust; three quarters of a pound of flour, with four ounce of suet, will do for this purpose. FiU with fruit, and put in sugar, with a little water if the fruit requires it. Add a cover of paste, and press the edges closely together. Tie down with a floured cloth and put into boiling water. Some persons prefer to boil a pudding in a cloth, and for some fruits—those without much juice— this answers very well. Dip the cloth into hot water; and the better to form the pudding, stretch the cloth in a basin, lay the paste over, and fill with fruit. Time to boil, one horn- and a half. Probable cost, 4d., exclusive of fruit. Sufficient for five or six persons. Fruit Pudding Paste.—Chop six ounces of fresh suet as fine as can be, mix it with one pound of flour, and a little salt. Toucli itpRtr PBU ( 234 ) lightly, making it into a smooth firm paste, with wiitor. KoU out twice; tho quiclior this is douo tho lightor will bo tlio pusto. Time, u quax-tor of an hour to prepare. Probable cost, 6J. SulKciont for six or seven persons. Fruit Sauce for Puddings.- Hoil in a quarter of a pint of water liuubl*' that ([uaiitity of fruit (raspberries, strawberries, or currants do well for this sauce), and four ounces of good sugar. Take off tho scum as it rises, and when the juico looks rich, and is thickish, strain, and serve it over the pudding. This sauce may bo made from preserved fruits, when fruit is out ot season. Fruit Souflae.—Split, peel, and stone a dozen tine ripe apricots, put them into a preserving-pan, with half a pint of water and half a pound of sifted sugar. Keep them simmering gently, until the apricots can he pulped and heaten through a fine sieve; then mix together four ounces of floui-, and half a pint of cream; add it to the pulped apricots, with two ounces of butter, and stir over the fire until it hoils. Take the mixture off the fire, and stir in six beaten yolks of eggs, and lastly and lightly nine whites, whisked to a firm froth. Have ready a soufiie dish, with a band of paper above to allow of its rising a great deal, which it \vill do if the above instruc- tions are carefully carried out. Bake in a moderate heat, and tirni the dish about that all parts of the souffle may be alike. Time, three-quarters of an hour. Fruit, Soup of Cheese-gourd.—Stew the fleshy part of a cheese-gourd in butter, and mix it over a slow fire until it be of the consistence of thick cream. Add weak broth ' or water to it, and flavour with sugar and salt. To two quarts of water, put three or four pounds of gourds. Cover the bottom of a tureen with toasted bread, cut into dice, and pour the soup on the bread. Fruit, Soup of Spring. —The better class of pulpy vegetables are sometimes called in cookery spring-fruit, such are rhubarb, vegetable-marrow, gourd, cucumber, and pump- kin ; they may all be dressed with a little cream, milk, butter, or stock, and form a nice delicate dish, very healthful, if not very nutritious. Early spring rhubarb, cut into pieces, and simmered with a few small onions, in some good stock, a seasoning of salt and cayenne, and a thickening of butter roUed in flour, will give a zest. The rhubarb should be peeled and blanched. One bundle of Victoria rhubarb will make two quarts of soup; skim while boiling, and serve strained over toasted bread sippets. Fruit, Stewed. — Every one who has lived on the continent must have appreciated the various compotes of fruits that are so readily and easily prepared, and must have recognised their superiority over stewed fruits- prepared by the English method. Almost all kinds of fruit may be treated in the foreign style, and if served with macaroni or rice, are excellent, and much more wholesome than pastry tarts. The principal point lies in the preparation of the syrup; the best refined sugar should be used, but a« the fruits are for use within the next two or three ditys, they du not requue much, wliich is very ecoiiomicul. Fruit Suet Pudding.—Take equal quantities of fi(jur and finoly-iji'epaicd Ijrcad- crunibs, a (juarter of a pound oi eacli, put tliom into a bowl; add four ounces of slirod suet and two ounces of sugar; moisten with a cup ol milk, and beat until smooth; then sprinkle and mix into the batter four ounces of well-washea currants, with a toa-s]JOonful of grated ginger and one of salt. Boil in a floured cloth, not in a mould. Time, two hours to boil. Probable cost, 7d. Suflicient for three or more persons. Fruit Sweet Sauces.—Stone some plums or cherries, having first washed them in cold water. Break the stones, blanch the ker- nels, and boil them gently in a very httle water. Stew the fruit until quite tender with about a glassful of red wine, and a little cmnamon, powdered. When it is tender, add a piece of bread, toasted, and the water from the kernels, and stew imtil aU can be pulped through a sieve. Sugar may be mixed according to taste, and the sauce may be thinned with wine or water. Fruit Tarts, Preserved.—Line a dish with puff paste, and fill with any kind of pre- served fruit; lay bars across, cut tliem with a tin-cutter; finish off neatly by laying an edging of paste round the border, and ornamenting it tastefully. Bake a very hght brown. Fruit, To Bottle.—Currants, gooseberries, and other fruit may be thus preserved. After freeing them from stalks, put them into wide- mouthed glass bottles, and shake them that the bottles may be full; place the bottles, slightly corked, into a nearly cold oven for four or five hours. When the fruit shrivels, remove it from the oven, and cork the bottles tightly and quickly, tying down securely with leather. Keep in a dry place. Fruit, To Bottle, with Sugar.—Pro- cure the fi'uit dry and sound, and drop it gently into bottles (those -with wide mouths and glass stoppers are the best) ; put the bottles in a kettle of water, but do not wet the corks; let them stay till the fruits are ready to burst, then put in the corks, and wax them over to exclude the air. The bottles must be kept in a drj' place. Gooseberries, plums, currants, can all be done in this way. Fruit, To Candy.—Make a syrup with one pound of good sugar and half a tea-cup- ful of water. When boiling, put in any pre- served fruits, and stir gently until they get crystallised ; then take them out, and dry them in an oven or before the fire, but do not let them get coloured. Fruit, Vol-au-vent of. —This is an exceedingly dehcate branch of cooker^^ and requires much skill and care. A vol-au-vent should be made of "French puff paste" {see Puff Paste, French). Brush the paste over wnth lemon-juice before folding for the last time. Roll out to the desired thickness, and place the paste on a baking-tin. Cut into shnpp with a tin-cutter or plate, and brush the centre with( 235 ) PRY PRU white of egg, leaving a margin all round un- moistened, that it may rise the better. Make a deep incision, an inch from the edge, in a cir- cular fonn; sepiu-ate the edges well, wthout , cutting quite through, and put the paste to rise ' in a good brisk oven. When sulhcieutly risen, lift otf the middle portion that was miu-ked out, and scoop out the dough, ^vithout cutting quite through or injm-ing the edge. Fill the hollow with bread, and put the vol-au-vent again into the oven. Brush over Nvith egg, and cover with sifted sugar; when done, take out the broad, and put strawberries or raspberries, beaten up and mi.\ed with pounded sugar, on the inside of the vol-au-vent. Serve with whipped cream over the top. Time, to bake, three-quarters o£ an hour. Fruit Wafers, for Dessert.—Extract the juice from cherries, currants, or any kind of fruit, by putting them into a jar in the oven, or by standing the jar in boiling water. To every pound of juice add the same weight of sugar, and stir over a slow fire until the juice becomes thick; then butter some papers, and cover with the mixture, which keep in a slow oven until they loosen from the paper, and can be turned. Dry thoroughly, and cut into shapes. Keep in a box, each layer divided by paper ; they are best if kept near a fire. Frumenty.—To a quarter of a pint of wheat, that has been boUed tender in mUk, but not pulped, add a quart of new milk or cream, a piece of cinnamon, equal quantities of sugar and well-washed currants, three ounces of each, and boil for fifteen minutes longer. Take the mixture off the fire, and stir in (if only milk be used) the beaten yolks of three eggs and a glass of brandy; send to table in a junket bowl, to be served in cups. Time to boil wheat, from three to four hours. Probable cost. Is. Frumenty (another way).—To one quart of ready-boiled wheat allow two quarts of new milk; keep the whole stirred over a slow fire, and, from time to time, throw in well-washed cur- rants or stoned raisins, allo%ving about a quarter of a pound of the fruit to the above quantity of mUk. When sufficiently boiled, remove from the fire, and stir in the beaten yolks of three eggs, pre\-iously mixed with a little milk. Fla- vour with nutmeg, cinnamon, and sweeten to taste. Do not boil again, but stir for a few minutes over the fire. It is sometimes served in cups, with brandy as an additional flavour- ing. Time to boil wheat, three to four hours: to simmer with milk, twenty minutes. Fry, To.—To fry anything is to boil it in hot fat, and this operation is too frequently badly performed, owing to ignorance on the part of those who engage in it with regard to two or three points which require close attention. When well done it is a satisfactory mode of cooking small portions of meat and poultry, is especially suited for fish, and is generally well liked. When despatch is necessary, it is the most convenient method, as by its means heat can be made to act on food most expeditiously. The fat for frying, whether di-ipping, skimmings of saucepans, oil, lard or butter, should bo sweet, clean, fnish, free frou, :..alt. Tlu' latter qualification is desirable, because salt keeps whatever is fried in it from browning properly. Fresh sweet dripping and the clarified skim- mings of saucepans are to be preferred to any- other fat for frjong. Lard is not so good, because it leaves the appearance of fat on what- ever is cooked in it, and this does not look well. Butter heats very quickly, and so there is danger of burning when it is used; it also re- quires a slow fire, but is not so objectionable if it is clarified before being put into the pan. Oil, which is often spoken of as the best thing for this purpose, is certainly very good, but it re- quires great care and experience. It should be FBTING-PANS. heated gently over a slow fire, as it has a ten- dency to rise quickly and boil over, and it must have at least twenty-five minutes heating before it is ready for use. All fat after being used foi frying should be allowed to cool for a few minutes, and then should be strained through a gravy-strainer into a clean earthenware jar. The cooling is necessary to prevent, the hot fat melting the strainer. The same fat may, with care, be used several times. When it acquires a dark brown burnt colour it is no longer fit for use. Care should be taken that fat which has been once used for fish should be kept exclusively for that purpose, and not used for anji-hing else. The fii"e under the frying-pan must be clear, brisk, and fi-ee from smoke and flame. A mix- ture of cinders and coke make a fire most suited for this purpose. A handful of salt thrown upon it will help to make it clear. There ought pro- perly to be two frying-pans for use in each kitchen—and one of these should be kept ex- clusively for fish. A proper frying-kettle is deep, and is made with a wire drainer fitting in- to it, which can be lifted in and out by handles. When this is not at hand, an ordinary iron stewpan may be used instead. Dry frying— that is, frying with a small quantity of dripping or butter—is done in a shallow frying-pan. Whatever kind of pan is used, however, the cook should see that it is perfectly clean, and free from damp and dust. It should never be more than half-filled with fat, for fear it should rise too high in the pan, and boil over. One gre^t secret of success in frying is, to allow the fat to attain the proper degree of heat before placing whatever is to be cooked in it. For ordinary purposes, the temperature should reach 345"' Fahrenheit. Fat is quite hot when it ceases hissing, and is still. In order to be quite certain on this point, hold a small piece of bread in the pan for five or six seconds. If, when it is taken out, it is crisp and brown, put in immediately what you wish to cook; if the bread is burnt, the fat is tooGAL ( 236 ) PRY hot; if It 18 pale and soft, it is not hot enough. All fish which 18 to be fried required a certiin amount of preparation. After boint? washed and gutted, it must be well di-ied. To insure this, it should first bo patted all over with a sott cloth, and afterwards dredged with flour rho preparation should then be finished in one ot two ways. The first is to dip the fish into an egg, which has been well beaten for three or four minutes, and mixed with a tea- spoonful of oil and a tea-spoonful of cold water and thou to cover it all over with bread-crumbs made from stale bread, which has been'finely gi-ated. The second is to dip it into a batter made of flom- and water of the consistency of thick cream; this batter is improved by the addition of a beaten egg, though it is very good without. For inexperienced cooks the latter plan 18 much the best. It is well to have at hand some light brown bread-raspings, such as are used for hams. They can be obtained at the baker's, price Id. for a bag containing about a pint, or, if it is necessary to prepare them at honne, can be easily made from crusts of bread which have been kept in a slow oven till they are browned all over, and then have been rolled, pounded, and sifted, till they are as fine as pos- sible. The baker's raspings will require this. They should then be put into a box with a closely-fitting lid, and stored in a dry place; and they will keep any length of time. After dry- ing, flouring, egging, and bread-crumbing the fish, sprinkle a few of these crumbs lightly over the top, and press them down with the fingers. They will insure the appearance being good; and, if after cooking, any spot is deficient^ sprinkle a few more on that place. The fat in which fish rissoles, croquettes, patties, cutlets, and all similar articles are fried, should be suffi- ciently deep to cover them entirely, so that they may truly be said to be boOed in hot fat. As we should never say that we had boiled a piece of meat if we had put a spoonful of water at the bottom of the saucepan, and placed the meat upon it, so we cannot say that we have properly fried fish, &c., if we merely place a small quantity of dripping or butter at the bottom of the frying-pan, and lay the article to be cooked on it. If the proper depth can- not be obtained, the fat must, at any rate, be aufficiently deep to dip the fish into, and then first one side can be done, and then the other. In turning a fish, the fork should be stuck into the head. If the frying-pan is so short that it cannot be put in whole, it is best to cut it right across into slices; fry these separately, then place them on the dish in the form in which they were before they were cut. The time required for frying depends upon the nature of the article and the depth of the fat, 80 that no rule can be given. By experience the cook will soon be able to tell when it is done enough; and if the raspings are used, it need not remain on the fire any longer in order to brown them. The flesh of fish ought to leave the bone easily, and should have a moist appear- ance. Mullet should be wrapped in buttered paper before being fried. Lastly, it must be remembered, that all fried dishes, when served without sauce, should be dried thoroughly before being sent to table. To accomplish this, wrap them in blotting-paper, or pkco them on a reversed sieve, or in a cloth before tlie fire, and turn tJiem two or throe times, so that each side may be equally di-ied. Fun Pudding.—Mix a couple of spoon- luis (it arrowroot with half a pint of miLk and the same of cream. Put it into a stewpan with sugar to sweeten. Stir until it boils' . ilave ready sliced api)les enougli to fill a krgf>.' sized duih ; they should Ijo sliced thin, and sugar should be strewn between the slices. Put bits of butter over the apples, and bake them gently till soft. Let them go cold, pour the arrow- root (also cold) over them. Garnish with apri- cot jam, and serve. Gala Pudding (sometimes caUed-General batisf action Pudding).—Take three eggs separate the whites from the yolks, beat the latter weU, mix with them a cupful of boiling milk, flavoured with lemon, and add a table- spoonful of sugar, a piece of butter the size of a walnut; pour this custard into a stewpan simmer gently, stirring all the time, untU it thickens. Line the edge of a pie-dish with a good crust. Three parts fill it with slices of sponge- cake, spread with apricot, strawberry, or any other jam. Pour the custard over them, and bake in a moderate oven. When the pudding is suf- ficiently cooked, lay on it the whites of three eggs, beaten to a firm froth, and sprinkle a dessert-spoonful of white sugar upon this. Put it into the oven a few minutes longer, and serve. Time, fifteen minutes to bake. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Galantine of Fowl {see Fowl, to Bone without Opening). Galantine of Pigeons.—Take a couple of pigeons, retaining the heads and feet, but cutting off the ends of the toes. Wrap the heads, after cleaning them, in paper, and be careful not to break the necks. Eoast the birds till they are of a nice uniform bro'wn. Take some clear savoury jelly prepared before- hand, warm it, and flU with it a bowl of suit- able size. When the pigeons are nearly cold place them in the jeUj-, tying their heads, bending their feet under them, and placing a sprig of myrtle in their bills, so that they may look as natural as possible. The birds should be placed upside Aovm in the jelly, which should cover their feet. When the jelly is fii-m—say in about twenty-four hours—turn out upon a dish and serve. Galantine of Quails.—Bone, flatten, fill, and truss or roll quails, or other small game, in the same way as for a galantine of fowl. Three or four birds will be required for a dish. If there is any difficulty about the boning, any poulterer vnW do it. Bind each bird separately with tape, and tia it in a nap- kin. Put them into a stewpan •with some good veal stock, a cow-heel, all the bones, a carrot, a large onion, stuck with one clove, a blade of mace, one tea-spoonful of salt, and one of pepper. Stew gently for nearly an hour. LetGAM ( 237 ) thorn cool in their own stock, and if rolled press them between dishes, and put a weight on the top. Eeduce the stock to jelly, clarify it, cut it into dice, or rough it, and use it for gar- nishing the dish in which the hirds are served. This method of preparing game involves an unusual amount of trouble. Sufficient, three or four for a dish. Probable cost, about Is. 6d. •each, but quails are seldom offered for sale. Galantine of Sucking Pig.—Bone a yoimg pig, which, for this purpose, ought not to be more than three weeks old. If this cannot be done at home, the butcher will do it. Lay it flat on the table, back downwards, and spread on it alternate layers of good forcemeat, truffles, pink ham, tongue, or anythrag which wiU look and taste weU when the pig is cut into. Season each layer with pepper and salt, and roll the pig tightly, binding it well with tape. It will be more succulent if a few slices of fat i bacon are fastened on the outside. Wrap it in a pudding-cloth, and simmer it gently in some good veal broth, in which may be put the bones of the pig, a large carrot, a blade of mace, twelve peppercorns, and some sweet herbs. When sufficiently cooked, let it cool in its own liquor, and when taken out, press it under a weight, and let it be eaten cold. Garnish the dish with aspic jeUy, made of the liquor in which it was boiled. Time, three hours to stew the pig. Probable cost, varies from 6s. to 12s. Sufficient for a dozen people, or more. Galantine of Veal.—Remove the bones from a breast of veal, and lay it flat on the j table, skin downwards. Beat it well with a ! chopper, in order to make it roU more easily. | Take the hard-boiled yolks of ten eggs, and i pound them to a paste; mix with them one i dessert-spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of ; pepper, a dessert-spoonful of chopped parsley, i a dessert-spoonful of sweet herbs, powdeted, a ; tea-spoonful of anchovy sauce, and half a salt- i spoonful of pounded mace. Brush the veal | over thickly with beaten egg, and spread the ; paste on evenly, and place over it strips of veal i forcemeat [see Forcemeat of Veal), the hard- i boiled eggs, cut into thin slices, three or four truffles, cleaned and sliced, a few mushrooms, cut into small pieces, and a pound of lean ham. Arrange these prettily on the meat, so that they "will look well when the galantine is cut. Season rather highly, and roll the veal as tightly as possible, binding it with tape. Sew it in a cloth and put it into a saucepan, with some good veal stock, the bones, a carrot, a ; large onion stuck with two cloves, a bunch of ; sweet herbs, and a little salt and pepper. Let i it simmer gently for six hours, and cool in the liquid. Take it out, put it between two dishes, and place a weight on the top, and let it remain thirty-six hours before being taken out to bo cut. Before dishing, remove the tapes, and garnish the dish with savoury jelly. If pre- ferred, the veal may be very gently baked in the oven. It should then be basted liberally with bacon fat. Galette.—The galette is a favourite cake with the Parisians, and is generally eaten with sweets. This is an excellent recipe. Dissolve one ounce of fresh German yeast m half a pint of lukewarm milk, mix with one pound of bis- cuit flour, and knead for ten minutes. Let it rise near the fire, and keep it warm. In another bowl mix one pound of Vienna flour with eight ounces of butter and seven eggs. Work for ten minutes. Put the two together and work and smack the dough vigorously for twenty minutes till it is spongy. Cover it, put it near the fire, and let it rise for two hours. Make it into balls, place on a floured baking-tin, and let them rise again before the fire. Bake in a quick oven. Galette, Poor Man's.—Rub a quarter of a pound of dripping into one pound of floiir, add a pinch of salt, and make it into a paste with a little milk or water. Roll it out about three-quarters of an inch in thickness, form it into round cakes, about five inches in diameter, brush a little water over the top, and sprinkle sugar on it. Bake in a good oven. Time to bake, half an hour. Probable cost, 4d. Suf- ficient for two cakes. Gallino Rennet.—A rennet may be made from the rough skin which lines the gizzards of fowls or turkeys, and the curd obtained by its means is more delicate than that made from calf's rennet. The skin should be well-washed, salted, and covered to protect it from dust, and hung in a cool place to dry. A little piece soaked in a cupful of boiling water for eight hours produces the rennet. Game.—Under the general denomination, " game," are included all wild animals which, are fed for human food; and in nothing is the skill and knowledge of a cook so much displayed as in its management. The peculiar flavour for which it is so much prized is entirely lost if it is not kept and hung for a sufficient length of time sifter being killed. Without this, venison is not so good as mutton, and an ordinary chicken is more palatable than a pheasant or a partridge. Care must, however, be taken that the dish is not offensive when placed upon the table. All game is better for being young. Game should not be washed before cooked. If wiped with a dry cloth, it may be thoroughly cleansed, and the flavour preserved. Game and Macaroni Pie.— Put a quarter of a pound of pipe macaroni into a saucepan of boiling stock, and let it simmer till it is tender, but unbroken. Drain, and lay it at the bottom of a deep dish, and on it place a layer of game (either partridges, pheasants, or grouse), cut into neat joints, and stewed until they are three-parts cooked. A few slices of raw, lean ham should be put amongst the game, together with a few chopped mushrooms. Season with pepper and salt. Place a layer of macaroni on the top, grate over it a little Parmesan cheese, and put little lumps of butter here and there. Pour some good gravj', mixed with cream or new milk, over the whole; cover with a good crust, and bake in a moderate oven. Before serving, add a little more boiling gravy, and milk if required. Time to bake, about one hour. Sufficient, a pie made with one large or three small birds, and a quarter of a poimd of macaroni, for six persons. Probable cost, imcertain,GAM GAM ( 238 ) Gamo, Black (a la Koyale).—Pick, di-aw, and tihv^o ii black cock (this nuiHt bo douo carofully, as tho skin ia oanily broken). Truss it liko a pheasant, lay it before a dear lire, basto it plentifully witli butter, and, when sufficiently cooked, serve it on a slico of toast which, after BLACK OAUE. being flavoured with lemon-juice, has been placed in the dripping-tin under the bird for some minutes. Garnish with water-cresses and some forcemeat balls, made of game. Good gravy should be sent to table with it. This bird should not be cooked until it gives decided indications of being ready for it. Time, about three-quarters of an hour to roast. Sufficient for two or three persons. Probable cost, 5s. the brace. Seldom offered for sale. Game, Crumbs for.—Take the crumbs of a stale roll, pass through a wire sieve, dry, then place in a stewpan, with one ounce of fresh butter. Place them on a slow fire, and move them about with a wooden spoon tUl they are a bright brown. Put them on paper to drain, and hand them round on a separate dish. They are especially required when the game is rather high. Time, a few minutes to brown. Game Curry.—Take one or more wild birds, according to the size of the dish you require. Cut them into convenient-sized joints, rather small than large, and fry these in hot butter till lightly browned. Score the joints slightly in one or two places, place a little curry-powder in each opening, and squeeze over it the juice of a lemon. Cover the joints with good brown gravy, and let them simmer gently for twenty minutes. Allow a table-spoonful of curry-powder, a dessert- spoonful of the pounded kernel of a cocoa-nut, a dessert-spoonful of the pulp of an acid apple and a quarter of a pint of good gravy to every pound of meat. Sinamer a quarter of an hovir longer. Serve with rice round the dish. Probable cost, uncertain. Sufficient, one mode- rate-sized bird for two persons. Game, Essence of.—Take the remains of cold game. Divide them into small pieces, and put them into a saucepan with two or three ounces of butter, four shallots, finely minced, a sprig of thyme and basil, three cloves, and six peppercorns. Fry gently until they are brightly browned, then add a pint of atook, and boil on a gentle file for twenty iiiinutes, Stram tliruugh a sieve, and put aside for use! Probable cost, exclusive of the c<jld game, 6(1. Two table-spoonfuls of the essence will liavour liall' a ])int of gravy. Game, Forcemeat for.—'J'ake a quarter of a pound each of fat liacon, calf'ts liver, and fi.-iely-grated bread-crumbs. Cut the meat into hiiuUI pieces, and fry them until half cooked, then chojj them small, put tluiiri into a mortar, and pound them with thi: crumbs, a tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoon- fnl of ])eppor, and a ])inch of ]>owdered mace. Whcm well ^wundtjd, add the well-beaten yolkK of two eggs, and if these are not sufficient to bind all together, add a little cream. Time, twenty minutes to prepare. Probable cost, lOd. for this quantity. Game, Hashed.—Take the remains of any cold game. It will be all the better for being under-dressed. Cut it into convenient- sized joints, and cover them, to keep them from getting dry and dusty. Put the trimmings into a saucepan, with a breakfast-cupful of stock, a bundle of sweet herbs, half a dozen peppercorns, and an onion stuck with two cloves; thicken with a dessert-spoonful of flour, and a littio butter, add a salt-spoonful of salt, and simmer gently by the side of the fire till the sauce coats the spoon. Strain the mixture, add a glass of port wine, put in the pieces of game, and let it simmer for ten minutes longer. It must not boil. Put the game on a hot dish, pour the gravy over, and garnish with toasted bread. Care should be taken to remove the soft part inside moor game, if it is very high, or it will make the hash bitter. Time, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, 4d., exclusive of the cold game and wine. Sufficient, one pound of meat for two persons. Game. Hashed (Venison).—Cut the remains of venison into convenient-sized pieces, about half an inch in thickness. Put two ounces of butter into a saucepan, and mix with it, very smoothly, two oxmces of fine flour. Let it remain on the fire till slightly browned, then add a breakfast-cupful of good stock, a tea- spoonful of essence of anchovy, a tea-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and eight or ten oysters, with their liquor, a quarter of a tea-spoonful of cayenne, and four table-spoonfuls of milk. Let it simmer till the sauce coats the spoon. Add a glass of port wine and the shces of venison. Let the sauce simmer again till the venison is thoroughly heated; but the sauce must not boil, or the meat will be tough. Serve on a hot dish, with some toasted sippets. Time, about one hour to prepare. Probable cost. Is., exclusive of the wine and cold meat. Suffi- cient, two pounds of meat and this quantity of sauce for four or five persons. Game in Aspic Jelly.—Make as much aspic jelly as will fill your mould. Put a little at the bottom, let it stiflten, then arrange in it the remains of cold game, cut into naat ]>ieces, and alternately with them slices of pink ham, pieces of hard-boiled eggs, or anything that wiU add to the appearance. Do not crowd the meat, but leave room for the jelly to goG^AM GAM ( 239 ) between the pieces. Fill up the mould Nvith jelly, aud set in a cool place. Before serving, dip" the mould for a second or two in boiling water, to nuike it turn out more easUy. Time, twelve hours to set the jelly. Suitable for a breakfast or luncheon dish. Game Panada (Invalid Cookery).—Boil some game, such as a young pheasant or a young partridge, until it is three-parts cooked. Take off the skin, pick the flesh from the bones, and pound it in a mortar with a little of the hquid in which it was boiled, the crumb of a French roll, and a little salt, grated nutmeg, and rasped lemon-rind. When beaten to a paste, put it into a saucepan, with a Httle more of the liquid, and let it simmer for ten minutes. It should be as thick as good melted butter. Time, about one horn- to prepare. Probable cost, 4d., exclusive of the game. Sufficient, a few spoonfuls may be given to an invalid. Game Patties.—Make a nicely-flavoured mince of the remains of game. Moisten with a httle gravy. Make some small round patties of good light crust, or pirff paste, brush them i over with beaten egg, and bake them tiU lightly \ browned. Warm the mince in a saucepan, put a little in the centre of each patty, and serve them hot, piled on a napkin. Time, ten minutes to bake. Probable cost. Id. each, exclusive of the game. Sufficient, allow one for each person. Game, Perigord Pie.—This somewhat celebrated pie, composed of partridges and truffles, derives its name from Perigord, a place where truffles are very abundant. To make it, first line the crust of a raised pie with fat bacon; spread on it a forcemeat made by mincing and poimding liver and seasoning in the following proportions :—Half a pound of liver (the par- tridge's liver and a little calf's liver may be used), half a pound of fat bacon, half a pound of lean ham, two shallots, four oimces of seasoning spices, one or two truffles, and a little pepper and salt. StufE the partridges with this force- meat and some truffles; place them - in the crust, back downwards. Fill up the vacant places with forcemeat and bacon, put a shoe of bacon on the top, cover with pastry, and bake in a moderate oven. When the pie is baked nearly enough, fill it up with some gi'avy, made by stewing the trimmings and a httle isinglass. Time, four hours to bake. Probable cost, un- certain. Sufficient for a dozen persons. Game Pie, English.—The groat point to j be attended to in this dish is to use venison ! that has been well kept. The best end of the neck is what should be taken. Trim and rub it with mace, nutmeg, cayenne, and salt. Boil down the trimmings of venison and the inferior joints of a hare to make gravy. Take the back and thighs of the hare, and after boning them, fill with forcemeat, using shallot and the raw liver of the hare minced up in the forcemeat. Line a dish with short crust, put in the venison ajid hare, filling up every space with forcemeat. Add a littlo of the gravy, put on the cover, ornament the top, and bake in a hot oven. When venison is not liked, substitute the prime joints of another hare. Time, about two hours and a half to bake. Game Pie for Christmas.—This pie is suitable where game is abundant and ex- pense no object. Make a thick stiff crust, for diiections for which, see Raised Pie. It may either be baked in a mould, or formed into shape with the hands. The latter operation is not easy for those unaccustomed to it. Line the bottom with sHces of fat bacon ; spread over that a layer of forcemeat, made by scalding the hvers of the birds, and pounding them with their weight in fat bacon and lean ham, a few truffles, some bread-crumbs, salt, pepper, savoury herbs, parsley, and rasped lemon-rind. Then put in some of the joints of the birds— the breasts should be larded—and strew over all some finely-chopped mushrooms. Repeat until the pie is full. Season rather hghtly, and keep putting little lumps of butter in amongst the other ingredients. Lay some slices of bacon on the top, put on the lid, ornament with pastry leaves and other devices, brush over with beaten egg, and bake in a moderate oven. If the pie is to be served hot, pour some strong gravy over it as soon as it is baked; if cold, take away the bacon from the top, and put some roughed aspic jelly over it before sending it to table. This pie may be made of pheasants, partridges, woodcocks, snipe, grouse, &c. fime to bake, three or four hours for a large pie. Probable cost, &c., uncertain, according to the size and contents. Game Pie (Hunting).—Make a stifE short crust for raised pie {see Raised Pie); bake in a moderate oven. Cut into neat and rather small joints, one turkey, two pheasants, two partridges, two woodcocks, haH a small hare, one grouse, one snipe, and one large ox-tongue. Stew them gently till tender, season rather highly, put them into the crust, pour over them a httle of the gravy in which they were stewed, and strew on the top some finely- chopped stewed mushrooms. Put on the lid, and wann the pie in a moderate oven Aen wanted. Time, three or four hours to pre- pare. Game, Pies of.—Very good pies may be made of game, either cut into joints or, if the birds are small, put in whole. The seasoning should be rather high, and it is usual to put a beef-steak at the bottom of the dish. Game pies are often too much cooked, and thus the flavour is spoilt. A httle good melted butter, mixed with claret, and a soup^on of lemon-juice may be poured over the game when it is to be eaten hot. Stewed macaroni is sometimes sub- stituted for the beef-steak in game pies. Time, cost, &c., according to the size. Game, Pur^e of.—Take the remains of cold game; pick off all the meat, and put the skin, gristle, and bones into a saucepan, with a bnnch of thyme, a stick of colerj', a breakfast- cupful of stock, and a lump of butter rolled in flour. Simmer gently until reduced one-half. Remove the scum as it rises. Put the meat into a mortar with a lump of butter, a little pepper and salt, and a spoonful of gravy. Pound it to a smooth paste, and rub it through a coarse( 240 ) GAM GAM sieve. Mix it with the gnivy and a little cream, Btir it over the flro till hot, aud Horve with cro(niettos of potatoes round the dish. Time, about one hour and a half to jjroparo. Pro- bable cost, 6d., exclusive of the cold game. Sufficient, puree made with one pound of game, for three persons. Game, Rissoles of—Take the remains of cold ganu!, remove the skin and gristle, mid pound tlu) meat in a mortar, with one dessert- spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of pepper, the quarter of a small nutmeg, grated, half a pound of bread-crumbs, soaked in milk, and drained, thx-ee table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped mush- rooms, a piece of butter, and the yollc of an egg, to every pound of meat. Eiiclose in pastry {sec Rissoles), or, if preferred, make into balls, dredge them with flour, and dip them in beaten egg and bread-crumbs. Fry them in hot butter or lard till lightly browned, drain on a little blotting-paper, and serve piled high on a nap- kin. Garnish with parsley, and send brown sauce to table vnth them. Time, ten minutes to fry. Sufficient, one poimd of meat, &c., for three persons. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of the cold game. Game, Salmi of.—A salmi differs from a hash in this, that it is made of game which has been, only partially dressed, whilst a hash consists of game which has been properly cooked and become cold. Carve the meat into neat joints, rejecting the skin and giistle. Put a quarter of a pound of raw, lean ham, finely minced, into a saucepan, with a little butter, a sprig of parsley, two or three shallots, a tea-spoonful of pepper, a blade of mace, and a little salt and cayenne. Let these ingredients stew gently for a few minutes, then mix in smoothly a table-spoonful of flour, and a dessert-spoonful of mushroom powder. Let it brown, and add a breakfast- : cupful of good stock, and a glass of claret. Let i the mixture boil. Put in the bones and trim- ; mings, and simmer over a moderate fire for 1 an hour or more. A small carrot, a bunch I of savoury herbs, and a bay-leaf may be I simmered with the rest. Skim carefully, strain, and when ready to serve, put the joints in with the gravy, and heat all slowly, but it must not boil. Garnish the dish with toasted sippets. A sahni should be highly- seasoned. Probable cost, exclusive of the game and wine, lOd. Sufficient for four or five persons. Game, Sauce for.—Put a piece of butter the size of an egg into a saucepan, with two minced shallots, and six ounces of the shin of beef, cut into small pieces. Fry until lightly and equally browned, and to secure this, turn frequently. Pour on gradually one pint of boihng water, add a blade of mace, a sprig of parsley, two bay-leaves, and a little salt and pepper. Thicken with a table-spoonful of flour mixed smoothly with a little water, add a little browning, if necessary, and simmer gently for an hour and a half. Strain, clear well from fat, and boil up again, adding one glass of claret and a table-spoonful of walnut ketchup. Pour a little of the gravy roimd the birds, and send the rest to table in a tureen. Probable cost, '9d., exclusive of the wine. Sufficient for a brace of small birds. Game, Sauce for (another way).—By substituting tlic remains of a roasted partridge iur the beef in the last recipe, a very su- perior sauce may be made. Where game is to be had in plenty this may be a convenience. The flavour will be more completely drawn out if the flesh is picked from the bones and pounded before being stewed. Time, one hour and a haU to stew. Sufficient for a brace of small birds. Probable cost, 4d., exclusive of the meat and wine. Game, Sauce for (another way).—Take one table-spoonful of lemon-juice, the thin rind of a lemon, and the rind of a Seville orange, being careful to cut away the white part. Put these into a saucepan with a breakfast-cupful of Espagnole or good brown sauce. Let them simmer gently; then strain and add a tea- cupful of claret and a pinch of salt. Season rather highly with pepper and cayenne. Time, a quarter of an hour, the brown gravy being already made. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of the wine. Sufficient for a pint of gravy. Game, Sauce, Piguante, for.—Take the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, and mix it smoothly with a table-spoonful of salad-oil, stir in with it a little salt and pepper, a mustard- spoonful of made mustard, a dessert-spoonful of walnut ketchup and three dessert-spoonfuls of vinegar. Time, a few minutes to prepare. Probable cost, 4d. Sufficient for two small birds. Game Sausages.—Take the remains of game, cut off the meat, remove carefully the skin and sinew, mince the flesh and pound it in a mortar, with six ounces of lean ham, and six ounces of butter to every pound of meat. Season rather highly with salt, pepper, and powdered mace. Put the mixture into skins and fry in hot butter or lard for three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost. Is. per poimd, ex- clusive of the cold game. Sufficient, one pound for two or three persons. Game Soup.—This soup may be made of the remains of cold birds which are not required, though, of course, if uncooked, the soup will be better. Pick off all the white meat you can get from the bones, and pound it in a mortar. Put the bones and trimmings into a stewpan, with five or six carrots, a slice of lean ham, a ! little pepper and salt, two or three onions, and i three pints of white stock or water. Simmer gently, and when the turnips are tender, take them out, mix them ^vith the pounded meat, and press them through a tamis. Keep adding a little of the broth, so as to press as much through as possible. Return the broth to the saucepan, and let it get quite hot. A few minutes before serving draw it from the fire, let it cool a little, and mix with it .the wcll- beaten yolks of two eggs, and a cupful of cream. It must not boil after the eggs are added. Time, one hour and a half to stew the bones and trimmings. Sufficient for five per- sons. Probable cost, exclusive of the cold game. Is. for this quantity.( 241 ) GAB GAM Game Stock.—The remains of cold roast game, and the bones and trimmings, should be stewed down, and will make good stock. Put some lean ham at the bottom of the stow, and on this lay the game. Just cover it with stock or water, and boil it quickly down to a glaze. Add more liquid, allowing a pint of water to 3very pound of trimmings. Flavour with carrots, turnips, onions, &c., remove the scum as it rises, and stew gently for three or four hours. Strain it oft' for use. Game, To Devil.—Some hours before the devil is wanted, the flesh should be rather deeply scored, and covered with a powder made of equal parts of salt, cayenne, and curry powder, with the addition, if liked, of mushroom or truffle powder, butter and mustard. Broil over a hot clear fire, until brightly browned and hot, but not burnt. Devilled game is oftener than not eaten diy, as a relish with wine. When sauce is wanted, it may be made by putting a break- fast-cupful of thick brown gravy into a sauce- pan, with a tea-spoonful of mixed mustard, a shallot finely minced, a spoonful of ketchup, the juice and finely-grated rind of a lemon, a tea- spoonful of salt, a quarter of a tea-spoonful of cayenne, and a tea-spoonful of bruised capers. Simmer for ten or fifteen minutes, and serve in a tmeen. The devilled game will be all the better if the meat has been under-dressed. Moor game is particularly suited to this mode of cookery. Time, a few minutes to broil the bones. Probable cost, 2d., exclusive of the game. Allow one or two bones for each person. Game, To Devil (another way).—Take equal parts of salt, cayenne pepper, and curry powder, with double the quantity of powdered mushrooms or truffles. Split open a brace of woodcocks, rather imder-roasted, cut them into small pieces, score these pieces, and rub the powder weU into them. Crush the trail and brains, and mix them with a hard-boiled egg, the rind of half a lemon, finely-grated, a quarter of a nutmeg, grated, a dessert-spoon- ful of ketchup, a glass of sherry, and the juice of half a Seville orange. Mix these ingre- dients smoothly together, and put them with the game into a silver stew-dish, over a lamp. Simmer gently, stirring frequently, till the game has absorbed most of the liquid, then throw in a spoonful of salad-oU, stir it round quickly, and serve instantly. Time, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of the game and wine. Sufficient for five or six persons. Game, To Keep from Tainting.— While it is very desirable that game should be hung a proper length of time, to render the flesh tender and in proper condition, it is most undesirable that it should be served at table in a state offensive to sight and smeU. Choose birds which are not much mangled by shot. Hang them, if possible, in a cool place, where there is a current of air blowing right through. Be careful to preserve them from flies; black pepper wiU do this. Examine them every day, and if there is danger that they will not keep, draw, pick, and crop them, place them on a dish, cover them with muslin, and sprinkle a little poundc;! charcoal under and over them. If they appear already spoilt, they may often be made tit for eating by washing in vinegar and water, or by washing and thoroughly rubbing thorn with salt, and putting them for ten minutes in boiling water. Take them out, hang them in a cool place, and powder them lightly over with charcoal. If game is tainted, wash it before roasting, but if not, it should not be touched with water. Game is as often spoilt by being frozen as by being too fresh. In frosty weather it should be brought into the warm kitchen three or four hours before it is cooked. Charcoal may be made by putting a piece of wood in the oven, and letting it remain until it is burnt through, and quite black. Game, To Remove Taint from.— Wash the game first in salt and water, aud afterwards in fresh water, and dry it thoroughly in a cloth before cooking; or put some fresh powdered charcoal, tied in muslin, inside the crop. Take the charcoal out, and throw it away, before sending the bird to table. Garbure.—This is a dish used in the north of Europe—something between a soup, a stew, and a bake. It may be composed of almost anything, but neither meat, vegetables, nor bi"own or rye bread, must be absent. Beat three pounds of lean beef, cut them into small pieces, and put them in a stewpan with a knuckle of ham or veal, two large onions Ituck with six cloves, a bunch of parsley, and five or six sliced carrots. Pour over these a pint of water, and simmer gently imtil the juice of the beef is drawn out, then add two quarts of water or stock, and simmer over a moderate fire for two hours. Put two yoimg cabbages into another saucepan, place a layer of bacon under and over them, and add half a pint of stock; cover closely, and stew gently imtil the cab- bages are sufficiently cooked. Toast a lai-ge slice of rye or brown bread; place the cabbages on this, with the meat above them, and a string of fried sausages all round. The liquid in which the meat was stewed may be served as soup. Probable cost, 4s. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Gardener's Omelet. — Beat half a dozen eggs, season them with pepper and salt, and mix in some finely-minced vegetables— either salad, green peas, French beans, powdered herbs, or whatever the season affords. Green peas and French beans must be cooked before they are mixed with the eggs. Make the omelet in the usual way. Time to fry, three or four minutes. Probable cost, 8d., exclusive of the vegetables. Sufficient for foirr persons. Garfish.—These fish are not much liked on accoimt of their strong oily taste. The oil, however, lies in the skin, and if it be taken quite off, the flesh is not to be despised. The garfish may be either boiled, broiled, baked, or stewed, or cooked as follows'. — Take off the skin, cut the fish into pieces about one inch and a half long, and put them into a marinade made of vinegar, oil, pepper, salt, sweet herbs, and two or three cloves. Let them He an hour or two, then put them into a jar, cover them closely, add a little gravy, if necessary, and put the jar into a saucepan of boiling water.GAR GAR ( 242 ) Lot it l)oil until tho fi«h is sufiiriontly cooked Sorvo with auchuvy or purHley sauce." Any of the recipt'8 for oels may bo used for gurlish Timo, about half an hour. Tlio cost is uncer- tain, for tho gurlish is suldoni olforud for sale. Sufficient, one ordinaiy hsh for two persons. Garlic.—Garlic roquiros to bo usea most judiciously, or it will spoil whatever is cooked \vith it. If used carefully, howovof, it will impart a most delicious flavour to Halads and sauces; but it is so strong that, for many dishes, all that is necessary is to rub the dish which is to be sent to table sharply round with a slice of it; or, better stUl, to rub it on a crust of bread, and put the bread into the soup, &c., for a few minutes. A very general prejudice exists against garlic, probably on account of its being used in the same way as an onion. If it is desired to diminish the strength of the flavour, this may be done by boiling the garlic in two or three waters. Garlic and Eggs {see Eggs and Garlic). Garlic Gravy.—Cut a pound of lean beef into slices, and put them into a stewpan with two ounces of rasped ham, a scraped carrot, and one clove of garlic. Brown the meat slightly on both sides, then pour over it one pint of stock or water, a bundle of savoury herbs, another clove, and a lemon sliced right through. Simmer gently for an hour, thicken the gravy with a dessert-spoonful of flour, mixed smoothly with a small quantity of water, and strain through a coarse sieve. Add salt and pepper to taste, and a little grated nutmeg. Probable cost, Is. 3d. Sufficient for one pint of gravy. Garlic, Mild Ragout of .—Take off the skin from some cloves of garlic, and put them into fast-boiling water. In five minutes drain the water from them, and put in fresh. Boil another five minutes, and repeat the previous performance until the vegetable is tender. A pinch of salt may be added to the water when tho garlic is nearly done enough. Mix it with the gravy which is to be sent to table ^vith roast mutton. If it is not wished to decrease the strength of the flavour quite so much, change tho water less frequently. Time about half an hour. Sufficient, half a pint of garlic with lialf a pint of gravy. Garlic Paste.—Slice four or six cloves of gai li(;, and pound them in a moiiar, inuisten- iiig thorn occasioiuilly with olive-oil until they form a smooth mass. Put the mixture into jars, cover with clarified butter, and keep in a cool place. TluH composition, wjmmonly called agoh, IS used for flavouring dishes with garUc. Tinui, about hulf an )i<jur. Prohable cost, ad. or -Id. SiiHiciont, a little taken on the jjoint of a knife will flavour a pint of gravy. Garlic Pickle.—Divide one pound of cloves of garlic, take off the skin, and lay them in a dish. Strew salt phintifully over them, and let them stiind for two or three days. Wipe them, and lay them in the sun to dry. Put one quart of vinegar into a preserving-pan, with a tea-spoonful of salt, one ounce of whole pepper, and one ounce of bruised mustard-seed. Boil quickly, remove the scum, and throw in the garlic for thi-ee minutes only. Pour into an earthen jar, and, when cold, tie a bladder or four or five folds of paper tightly over the pickle. The vinegar must cover the garUc, and as it becomes absorbed, a little more may be added. Garlic Sauce.—Blanch two cloves of garlic in boihng water twice. Dry them, and pound them in a mortar with a salt-spoonful of salt, half a salt-spoonful of pepper, and a piece of butter the size of a small egg. When quite smooth, press the mixture through a coarse sieve, and stir it into half a pint of good melted butter. Add the juice of a lemon. Time, twenty minutes to prepare. There will be sufficient for three-quarters »f a pint of sauce. Probable cost, 5d. Garlic Vinegar.—Take three ounces of the cloves of garlic, remove the skin and bruise them shghtly in a mortar. Put them into an earthen jar, with a tea-spoonful of salt, half a dozen cloves, and half an ounce of whole ginger. Pour over them a quart of the best vinegar, cover closely, and in ten days or a fortnight strain off for use. Two or three drops will prove a valuable addition to sauces and salads. The flavour may be increased or diminished by leaving the garlic a longer or shorter time in the vinegar, or by altering the proportion of garlic. Before straining off for use taste two or three drops, and see if the flavour is such as will be Uked. Garnish.—In dishing meat for the table, garnishing foi'ms a most important part, as it is highly desii-able that the eye should be satisfied as well as the palate, and the most delicious dish may not be enjoj'ed if its appearance be against it. Vegetables and sauces form the principal garnish for meat dishes. It is evident, however, that in garnish- ing very much must depend on the good taste ot the cook, and the material at her command. A gencr!il idea only of various garnishes can be given hero, and their adaptation must be left to the taste of those employing them. Garnish (Ma Financiere) —Take three cocks- combs, throe large mushrooms, three truffles,GAit GAR ( 243 ) thi-ee chicken queneUes, three artichoke bottoms, and three scoUops of sweetbreads. Treparo these (,ee recipe for each), let them boil for hve minutes in some good brown sauce, season rather highly, and add a glass of light vnne. When this garnish is used, it gives its name to a dish. It is, however, expensive and elaborate, and unsuitod to ordinary domestic cookery. Sulhcient for a small dish. Garnish, Asparagus for—Chop the green part of asparagus into pieces the size of a pea. Boil them until nearly tender, drain and shake them over the fii-e for ten minutes, with a little butter, pepper, and salt. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. per hundred heads. Sufficient, tifty heads to garnish a small dish. Gamisli, Beetroot for.—Wash a beet- root thoroughly. Put it into boiling water, and let it keep boiling until a fork can be put into it with ease. Take it out, drain it, and, when it is wanted, peel it and cut it into thin slices, which may be shaped with an ordinary pastry- cutter. Time, two hours to boil. One root will garnish a large dish. Probable cost, Id. Garnish, Celery Sauce for—Wash two heads of celery, scald and drain, and cut them into pieces two inches long. Lay these in a stewpan with as much fast-boiling water as will cover them entirely, add one onion, one piece of sugar, one bay-leaf, a little salt and pepper, simmer till tender, then thicken the sauce with flour, and stir in a cupful of milk. This may be used as garnish for boiled fowls, &c. Time, half an hour to simmer the celery. Suffi- cient, two heads and a half-pint of sauce for one large fowl. Probable cost, 2d. per head. Garnish, Cocksconibs for.—Put the combs into a saucepan with plenty of cold water. Place them on the fire and stir con- stantly until the skin begins to rise. Take them ofl'.immediately, remove the skin, and throw the combs into salt and water. Change the water two or three times, and let them remain until quite white. Dry, and boil them in some good stock, flavoured with lemon-juice. Time, eight hours to prepare. Garnish, Cucumber.—Peel the cucum- ber and slice it; keep scooping out the seeds as it is cut down. Put a piece of butter the size of a large egg into a saucepan, with two table- spoonfuls of lemon-juice, a little salt and pepper, and a lump of sugar. Let the ingredients stew slowly until sufficiently cooked, then strain oif the butter, pour over them a little good white sauce, and serve with steak, cutlets, &c. Time to stew, twenty minutes. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient, one moderate-sized cucumber, with half a pint of sauce, for two pounds of cutlets. Garnish, Cucumber, for Salmon - Pickle two or three pounds of salmon, or more, if required. Season rather highly. Drain off the liquor, place the salmon on a dish, and cover it completely ^vith two or three layers of thin sUcos of fresh cucumber, from which the rind has been taken. Time, twenty minutes to slice the cucumber. Probable cost, 6d. each. Suffi- cient, one good-sized cucumber for three pounds of salmon. Garnish for Poultry, Game, &c.—Put a quarter of a pound of fresh butter into a stew- pan, and, when it is hot, fry in it equal quantities of lean ham and kidney, either mutton or veal, cutting the meat into thin slices of equal size. IVIince a little pai-sley, strew it over these slices, add pepper and salt, and squeeze in the juice of a lemon. When lightly browned on both sides, place the meat and the gravy round the poultry, (Sec, which it is intended to garnish. Time, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, mutton kidneys, 2d. each. Sufficient, four kidneys for one large fowl. Garnish, Fowls' Livers.—Blanch the liver of the fowl, and partly boil it. Cut the bitter part away, and mince it very finely. Make half a pint of good melted butter. Let it boil, then put with it the minced liver, a tea-spoonful of chopped lemon-rind, and the juice of the lemon. Where poultry is plen- tiful, and expense no object, three or four livers may be stewed in the savoury stock, strained, and placed whole, or in halves, round the dish. Time, a quarter of an hour to boil the liver. Sufficient, half a pint for one good-sized fowl. ] Garnish, Pried Bread for.—Cut the i crumb of a stale loaf into slices, about a quarter ' of an inch in thickness. Stamp them out into pretty shapes with an ordinary pastry cutter, and fry them in hot butter, or lard, until lightly browned on both sides. Drain them from the fat, and put them round the dish they are intended to garnish. If they will not keep in their places, brush the under side with white of egg, mixed with a little flour. Time, two or three minutes to fry. Garnish, Green Peas for.—Boil some young green peas until tender. Drain them until quite dry, then put them into a saucepan with half an ounce of butter for a quart of peas, a little salt and pepper, and a salt- spoonful of moist sugar. Shake them over the fire for a few minutes, and pile them in the middle of a dish of cutlets. Time, fifteen minutes to boil the peas, five or ten minutes to shake them over the fire. Probable cost, 8d. per peck. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Garnish, Mushrooms for.—Cut away the giitty end of the stalk, and pure the mush- rooms. Throw them as they are done into a basin of cold water; wash them well, lift them out of the water with both hands, so as to leave the sediment at the bottom, and put them in a saucepan, with the juice of a large lemon, two table-spoonfuls of water, two ounces of fresh \)utter, a pinch of salt, and a little pepper. Shake the saucepan constantly, and let them boU for ten minutes. They may be put into a jar, and closely covered, and will keep for some time. Probable cost, Is. per pint. Garnish, Parsley Fried for.—Parsley may be best fried in the small wire baskets which are sold for the purpose. Wash, and dry it thoroughly. Put some lard, dripping, or butter into an iron stewpan, and when it is just about to boil, hold the basket in it for a second or two, then take the parsley out, and dry it before the fire. If a wire basket is not at hand, put theGAB ( 244 ) paisley into the fat, and as soon aa it is crisp tako it up with an egg-slico, and dry it hefore tho firo. Friod and crisped parsley (see Crisped Parsley) are the most usual, and the cheapest of ^'arnishings, hut they require care in pre- paration, p] very thing fried and savouiy is sei-ved with fried parsley. Prohablo cost, Id. per bunch. Garnish, Potatoes Fried for.—Choose largo potatoes. Penl thcni, and cut them into slices, about tho eighth of an inch in thickness. Wash, and dry them in a cloth. Heat enough di'ipping to cover them entirely. As soon as it boils and is still, put in tho potatoes, a few at once; shake them to insure their being evenly cooked. When lightly browned and crisp, drain them from the fat, sprinkle a little salt over, and serve. Time, ten minutes to fry. Probable cost, 2d. per pound. Allow half a poxmd for each person. G-arnisli, Potatoes Fried for (another way).—Boil as many potatoes as are required. When nearly cooked, take t'hem out, and put them into a stewpan with some hot fat. 8hake the pan, to prevent them burning, and when they are lightly browned and crisp, drain, and serve as hot as possible. It is an improve- ment to flour, dip them in beaten egg, and roll in bread - crumbs before frying. Time, ten minutes to fiy. Probable cost, 2d. per pound. Sufhcient, two potatoes for each person. Garnish, Potatoes Fried for (another way).—Mash some potatoes with a httle butter and milk. Shape them into balls, and proceed as in the last recipe. Time, ten minutes. Pro- able cost, 2d. per pound. Sufficient, half a poimd for each person. Garnish, Pur^e of Green Peas for. —BoU. some young green peas, in the usual way, untn tender. Pound them in a mortar, press them through a sieve, and put the pulp into a saucepan with a small lump of butter, a little salt and pepper, a lump of sugar, and a table-spoonful of good stock. Stir over the fire until the puree is quite hot, and serve, piled high on a dish, with the cutlets, &c., round it. Time, half an hour. Probable cost, 8d. per peck. Sufficient, one peck for six or seven persons. Garnish, Tomatoes for.—Remove the stalks of the tomatoes. Put them into a sauce- pan, sufficiently large for all to be in it without resting one upon another. Cover them with good gravy, and stew gently imtil tender, turn- ing them carefully once or twice, to insure their being equally cooked. Thicken the gravy with a little flour and butter, rub it through a sieve, add cayenne, and salt, and serve with cutlets, roast meat, «fec. Time, half an hour to boil the tomatoes. Sufficient, a basket for a hot joint. Probable cost, 9d. or Is. Garnish, Truflles for.—Wash the truffles by brushing them in several waters tmtil they are quite free from sand. Put them into some good stock, and let them boil gently for fifteen minutes. They should cool in the liquid. Slice for use. Garniture (on Ragout). — Blanch three lambs' sweetbreads in boiling water ; soak and Blmmer them gently, with the livers, in as much good brown gravy as will cover them. When they have been on the firo about twenty niinutes, take thern up, cut them into small pieces, and return them to the saucepan with some button-nmshrooms, pepper, salt, and nut- meg. Simmer until quite tender. Tliicken with flour and butter. A few minutes before serving, draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, and mix with the ragojlt, very giudually, the yolks of two eggs and a cupful of cream. Tho ragoilt must not boil after the eggs are added. Put finely-flavoured forcemeat balls round the dish, and, if they arc hked, peas. Asparagus points or French beans may be sent to table in the same dish. Time, forty minutes altogether. Allow three sweetbreads, &c., for six or seven persons. Probable cost, 3b. each. Gateau.—A gateau is a French coimtry cake for highdays and holidays, made of dougli, with which has been mixed currants, butter, and eggs. It is baked in the shape of a long loaf, and is served cut in slices, which are spread with butter, and eaten at the end of a meal. It may, of course, be made either plain or rich. For an ordinary gateau the rule is, a quarter of a pound of butter, a quarter of a pound of cur- rants, a quarter of a pound of raisin/^, five eggs, and a little yeast, to every pound of flour; no sugar. Milk is sometimes used instead of water, but this makes the cake drier. Probable cost, 6d. per poimd. Gateau (i la Dauphine). — Thoroughly beat the yolks of ten eggs; mix with them half a pound of pounded sugar, a table-spoonful of chopped lemon-rind, two table-spoonfuls of rose-water, and a quarter of a poimd of the best flour. Beat the whites to a solid froth, and stir them in with the rest. Put the mixture into a well-oiled tin, and bake in a good oven for about forty minutes. Probable cost. Is. 2d. Sufficient for a moderate-sized gateau. Gateau de Chocolat.—Make a gateau, as in the last recipe {see Gateau a la Dauphine). When it is sufficiently baked, turn it out of the tin, and let it cool. Put half a pound of sugar into a saucepan, with a quarter of a pint of water. Dip the finger and thumb into cold water, and keep taking a little of the boiling sugar be- tween them. When it looks like strong glue it should be taken from the fire, allowed to stand eight or ten minutes, and then be mixed with three ounces of chocolate, dissolved in a little water. Work all well together, and while the mixture is still hot, glaze the gateau with it, and ornament with spun sugar. Time, forty minutes to bake the cake. Probable cost. Is. 8d. Sufficient for a moderate-sized gateau. Gateau de Compiegne.—Gateau de Compiegne is made by mixing a little brioche paste {see Brioche Paste) with currants and raisins. Gateau d'Epice. — oateau d'Epice is the name for French gingerbread flavoured with vanilla. Pound a quarter of ^ pod ot vanilla with a dessert-spoonful of brandy, btu: it into half a pound of treacle, and put it into a saucepan with a quarter of a pound of butter, half an ounce of powdered cinnamon, hall an ounce ot ground ginger, an ounce of randier?.GAT ( 245 ) gAt lemon, orange, and ciia-on together, cut mto thin sUces, and a pinch of salt. Let these mmmer gently for live or six minutes, Stirling aU the time, then pour the imxture into a bowl, and, when cool, add as much finely-sifted tlour as will make it into a solid batter. Bake in a slow oven on buttered tins, in small rounds, placed at a little distance from each other. Time to bake, three-quarters of an hour. Pro- bable cost, Is. 6d. per pound. Gateau de Nanterre. — Gateau de Nanterre is nearly the same thing as Gateau de Compiegne. The only difference is that the former is sweetened, and made with currants; the latter is not sweetened, and both currants and raisins are used in its preparation. Gateau de Plomb.—Take three pounds of dried sifted flour and rub into it two pounds of butter. Make it into a paste with six eggs, adding gradually three gills of double cream and also a salt-spoonful of salt, and a table-spoonful of sugar. Work the paste for a minute between the hands, and leave it for an hour. Make it into a roll about two and a half inches in thick- ness, score it with a knife, and tie it in three or four strips of buttered paper, to prevent its getting 'out of form. Bake the roll in a hot oven, and when it is done enough, put it be- tween two dishes, with a weight upon the top, and let it remain until it is cold. If preferred, the paste may be made into small cakes, instead pf a large roll. "When properly made, baked, and pressed this cake should be close and heavy. Gateau de Pommes. — Take half a pound of loaf sugar, put it into a saucepan with half a pint of water, and let it boil to a thick syrup. Put with it one pound of nicely- flavoured apples, weighed after they are pared and cored, and the thinly-sliced rind and juice of a small lemon. Stir the contents of the saucepan constantly, and boil until they are stiflt. A tea-spoonful of isinglass may be added, if liked. Press the gateau into a damp mould, and when it is stiflE, turn it out, and serve with custard round it. Time, about three-quarters of an hour. Sufficient for a small mould. Probable cost, 9d., exclusive of the custard. Gateau de Riz (French Kice Pudding).— Put four oimces of rice into a saucepan, with a quart of new milk, two table-spoonfuls of sugar, and the rind of half a lemon. Simmer gently until the rice is tender and the milk absorbed. Let it cool, then mix with it the well-beaten yolks of six large eggs. Pour a little clarified butter into a copper cake-mould, and turn it round on an incline until the butter has coated every part of it and is firm. Sprinkle some finely-grated bread-crumbs in the mould, and shake it well, so that they may cover the surface evenly. Beat the whites of the eggs to a firm froth, and mix them with the rice, then put it very gently into the mould, so as not to displace the crumbs, and bake in a moderate oven for one hour. The pudding should turn out firm and brown, looking like a cake. Probable cost. Is. 2d. Sufficient for a good-sized mould. Gateau de Semoule (French Semolina i'udding).—Put a quart of new milk into a saucepan, with the thin rind of a lemon, and let it stand by the side of the fire until the flavour is thoroughly extracted; then take out the rind, and let the milk boil. Throw in five ounces of semolina, a lump of butter the size of a large egg, a tiny pinch of salt, and four table- spoonfuls of sugar. Simmer gently for a quarter of an hour, stirring all the time, and add gradually the yolks of six eggs well beaten. Prepare a mould as for Gateau de Riz. Just before putting the semolina into the mould, add the whites of four eggs, beaten to a firm froth. Bake in a moderate oven. Both this gateau and the Gateau de Riz may be agreeably varied by flavouring the milk with vamlla, cocoa-nut, or almonds, instead of lemon. Time to bake, one hour and a half. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Sufficient for a good-sized mould. Gateau, Napolitaine.—Cutalargeround ■spongecake into slices nearly an inch thick. Spread a little good jam on each slice, and re- place it in its original position, allowing it to soak in a little noyeau or maraschino before another slice is placed upon it. The topmost piece of cake should have jam on the under side. Sweeten a breakfast-cupful of thick cream, and flavour it according to taste. Pour this round the cake, which should be orna- mented with sugar-icing, coloured with cochi- neal. Time, one hour to prepare. Probable cost, exclusive of the noyeau or maraschino, 2S. 6d. Sufficient for a moderate-sized dish. Gateau of Hare.—Take the remains of cold hare. Scrape all the meat from the skin and sinews, and pound it in a mortar, with the liver of the hare, a piece of calf's liver (pre- viously boiled), a slice of lean ham, and a small piece of butter. When well pounded, mix with it half its bulk in crumb of bread, which has been soaked in a little cold stock or hare soup, and a table-spoonful of brandy. Add well- beaten eggs till the mixture is of the consist- ence of a firm batter, pour it into a weU-buttered mould, place two or three slices of fat bacon on the top, tie the whole in a floured cloth, and boil gently for an hour or more, being careful that the water is not sufficiently high in the saucepan to enter the mould. Turn out the gateau, and pom- a sauce round it made of good hare stock, highly-seasoned and flavoured with port wine and red currant jelly. The gateau may be baked if preferred. Probable cost, &c., according to the size. Gateau of Mixed Fruits. — Put one pound of codlings, pared and cored, into a saucepan, with a little water to prevent bui-ning. Boil until the apples are reduced to pulp, then add their weight in sugar, and boU for a few minutes longer. Pour in half a pint of red currant juice, and half a pint of raspberry, or any other fruit juice that may be liked and at hand. A little isinglass or gelatine may bo added, to assist in stiffening. Pour the gateau into a damped mould, and serve in a glass dish with custard. Time, nearly one hour. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for a pint mould. Gateau of Mixed Fruits (another way). —Take a cupful of two or three different kinds of unsweetened fruit juice. Put them '"nto a suucc-GEN ( 246 ) pan with a pound of sugar to overy pint and a half of juice, a littlo applo jolly, tho juico of a lomun, aim a quarter of a pound of round rico. I'lucu the pan on tho liro, and stir iionatanlly until the niixturo thickens; then pour it into an oiled mould, and, when it ia cold, turn it out ou a glass dish, and serve with a littlo i;reani or custard. If tho fruit juice is already sweetened, less suyar will, of course, he roipiired. Time, half an hour. Prohable cost, Is. 4d. per quart. Suthciout for a good-sizod mould. Gaulfres (an easy way to make).— Clarify a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, and mi.v it with a pound of siftod loaf sugar, one pound of host fiour, eight eggs svoll beaten, two tablo-spoonfula of brandy, a tiny pinch of salt, a stick of pounded vanilla, and one or two grates of nutmeg. Drop the mixture on well- buttered baking-tins, in rounds the size of tho top of a wne-glass, and, as soon as they are baked, cui'l them round a reed. Let them dry in a cool oven or before the firo, and shake a little sifted sugar over them before serving. A little good jam may be spread lightly on them, or they may be filled with whipped cream. Time, a few minutes to bake. Probable cost, 2s. 4d., exclusive of the brandy. Sufficient, a few may be put round a mould of jelly or blancmange. G-auflfres, Flemish.—Beat the yolks of six eggs with one pound of fine flour, mix thoroughly, and add rather more than a pint of milk, a quarter of a pound of butter, a small pinch of salt, and a tea-spoonful of yeast. Mix with a wooden spoon until the flour is quite smooth, and leave it three-quarters of an hour to rise; then add a glass of brandy, and the white of the eggs beaten to a firm froth. Heat the gauifre-irons over or in a clear slow fire. When sufficiently hot, rub the inside with a little clarified butter or fresh lard, and fill one side of the irons with a little of the batter. Bake a few minutes, and when the ganffre is brightly browned on one side, turn the irons over to brown it on the other. The irons may be opened a little, to see if it is done. Turn the gauffre out, rub the inside of the iron with a little more butter, and repeat this with each gaufEre. Set the gauifres in a cool oven or before the fire. Serve quite hot, and dust a little sugar over before serving. If any are left, they may be warmed again before the fire or in the oven. Before attempting to make gauflires it is well to see them made. Probable cost. Is. 3d. for this quantity. Sufficient, a dozen or eighteen for a dish. GauffVes, Flemisll (another way).—Dis- solve one ounce of yeast in half a pint of new milk; mix twelve ounces of flour Avith the milk, and make it into a soft dough, which put to rise near the fire. Melt six ounces of butter; add to it half an ounce of powdered sugar, the rind of two oranges rubbed off on some more sugar, which should also be pounded, two well-beaten eggs, and a little salt. When the sponge has risen to double its original quantity, mix the above ingredients well with it, adding half a pint of whipped cream, the yolks of four eggs, and the whites whisked to a firm froth. JIuc the whites lightly with the batter, and cover again to rise. When ready, smear the gauifre-irons with clarified butter, iill with a spoon, and Ijake a Ijright yellow coloui-. Turn tlio gaufl^re-hons that tho batter may run u\Ui the other side, and set them over a charcoal tire. Let them bi; removed from the irons when done, triiimied, and tli(.-n set in the oven or before u fire. Shake lemon, orange, or vanilla sugar over, and serve on a napkin. Great care must be taken to prevent the gaulfrea from getting too brown. Probable cost, 28. 3d. for this quantity. Gelatine Jelly.—Where economy if) a consideration, as it is in tlie majority of homes, pretty and palatable dishes may bo made from gelatine. The objection to the use of this article is that it often imparts a gluey taste to tho jelly, the only remedy for which ip that care should be taken to obtain as good a quality of gelatine as possible, and not to use a larger quantity than is necessary for the fimmess of the diflh. Soak the gelatine in water until it swells ; this will be in about an hour. Dis- solve it in a little boihng water for a few minutes, add wine, lemon-juice, sugar, and flavouring according to taste, and pour into a damp mould. Keep it in a cool place until firmly set. If very stiff, it may be turned out more easily if dipped in boiling water for a moment. Probable cost, 6d. per quart packet. Gelatine Jelly (another way).—Soak.one ; ounce of gelatine in half a pint of cold water I for three-quarters of an hour. Stir it into a pint i of boUing water, remove the scum as it rises, and I when the gelatine is quite dissolved, strain it j through a bag, and it is ready to be sweetened '\ and flavoured in the same way as calf's-feet jeUy. In nearly all the recipes where isinglass is ordered, gelatine may be used, but, though half the price, it is neither so nourishing nor so delicate in flavour. Probable cost, 6d. per oimce. Sufficient, one ounce of gelatine for a pint and a half of jelly, or a quart if placed upon ice. Gelatine and Isinglass Jelly («««Isin- glass and Gelatine Jelly). General's Sauce.—Put a tea-spoonful of cloves into a mortar with half a clove of garlic, one bay-leaf, a sprig of thjTne, the thinly-peeled rind of half a Seville orange, three minced shallots, a tea-spoonful of whole pepper, a blade of mace, and one ounce of salt. Bruise them thoroughly. Put them into a stone jar, and posr over them a cupful of sherry, two table-spoonfuls of verjuice, two of lemon-juice, and four of vinegar. Cover the jar closely, and put it into a cool oven, or by the side of the fire, for five or six hours. Pour off the liquid gently, strain it, put it into small bottles, and keep them tightly corked. Suffi- cient, mix a tea-spoonful in half a pint of melted butter or gravy, and taste if more be required. Probable cost, Is. per pint, exclusive, of the sheiTy. Geneva Buns.—Rub two ounces of butter into a poimd of flour, add a pinch of salt, and set the sponge with a dessert-spoonful of good yeast, mixed with half a pint of milk. Let it'stand for nearly an hour, then work itO-EN GEir ( 247 ) into a light dough, adding a well-beaten egg, mixed with a little lukewai-m milk. A little sugar, a few curmuts, and some chopped candied lemon may be added. Cover the bowl which contains the dough with a cloth, and put it by the side of the tire to rise. In about half an horn- make it up into rolls; brush these over with beaten egg, and bake in a good oven for twenty minutes or more. Probable cost. Id. each. AUow one or two for each person. Geneva Buns (another way).—Rub three ounces of butter into two pounds of Hour, and set the sponge with a table-spoonful of yeast, mixed with a pint of new milk; add a little salt, and some safe'on water, if liked. Let it rise one hour. Beat two eggs, and stir in a quarter of a pint of hot milk; then knead up the dough with the eggs when milk-warm. Let the dough stay before the fire half an hour longer, then make small rolls, brush them with yolk of egg, and bake them from twenty to thii-ty minutes. If a rich bun is desired, add six ounces of Bugar, three ounces of butter, half a pound of currants, the grated rind of a lemon, and two oimces of candied orange-peel. Probable cost. Id. each. Sufficient for eighteen buns. Geneva Plidding (sometimescalled George Pudding).—^Put half a cupful of best Carolina rice into a saucepan with a pint of new milk, a piece of butter the size of a nut, four table- Bpoonfuls of sugar, and three cloves. Simmer gently tiU the milk is absorbed, and the rice quite tender. Take out the cloves, beat the rice thoroughly, and add a dozen large apples, boiled till reduced to a pulp. "When cold, mix with the rice and apples four well-beaten eggs, and a glass of sheiTy. Pour the mixtm-e into a well-buttered pie-dish, and bake in a moderate oven till lightly browned. Serve with wine sauce. Time, three-quai-ters of an hour- to bake. Probable cost. Is. 3d., exclusive of the wine. Sufficient for five or six persons. Geneva Wafers (a pretty dish for a juvenile party). Rub a quarter of a pound of fresh butter to a ci'eam, and mix with it, very smoothly, a quarter of a pound of flour, and three eggs, thoroughly whisked. Add three drops of the essence of vanilla, and three table- apoonfuls of pounded sugar. Beat -with a wooden spoon until the ingredients are thoroughly mixed, then drop a dessert-spoonful at a time on a well-buttered baking-sheet, and put the wafers in a moderate oven. When suf- ficiently baked, take them out of the oven, twist them very carefully, pr they will break, to the shape of small comucopiae, and put them in the oven a minute or two longer to get crisp. Half fill them with jam, and put a little whipped cream on the jam. The cream put in half of them might be slightly coloured with cochineal. Time, a quarter of an hour, or less, to bake. Probable cost, 9d. Sufficient for a good-sized dish. Genevese Sauce (for Salmon, Trout, &c).—Put two ounces of fresh butter into a stewpan. Let it melt, then add three ounces of lean ham, cut into small pieces, a sprig of thyme, a sprig of parsley, a scraped carrot, a bay leaf, a blade of uiace, and a small onion, stuck with three cloves. Stir the ingredients quickly over the fire, then mix in, very smoothly, one table-spoonful of flour. Beat the paste with a wooden spoon, and pour in by degrees one pint of good stock. Let all stew gently for an hour. Strain, and return the sauce to the pan, thickening it with a little flour and butter, and adding a large wine-glassful of white wine, and a dessert-spoonful of lemon-j uice. Season with salt and cayenne. Let the sauce boil after the thickening is added, and serve as hot as possible. Probable cost, Is. 6d. per pint. Suffi- cient for thi-ee or four pounds of fish. Genevese Sauce (another way).—Put two ounces of fresh butter into a saucepan. Let it melt, then add a sprig of thyme, a sprig of parsley, half a dozen mushi-ooms, a scraped carrot, a large onion, sliced, thi-ee or four cloves, a bay-leaf, and a blade of mace. Simmer very gently over the fire until the onion is soft, then pour over the mixture a pint and a half of stock. Stew for an hour or more. Strain, and return the sauce to the pan, thicken with a little flour and butter, add a glass of sherry, a dessert- spoonful of lemon-juice, a tea-spoonful of anchovy essence, and a little salt and cayenne. Let it boil once, and serve as hot as possible. Time, nearly two hours. Probable cost. Is. 2d. per pint. Sufficient for five pounds of fish. Genoa Cake.—Mix a quarter of a pound of currants, a quarter of a pound of raisins, a quarter of a pound of candied lemon, orange, and citron together—all being finely minced— as much powdered cinnamon as will stand on a thi-eepenny piece, six table-spoonfuls of moist sugar, half a pound of flour, and the finely-chopped rind of a fresh lemon. Beat these ingi-edients for several minutes, with half a pound of clarified butter, four weU-beaten eggs, and two table-spoonfuls of brandy. Put the mixtiu-e in a well-buttered shallow tin, and bake about three-quarters of an houi-. llix the white of an egg with a table-spoonful of powdered loaf sugar, and a tea-spoonful of sheny. Brush the top of the cake with this, and strew some finely-chopped blanched almonds on the surface. Put it in the oven a few minutes longer, to brown the ahnonds slightly. Probable cost. Is. lOd., ex- clusive of the brandy. Sufficient for a tin two and a half inches deep, and four inches square. Genoa Sauce for Fish. — Pound smoothly in a mortar half a clove of garlic, three dessert-spoonfuls of capers, a dessert- spoonful of curry-powder, a tea-spoonful of raw umstard, and six boned anchovies. ^Vhen thoroughly mixed, add four table-spoonfuls of sherry, a small tumblerftil of cold water, and three table-spoonfuls of vinegar. Boil aU together in a saucepan, and mis in half a pint of good melted butter. Time, a quarter of an hour to boil. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for one pint of sauce. Genoese Cake—Melt half a pound of butter by letting it stand near the fire. Mix thoroughly half a pound of flour, half a pound of sugar, a pinch of salt, and the finelv-minced rmd of a Innon. Make Ihem into a pkste vnth a wme-giaaalul of brandy, foui- eggs, wellbeaten, and the clarified butter. Beat for ten niiiiutos with a wooden spoon. Pour the mix- ture into 11 woll-buttored pio-dish, and bake in a moderate oven. AVhon the cake is sullicieutlv cooked (tbia may be ascertained by pushing a skewer into it, and if it comes out dry and clean it is done enough), take it out, and cover it with sugar and blanched almonds {nee Genoa Cake). Time, three-cpiarters of an hour to bake, a quarter of an hour o.xtra to brown the almonds. Sufficient for a pudding-dish two inches deep and five inches square. Probable i^ost. Is. Gd., exclusive of the brandy. Genoese Sauoe for Pish.—Make half I i)int of good brown sauce, thickened with a iLtle floui' and butter. Put it into a sauceimn, u id stir into it a table-spoonful of finely-minced p;irsley, a table-spoonful of port, twenty drops of the essence of anchovies, a dessert-spoonful of walnut ketchup, and as much pounded mace as wiU stand on a thi-eepenny piece. Boil for five or six minutes, stirring aU the time, and serve in a tureen. Time, twenty minutes. Probable cost, exclusive of the port, 6d. for this quantity. Sufficient for rather more than half a pint of sauce. Genoises de Nouilles (sometimes called Genoises a la Heine).—Beat thoroughly the yolks of four eggs, and mix with them as much dried flour as will make a thick batter. Divide this into four parts, and roll each out as thin as possible. By the time all are rolled, the first one will be sufficiently dry to be cut into small strips, as thin as twine. Spread them on writing paper, and place them before the fire to dry. Drop them into a pint and a half of boil- ing milk, with six ounces of butter, six ounces of sugar, a pinch of salt, aud the finely-grated rind of a large lemon. Simmer gently for thirty-five minutes, when the mixture should be a thick batter. It must be well stirred, par- ticularly at first, to prevent it forming into lumps. Pour it out, and, as it cools, add the yolks of six eggs, well beaten. Butter a baking- tin, and pour the paste smoothly and evenly over it, making it about a quarter of an inch in thickness. Bake in a moderate oven until lightly browned. When it is sufficiently cooked, divide it into two parts, spread a little jam over one half, turn the other half upon it, stamp out in fancy shapes with a cutter, and pile the genoises in a dish. This mixture is very good baked in tartlet tins, and eaten while hot. It does not improve with keeping. Time, twenty minutes to bake. Probable cost, 2s. for this quantity. George Pudding. See Geneva Pudding (sometimes called George Pudding). George the Fourth's Punch.—Take a quarter of a pound of sugar in large limips, and rub them upon one lemon and two SevUle oranges, till all the yellow is rubbed off. Put them into a large punch bowl, with the juice and pulp of the oranges and lemon, leave the sugar to soak a little while, then mix it thoroughly with the juice, and a cupful of boiling water, and stir until nearly cold. Add half a pint of pine-apple syrup, one pint of strong green tea, one largo glass of maraschino, two table-spoonfuls of arrack, three table- spoonfuls of Jamaica rum, one pint of pale brandy, and one bottle of champagiic. Straiji, and serve. A little more sugar may bo required' but this will depend on the acidity of the fruil! Time, one hour to prepare. Huflicient for throe quarts of puncli. German Asparagus Soup.—Make two quarts of good white soup, either from bones or fresh meat {see Stock). Season it with salt aud pepper, and thicken with a little flour, mixed in milk till it is of the consistence of cream. Cut the green part of one hundred heads of asparagus into pieces, three-quarters of an inch long, put them into the soup, and boil mitil they are tender, but they must not be over- cooked. If it is desired that the soup should be a little richer, add the yolks of three eggs, mixed with a little milk. The soup must be drawn from the fire a minute or two before the eggs are put in, and it must not boil after they are added. Time, one hour, exclusive of the stock. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Probable cost, 9d. per quart, allowing 4d. per quart for stock made from bones, and a little fresh meat. German Biscuits.—Whisk two eggs thoroughly, and stir into them half a poimd of sifted loaf sugar. Beat them for twenty minutes, then add the peel of a small lemon, grated, two dessert-spoonfuls of cream, and, gradusilly, haK a pound of fine flour. Mix all well together, roU the pastry out very thin, stamp it, with an ordinary pastry-cutter, into different shapes, and bake in buttered tins, m a quick oven, till Hghtly coloured, which will be in about seven or eight minutes. Probable cost, 6d. German Broth, or Winter Hotch- potch.—Boil a neck of mutton, weighing about three pounds, in as much water as will cover it, with one pound of dried green peas, which have been soaked in cold water for some hours, one pint and a half of carrots and turnips cut into slices, and a halfpenny-worth of bruised celery-seed, tied in a piece of muslin. Boil gently for one hour and a half. Add one poimd of mutton chops, cut from the best end of the neck, a dessert-spoonful of salt, and a tea- spoonful of pepper. Boil half an hour longer, and serve. Probable cost, 48. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. German Cakes.—Beat three-quarters of a pound of butter to a cream. Mix with it one pound and a half of sugar, four eggs — well beaten—two pounds of fine flour, half a nut- meg grated, one poimd of dried and picked ciu-- rants, and half a wine-glassful of rose-water. When all these ingredients are well-blended, roll the dough in sheets about the eighth of an inch in thickness, stamp them in rounds with the top of a tea-cup, and bake in a quick oven. Time, to bake ten or fifteen minutes. Probable cost. Is. lOd. German Cream.—This cream should be made in the evening of the day before it is wanted. Put half a pint of cream into a sauce- pan, with two table-spoonfuls of sugar and the thiidy-cut rind of half a lemon. Let it standGEB ( 249 ) GEB. near tho fire for half aa hour, to draw out the fluvom- of the lemon, then bring it quickly to a boil, sti-ain it, let it gl■o^v cold, and add the jmce of the lemon, with three fciblo-spooniuls of brandy. Poui- tho cream qiuckly backwards and forwards from one jug to another, from a good height, for twenty minutes, then put it into the dish in which it is to be served. Pi^bable cost, lOd., exclusive of the brandy, bufficient for neaily thi-ee-quarters of a pint of cream. German Croustades—Cut some stale crumb of bread orroU into slices three-quarters of an inch thick, and stamp them in rounds about three inches-in diameter. Pour a little clarified butter over the rounds, and let them soak in it until soft- Cut out of the centre of each a smaller cii'cle, about one inch and a half in diameter, and be careful to leave the outer ring unbroken. Fry the croustades in hot butter, untU lightly browned; fill them with a nicely-flavoured mince, made of the re- mains of cold meat or poultry ; cover this with finely-grated bread-crumbs, fried in butter {see Crumbs, Fried), and brown them as quickly as possible with a salamander. Time, five or sis minutes to fry. Probable cost, 3d. per dozen, exclusive of the mince. German Dumplings, or Dampfnu- deln.—J^Iix two table-spoonfuls of fresh yeast, or one ounce of Gei-man yeast, with a cupful of lukewarm nulk. Add one table-spoonful of sifted sugar, two eggs, well beaten, and a qua,rter of a pound of butter, melted, but not oiled. When these ingredients are well-mixed, add one •pound of flour, and beat with a wooden spoon until the mixture is smooth and light, and drops from the spoon. Cover the bowl which con- tains it with a cloth, and put it in a warm place for half an hour or more, to rise. Turn it out on a well-floured pastry-board, divide it into small balls about the size of an egg, and let them i-ise a few minutes longer. Butter the bottom of a shallow tin rather thickly. Strew a little powdered sugar over it, and put in milk an inch deep. Let this boil. Place the dumplings in the pan as gently as possible, or roll them in ofE an egg-sUce, and leave a little distance between each. Put on the cover, place the pan in the oven, and bake until the milk is boiled away, and tho dumplings have acquired a nice brown crust. Put them on a hot dish, and send stewed fruit, sweet sauce, or custard to table with them. They may be put into the saucepan with the milk cold, and placed by the side of the fire until they have risen to double their original size, then be put into the oven to brown. Time, three-quarters of an hour for the dumplings to bro^vn; or a quarter of an hour for them to rise, and ten minutes to bake. Probable cost, lOd. for this quantity. Sufficient for one dozen dumplings. German Fritters, or Brioche Frit- ters.—Take as much brioche paste {see Brioche Paste) as maybe required. Roll it out till it is a quarter of an inch in thickness. Stamp it into small rounds with the top of a wine glass, put a small piece of jam on half of these, moisten the edges, and cover each one with a similar round to that on which the jam is laid. Press the two pieces of paste securely together, lay the wine-glass or cutter once more over them, to trim them evenly; then put the fritters gently and carefully into a pun of hot fat, and fry them until lightly browned. When done, drain them from the fat, and serve as hot as possible. They should be piled on a hot napkin, witli a little sifted sugar and powdered cinnamon strewn over them. Brioche paste is even better served thus than in the ordinary way. German Fritters (another sort).— Take seven or eight large sound baking apples, pare them, and scoop out the core without breaking the apples. Cut them into round slices about a quarter of an inch in thickness, and simmer them in a saucepan, with a cupful of brandy, the thin lind of a lemon, and a table-spoonful of sugar, till they are tender, but unbroken. Drain them, dip them into a little flour, and fry them in hot fat till they are lightly browned. Put them on a hot dish, and strain a little finely- sifted sugar over them. Time, altogether, half an horn-. Probable cost, lOd., exclusive of the brandy. Sufficient for five or six persons. German Frying Batter.—Thoroughly mix six ounces of flour with one ' ounce of melted, but not oiled, butter, the yolk of an egg, and two table-spoonfuls of water. Add a pinch of salt, and, very gradually, a quarter of a pint of mild ale. Beat the ingredieiits with a wooden spoon till they are smoothly blended. This batter is better for being maao two or three hours before it is wanted. Just before using, add the white of an egg, beaten to a solid froth. Time, twenty minutes to pre- pare. Probable cost, 3d. for this quantity. Sufficient for about one and a half or two pounds of meat or vegetables. German Konglauffe.—Work ten ounces of fresh butter to a cream. Mix with it a quarter of a pomd of loaf sugar, which has been well-rubbed on a large lemon, and after- wards pounded, half a tea-spoonful of salt, half a nutmeg, grated, four ounces of fine floui-, and two eggs, weU. beaten. Work these ingredients together for a few minutes, then add thi-ee- quarters of a pound more flour, two whole eggs, and the yolks of four. These should be put in gradually. Dissolve three-quarters of an ounce of German yeast in a small tea-cupful of luke- warm milk. Work this in with the rest. Butter a quart moidd. Blanch and slice four oimces of sweet almonds, put them in neat layers round the inside of the mould, pour in the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven. As soon as the konglauffe is sufficiently baked, turn it out, strew a little powdered cinnamon over it, and return it to the oven for three or four minutes. Time to bake, about an hour and a half. Pro- bable cost, 2s. 2d. Sufficient for a quart mould. German Onion Beef.—Put four or five pounds of the thin end of the flank of beef into a stewpan, with sufficient water to cover it, one dessert-spoonful of salt and a little muslin bag containing one dozen bruised cloves, two dozen peppercorns, one bay-leaf, and the thin rind of a large lemon. Simmer gently for forty minutes. Add eight large onions, cut into slices, andGEB GEB ( 260 ) simmer agiiin till they are tender. Remove the scum uiroi'uUy as it rises. Take out the muslin ba^?, anil thicken the gravy with one table-spoon- ful of Hour, mixed with two of cold water. Serve on a hot dish, and place the meat in the same dish with the onions, &c. Time, an hour and a quarter. Probable cost, beef, 'Jd. per lb. Suf- ticiont for six or eight persons. German Paste.—Mix one pound of fine flour with two ounces of pounded sugar, a pinch of salt, and the grated rind of half a lemon. Kub in half a pound of butter, and make it into a smooth paste with the yolks of two eggs beaten with a table-spoonful of water. IloU the paste out in thin sheets, and fold it over two or throe times. If intended for fruit pies or tarts, the sugar is better omitted. Time, twenty minutes to pre- pjire. Probable cost, lOd. for this quantity. German Pudding, Baked. — Put a pint of new milk into a saucepan, with the thinly- j peeled rind of a large lemon. Let it stand by : the side of the fire, to draw out the flavour of I ^he lemon, and, when it is warm, stir into it till melted a quarter of a pound of fresh butter. Let it get nearly cold. Mix two ounces of flour rery smoothly with a little cold milk, and mix it gradually with the milk and bxitter. Sweeten the mixture with two table-spoonfuls of sugar, and put in the yolks of four, and the whites of two, eggs, well-beaten. Three-parts fill some well-buttered cups with the mixture ; bake till firm. Put two well-beaten eggs, two glasses ot sherry, and four lumps of sugar into an enamelled saucepan. Beat over the fire to a froth, pour round the puddings, and serve immediately. Time, to bake half an hour. Probable cost. Is., exclusive of the wine. Suf- ficient for eight or nine cups. Grerman Pudding, Boiled—Put the thin rind of a large lemon into half a pint of milk. Let the milk stand for half an hour, then boil, and pour it over half a pound of stale crumbs of bread, finely grated. When cool, beat it with a fork, take out the lemon-rind, and add three ounces of butter, thi-ee ounces of sugar, and four eggs, well beaten. Butter a plain round mould rather thickly, put in a layer of the soaked bread-crumbs, &c., then a layer of either good jam or marmalade, and repeat until the mould is full. Put soaked bread at the top. Cover with buttered paper, put the mould in a pan, and boil or steam the pudding. Serve with German pudding sauce [see German Pudding Sauce). Time, to boil or steam an hour and a \ half. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Sufiicient for five or six persons. German Pudding, Brown Bread.— Collect as many pieces of stale brown bread as will make half a pound of crumbs, and rub them through a sieve, then soak for half an hour in a wine-glassful of sherry or boiling milk, and mix with it two ounces of fresh butter, three table- spoonfuls of sifted sugar, two ounces of sweet almonds, blanched and pounded, a tea-spoonful of finely-chopped lemon-rind, half a tea-spoonful of powdered cinnamon, two table-spoonfuls of picked raisins, the same of currants, and the well- beaten yolks of six eggs. When these ingre- dients are thoroughly blended, bixtter a moiild, add to the above-mentioned ingredients th«> whites of the eggs, beaten to a firm froth, poui the mixture into the mould, and boil or stearn the pudding. When sufficiently cooked, turn it out, and servo with wine or Gennan puddinf.- sauce {H e Gernuin Pudding Sauce). Time tr, boil, an hour and a half. Probable cost. Is. 2d., exclusive of the wine and sauce. Sufficient far five or six persons. German Pudding, Rice (excellent}.— Stew a quailcr of a pound of the Ijt-st CaroliuiJ. rice in a pint of milk, till it is very tender and diy; let it cool, then mix with it a quai-ter of a pound of fresh butter, two ounces of sweet almonds, blanched and pounded, three tabb-- spoonfuls of sifted loaf sugar, three ounces ol stoned raisins, half a tea-spoonful of powdered cinnamon, and the yolks of three eggs. Add each ingredient separately, and mix thoroughly. Butter a mould, and, just before pouring th(; mixture in, add the whites of the eggs, beaten to a solid froth. Cover with buttered paper, ti<; in a cloth, and boil. Turn out, and serve with Geiman jjudding sauce {see German Pudding Sauce). Boil an hour and a half. Probable cost. Is. 2d. Sufficient for five or six persons. German Pudding Sauce.—Boil half a pint of light wine with thi-ee large limips of sugar. When quite hot, pour the wine over the yolks of two eggs, and beat thoroughly over a slow fire, till it froths and looks like custard. The sauce must on no account boil, or it will curdle. Just before serving, add the juice of a lemon. Time, a few minutes to prepare. Pro- bable cost, 3d., exclusive of the wine. Sufficient for nearly three-quarters of a pint of sauce. This is a very good sauce for a boiled pudding. German Puffs.—Put a quarter of a pint of new milk into a saucepan, with two ounces of fresh butter. When it boils, mix smoothly with, it two table-spoonfuls of flour, a pinch of salt, half a small nutmeg, grated, and one heaped table-spoonful of sugar. When cool, add two well-beaten eggs. Butter some cups, rather more than half fill them with the mixture, and bake in a good oven. Serve as hot as possible, with wine or sweet sauce. Time, twenty minutes to bake. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for five cups. Grerman Puffs, Almond.—Blanch and pound one ounce of sweet, and two of bitter almonds, with a little orange-flower or rose- water; add four table-spoonfuls of new milk, and a dessert-spoonful of flour, smoothly mixed with another table-spoonful of milk, the yolks of three and the whites of two eggs, a tiny pinch of salt, and a table-spoonful of sugar. Beat thoroughly. Butter some cups, rather more than half fill them, and bake in a quick oven. Serve as hot as possible, ■with wine or .sweet sauce. Time to bake, a quaiier of an hour. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for four cups. German Salad.—Take any kind of cold boiled vegetable, such as cabbage, cauliflower, Brussels sprouts, potatoes, sea-kale, or a little of three or four kinds. Cut them into smaU pieces, and, if the flavour is liked, add chopped onion, or chopped raw apple. Season witt( 261 ) GEB pepper and salt, and add two table-spoonfula of vinegar, and foui- of oil, to every two pounds of vegetables. Serve in a siilad-bowl, and garnish with sUe«d beetroot and parsley. Time, a quarter of an hour to prepare. Grerman Sauce (for brawn, cold pickled pork, or boar's head).—Dissolve a quarter of a pound of red cun-ant jelly, and mix with it the juice, and thinly-shred rind of a large orange, a heaped table-spoonful of scraped horse- radish, a table-spoonful of finely-sifted sugar, a dessert-spoonful of mixed mustard, two table- spoonfids of vinegar, and four of salad-oil. Put the sauce in a cool place till wanted, and send to table in a tureen. Time, twenty minutes to prepare. Probable cost, 9d. Suffi- cient for half a pint of sauce. Gterman Soup.—Fry half an ounce of cummin-seed in a little hot butter, for a few minutes; keep moving them about all the time. Pour upon them three pints of good, nicely- flavoured chicken-broth, and simmer gently for nearly an hour. Season with pepper and salt, put some toasted sippets in the tureen, and strain the soup over them. The above quan- tities are sufficient for three pints of soup. German Toast.—Take the remains of cold stew, or fricassee. Mince it finely, and mix with a pint of it, including the gravy, two weU-beaten eggs, one table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and one onion, finely minced. Stir the mixture over a slow fire until it is thick, and one- third of it boiled away. Let it get quite cold. Spread it on pieces of toast, brush it over with beaten egg, strew bread-crumbs on the top, and bake in a moderate oven. Just before serving, squeeze a little lemon-juice over the toast. Time to bake, a quarter of an hour, or until the toast is thoroughly heated through. German Yeast.—German yeast is now very generally used, owing to the difficulty of obfciining brewer's yeast without its being so bitter as to spoil the bread. It is very excellent when it can be obtained fresh and sweet, but care should be taken that is so, as it quickly deteriorates in quality; and is then exceedingly unwholesome. It should be dissolved very gradually, with a little warm water, or warm milk and water, and stirred until it is perfectly smooth and creamy. Probable cost, Id. per ounce. Sufficient, one ounce for a quaiiem, half a gallon, or three pounds and a half of flour. German Yeast Bread.—Put some flour (the quantity to be regulated by the size of the family) into a bowl. To one quartern allow one tea-spoonful of salt, one ounce of German yeast, and one quart of new milk. If this cannot be procured, milk and water, or water only, may be used; but bread is always nicer when made with milk. Dissolve the yeast smoothly and gradually with a little lukewarm liquid; make a hole in the middle of the flour, and put it in; mix it with sufficient flour to make a batter; strew a little flour over the top, and leave the leaven to rise. When it is swollen and cracked, the bread should be kneaded at once, and .should be done thoroughly, §8 on this its quality vory much dcijonds.' Tt should be quite firm and smooth. Leave it in the bowl, make one or two slight gashes with a knife on the surface, cover it with a cloth, and, if it be winter time, leave it near the fire to rise, but not sufficiently neai' to make it hot. In about an hour it will have lisen consider- ably, and be ready for making into loaves of any size that may be desired. Let them rise a minute or two after being put into the tins, and prick them lightly in one or two places with a fork, to let the'steam escape. Bake in a good oven. Time to bake, about two houra for a quartern loaf. It is to be added that if a larger quantitj' of flour is used, so that all the dough cannot be baked at once, that which is left in the bowl must be kept in a moderate temperature, neither very warm nor very cold. Gherkins. — Gherkins are young cu- cumbers, and are only used for pickling. They should be gathered on a dry day, and those in one bottle should be, as nearly as possible, uniform in size. They are not leally good for much in flavour until they are about three and a half inches long, and three-quarters of an inch in diameter. They may be had in July and August, and the best time for pick- ling them is about the end of August, or the beginning of September. Like other pickles, their excellence depends, in a great measui-e, on their being kept covered with vinegar. A mixtuie of French beans and gherkins makes a nice pickle. Gherkins, Pickled.- Put the gherkins into a large stone jar, and cover them with brine strong enough to caiTy an egg. Place the cover on the jar, and leave it for two or three days, until the gherkins begin to turn yellow; then drain them, and pom* boiling vinegar over them. Put bay-leaves on the top, keep the jar in a warm place, and heat the vinegar afresh everj' day, till the gherkins turn as gi-een as you wish. Boil fresh Ainegar, and with it one large blade of mace, two ounces of whole pepper, four bay-leaves, and half a dozen small silver onions to each quart. Put the gherkins into wide-mouthed bottles, pour the Annegar over them, first allowing it to cool a little, or it wiU crack the bottles, and cork securely when cold. Time, from a week to a fortnight. Probable cost, Is. per pint bottle. If the vinegar be boiled in a copper saucepan, it will make the gherkins a beautiful colour, but poisonous. Gherkins, Pickled (French method).— Throw the gherkins into a saucepan of boiling water, let them boil one minute, then take them out, and throw them at once into plenty of cold water; change the water once or twice, and when the gherkins are quite cold, spread them on sieves to dry. Put them into a large bowl, and pour over them as much boiling vinegar as will completely cover them. Let them stand in this for twenty-four hours, and repeat the process for three days. The last time, boil in the vinegar one oimce of salt, half an ounce of whole pepper, a few sprigs of tan-agon, a large blade of mace, and four bay-leaves, with every quart of liquid. Put the gherkins into the boiling vinegar, let them remain fur two minutos, thon plflcc them in wide-mouthed( 252 ) GIB GIB bottles, and poiir the vinegar over thorn. Cork tho bottlos aocuroly, and put away for uho. Moro viiiDgar niiiat l)o addod whoii ruquirod. Probable coat, la. por pint buttle. Giblet Pie.—Take one act of gooao gib- lots. If nut already cleaned, waali thoni in warm water aovoral timoa. Take tho gall h-oiu tho liver, and cut it and the heart into two pieces. Pick tho head well, aoak it in hot water, and chop olf tho beak. Skin tho foot and the gizzard, and cut tho fvjot with tho piniona into two pieces, the nock and tho gizzard into four each. Put all into a saucepan with cold water, lot the contents juat boil, then take thoni out, drain them, throw away the water, and put them, with froah water, again into tho pan. Add a tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of whole pepper, a sprig of parsley, a sprig of thyme, and two onions. Simmer gently until done enough. Pom- tlie giblots into a bowl, and lot them got cold. Unless this is uone the flavour of the giblets will spoil the pie-crust. Lay one pound of steak, cut into pieces about an inch and a half square, at the bottom of the pie-dish. If beef-steak is used, it must be stewed in a separate saucepan untU nearly tender before being put into tho pie. With rump-steak this is not necessary. Put the cold giblets among the pieces of steak. Strain as much of the liquid as will not quite cover the meat in the pie, line the edge with a good light crust, place a cover over the whole, brush it with yoDc of egg, and ornament it with pastry leaves. Bake in a good oven. Just before serving, make a slight iucision in the ciTist, and pour in two table-spoonfuls of boiling cream ; or, thicken the gravy in which the giblets were stewed with a little floiar and butter, or flour mixed with water; brown it, and add to it a glass of port wine. Pour part of this into the pie, and add the rest just before serving. A giblet pie should never be eaten cold. Time, from one to two hours to stew the giblets—if the goose is young, one hour will be sufficient—when the gizzard ia tender the giblets are done enough; an hour and a half to stew beef-steak; one hour to bake the pie. Probable cost, 2s. 2d. Sufficient for haK a dozen persons. Giblet Pie (another way).—Prepare and stew the giblets as in the last recipe. Let them get cold, and put them into a pie-dish, with a chicken, cut into neat joints, and sea- soned with pepper, salt, and poimded mace. Cover the whole with a good light crust, and bake in a good oven. Before sending the pie to table, mix a small cupful of tho gravy in which the giblets were stewed with two table-spoon- fuls of mushroom ketchup and a wine-glassful of sherry, and pour it hot into the dish. Time, one hour to bake. Probable cost, 3s. 8d. Suf- ficient for half a dozen persons. Giblet Soup.—Take two sets of goose giblots. Prepare them in tho same way as for giblet pie {nee Giblet Pie), cutting the gizzard into small pieces about half an inch square, or it will not bo tender imtil tho rest is in rags, and put all into a stewpan with a slice of loan ham cut into dice, and a small piece ot butter. Fry the giblets a few miautes; then add to them two quarts of good stock, an onion Ht,uck with five or six cloves, two or thioe spri.'s oi marjoram, thyuio, or winter savouiy, a tea- spoonful of siiit, lialf a tea-spoonful of pepper, aiKl halt a drachm of bruised celery-seeds tied in a iiiusUn bag. Siminor gently for two hours then take out the giblots, and put thoin into a tureen. Strain tho soup, and thicken it witli one ounce of butter, mixed smoothly over the fire with a tablo-spoonful of flour, until slightly browned, but not burned, and added gradually to the liquid. Lot it boil for a quarter of an hour, then return tho giljlets to it for a few niinutes, to got hot, and serve with toasted sippets. Giblet soup is very good for ordiniiry domestic use. Tho giblots should be tender, but not too much boiled. Before putting them into the tureen they should all be cut into mouthfuls. The giblets of the cygnet make the best soup, but they are not often to be had. Sufficient for four or five persons. Giblet Soup, Duck's.—Very good soup may be made of the giblets of ducks. Tho same directions may be followed as we have given for goose giblets, but as ducks are so much smaller, four sets of these must be used, where two sets only of goose giblets would be necessarj'. Giblet Soup, German.—Put one quart of haricot beans into cold water to soak the day before the soup is wanted, then drain them, boil them untU quite tender, and press half of them through a coarse sieve. Stew the giblets, as in tho last recipe but one, with two quarts of stock, and seasoning. When the giblets are tender, cut them into small pieces, strain the soup, and mix it smoothly with the beans, both mashed and whole; add the giblets, let them get hot once more, and serve. The soup should be as thick as cream. A variation may be made by boUing very small potatoes instead of beans in the soup until tender, but unbroken. Time, two hours and a half to prepare the soup. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Probable cost, beans, 4d. or 6d. per quart; giblets, 6d. per set. Giblets, To Stew.—Prepare one set of goose giblets in the same way as for a. pie. Cut them into small, convenient-sized pieces, and put them into a saucepan, with a sprig of marjoram, the same of thyme, two sprigs of parsley, a Spanish onion, stuck with three cloves, a tea-spoonful of pepper, a tea-spoonful and a half of salt, a blade of mace, and a grain of cayenne. Rub tho saucepan once with garlic, and add one pint and a half of stock. Simmer gently imtil all are tender, and as the pieces of meat become so, remove them until the rest are sufficiently cooked. The liver and pinions will be done enough first, and the gizzard last. When all the pieces of meat are taken out, thicken the gravy with a little flour and butter, heat the giblets, and serve as hot as possible. A few mushrooms, or a table-spoonful of ketchup, and a dessert-spoonful of lemon- juice, is an improvement. Time, frofti an hour and a half to two hours, according to the ago of the goose. Probable cost, giblets, from 6d. to Is. per set. Sufficient for four or five persons. Giblets, To Stew (another way).—Pre- pare the giblets as before, and simmer them inGIN ( 253 ) GIB just as much water as will cover them. Melt tluee ounces of buttor in a saucepan ; put with thorn two large Spanish onions, chopped small. Cover the pan, and let thom remain until tender. Add to them gradually the liquid in which the giblets have been stewed, and season Hither highly with salt and cayenne. Mix a table-spoonful of flour smoothly vnth. a little water, and add it to the onion sauce. Put in the giblets, and let aU boil together for twenty minutes. Time, two hours. Probable cost, giblets, 6d. to Is. per set. Sufficient for four or Ave persons. Giblets with Apples (a German recipe).—Prepare the giblets as before. Take eight large apples, peel, core, and quarter them, and let them boil until they are tender, but imbroken, with two table-spoonfuls of sugar, four table-spoonfuls of water, and the thinly-peeled rind of a lemon. Put a piece of butter, about the size of an egg, into a sauce- pan, mix with it, very smoothly, a table-spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire untU slightly browned. Add three table-spoonfuls of the apple-juice, and three table-spoonfuls of the liquid in which the giblets were stewed. Let these boil, then add them to the rest of the giblet gravy. Wash two table-spoonfuls of grocer's currants, and strew them over the giblets. Heat all together, colour rather darkly with a few drops of browning [see Browning), and arrange on a hot dish, with the giblets in the centre, the pieces of apple round, and the gravy, with the currants, poured over all. Time, about two hours. Probable cost, giblets, 6d. to Is. per set; apples, 8d. per dozen. Suffi- cient for four or five persons. Giblets ■with Pears (a German recipe). —Put four pork chops into a saucepan, lay upon them a set of goose giblets, prepared as for Giblet Pie, and just cover them with cold water or stock. Season them with pepper and salt, and let them simmer gently until done. Drain them, and put the gravy into another saucepan, with one dozen of stewing, pears, peeled and quartered, one dozen of cloves, and two table-spoonfuls of brown sugar. Let the pears stew until they are tender, but unbroken. Colour rather darkly with a few drops of brown- ing, put in the meat until thoroughly heated, and serve with toasted sippets round the dish. Time, from two hours and a half to three hours. Probable cost, 28. 2d. Sufficient for six persons. Giblets with Turnips (a German re- cipe).—Prepare and simmer the giblets as before. When about half-done, put with them three good-sized turnips, cut into round slices, half an inch in thickness. Let them remain until they are quite tender, but unbroken. Thicken the gravy with a Httle flour, add a few drops of browning, and serve as hot as possible. Time, an hour and a half to two hours. Probable cost. Is. Sufficient for four or five persons. Gin Punch.—Peel verj- thinly the rind of a large lemon, and put it, with a table-spoonful of the juice, in a bowl. Pour over it two table- Bpoonfuls of pounded loaf sugar, and one pint of fresh spring water. Let it stand for hiilf an hom\ TIk n add hnlf a pint of gin, a wine- glassful of maraschino, and two table-spoonfuls of pounded ice. Just before serving, add two bottles of soda-water. Time, about three- quarters of an hour to prepare. Sufficient for two quarts of punch. Gin Sling (an Amarican drink). — Put half a small lemon, cut into thin slices, into a large tumbler, with a dessert-spoonful of sifted loaf sugar. Fill the glass with ice, finely pounded, and add a wine-glassful of the best gin. Drink through a reed. Ginger.—This well-known spice is the creeping root of a tropical plant. Most of that used in Britain is imported from the East and West Indies. It is of use, not only in domestic economy, as a condiment, but in medicine, as a stimulant and carminative. As a spice, ginger is best suited for persons of relaxed habit. Two kinds are met with, the dark-coated and the pale-peeled. Of these, the latter is the best. Ginger and Bread Pudding.—Pour half a pint of boiling milk over half a pint of finely-grated bread-crumbs, and let the latter soak for an hour. Then ^x with them three table-spoonfuls of finely-sifted sugar, three well- beaten eggs, a dessert-spoonful of ginger sjTup, and four ounces of preserved ginger, cut into small pieces. Beat all thoroughly with a fork, pour into a well-oiled mould, steam, and, when done, turn out with care. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for four persons. Time, one hour and a half to steam. Ginger Beer. — Put the thinly-peeled rind of four iamons into a-large earthen pan with the strained juice, two ounces of bruised ginger, two and a half pounds of loaf sugar, and half an ounce of cream of tartar. Poiir over these ingredients two and a half gallons of boiUng water, and, when lukewarm, add two table-spoonfuls of fresh brewer's yeast. Stir the Uquid, and leave it to ferment until the next day. Skim the yeast from tlie top, pour I the beer carefully fi-om the sediment, and bottle for use. The corks should be pei-fectly sound, put into boiling water just before being used, and then securely wired down. The ginger-beer will be leady for use in two days. Probable cost. Is. lOd. Sufficient for three dozen and a half ginger-beer bottles. Ginger Biscuits.- Pub four ounces of fresh butter into half a pound of flour, and add three table-spoonfuls of sugar, half an ounce of ground ginger, and one egg beaten up with a little milk to a smooth paste. Make up into small round biscuits, and bake on buttered paper for eight or ten minutes ; leave a little distance between each cake. Probable cost, 8d. for this quantity. Sufficient for about two dozen biscuits. Gingerbread (a la Soyer).—Mix half a pint of treacle and about one ounce of powdered ginger (more or less, according to taste) MTith one pound of flour. Stir well together, to form a stiff dough, roll it out thin, cut it into small rounds with a pastry-cutter, and bake on a buttered tin, in a good oven for five or six minutes till crisp. A small lump of butter may be rubbed in if desired. Probable cost, G(l. por pound. Sufficient for two dozenGUN ( ^64 ) GIN cakos. Keep closely covered in a tin box. These cakes are good for assisting digestion. Gingerbread, Almond. — Mix one ounce of ground gingur witli a quarter of a pound of ground rice, and three-quarters of a pound of best Horn-. Put into a jar one pound of treacle, half a pound of sugar, half a i)ound of fresh butter, the thinly-poelod rind of two lemons, cut into thin slices, and six ounces of swfot almonds, with four or five bitter ones, pounded in a mortar, with a few drops of water, to prevent oiling. Place the jar neai' the fire, and when the butter is melted, pour all into the flour. Beat till quite Ught, and bake in a quick oven, on a buttered tin for thirty minutes, if made in small cakes. Pro- bable cost, Is. 8d. for this quantity. Gingerbread, American.—Mix well together a pound of sifted sugar, two ounces of ground ginger, half a nutmeg, and a little grated lemon-rind, three pounds and a half of floui-, a pound of chopped raisins, and a pound of cunants, an ounce of carbonate of soda, and two ounces of chopped candied peel. Wai-m a pound of treacle; stir into it three- quarters of a pound of butter, and six eggs. Beat the whole, until thoroughly mixed, with a cupful of milk. Pour it in a well-oiled dish, or shallow tin, and bake in a slow oven for two hours. Probable cost. Is. 6d. per pound. Gingerbread, Cocoa-nut.—Proceed in the same way as dii-ccted for Almond Ginger- bread {see Gingerbread, Almond), substituting rasped cocoa-nut for pounded almonds. Gingerbread, Fanny's.—Put a quarter of a pound of butter into a jar with half a pound of treacle, and place the jar near the fire till the butter is melted. Jtlix well, adding one table-spoonful of oatmeal, half an ounce of sifted ginger, the rind of a lemon, cut into thin slices, and as much flour as ^vill make a stiff firm batter. Pour into a well-buttered mould, and bake in a good oven. Time, from thirty to forty minutes. Probable cost, 8d. Sufl5.cient for a pint mould. Gingerbread Fingers, American.— Warm half a pound of best treacle. Stir into it a piece of butter the size of an egg, and four table-spoonfuls of sifted sugar. Take a little powdered allspice, a heaped tea-spoonful of ground ginger, the rind of a lemon chopped fine, and a pound of the best flour. Mix all the dry ingredients together, and stir the treacle and butter into them. Last of all, dissolve an ounce of carbonate of soda in a table-spoonful of wai-m cream, and put it with the rest. Work all well together for some time. Roll the mixture out to the thickness of half an inch. Di\'ide it into " fingers," and put at once on well-oiled tins, in a moderate oven. Put the fingers in a dry place, not exposed to the air, and thoy -will be the better for a month's keeping. Time to bake, an hour or more. Probable cost, Is. 6d. per pound. Gingerbread, Flemish. — Warm one pound of treacle in a bowl before the fire, and stir into it six ounces of butter. When dis- solved, beat in as much flour, with two table- spionfuN nf oatmeal and half an ounce of pow- liert^d ginger, as will form .a stiff firm batter. Beat it till smooth, and add two ounces of can- died lemon sliced as thin as possible. Butter some moulds, and bake in a quick oven for nearly an hour. Probable cost. Is. 2d. , GiJigerbread, French Gateau d Epice). Gingerbread, German. — Melt one pound of honey in a saucepan ; and when it ifl quite hot, mix with it six ounces of moist sugar, an ounce of powdered cinnamon, two ounces of candied lemon, cut into thin slices, four ounces of sweet almonds, blanched and sliced, and sufficient flour to make it into a stiff paste. Roll the paste out two or three times, so as to have it quite smooth and stifl:; make it into cakes of any shape or size, about a quarter of an inch in thickness, and bake on buttered tins in a moderate oven for half an hour or more. Probable cost, is. 8d. for this quantity. Gingerbread, Honeycomb.—Put four ounces of fresh butter into a jar, near the fire, with half a pound of treacle, and half a poimd of moist sugar. Mix half a pound of flour with one table-spoonful of ground ginger, the finely-chopped rind and juice of half a large lemon, and one tea-spoonful of powdered cinnamon. When the butter is melted, mix it -with the treacle, &c., into the flour, and beat all together for some minutes. Spread the mix- ture very thinly upon buttered baking-tins, and bake in a moderate oven. Watch it par- ticularly, and as soon as the gingerbreaxl is done enough, take it out, cut it into squares, and curl each square round the finger. Keep closely covered in a tin box. This ginger- bread will keep three or four weeks, but is best when newly made. Should it lose its crispness, it should be put into the oven for two or three minutes before being used. Time, ten minutes to bake. Probable cost, lOd. for this quantity. Gingerbread, Hunters'.—Beat three ounces of butter to a cream; add one pound and a half of flour, three ounces of moist sugar, one ounce of sifted sugar, one ounce of candied peel, cut into thin strips, two or three drops of essence of lemon, and mix in one pound of treacle, slightly warmed, to make a smooth, firm paste. Roll out on a floured pastry-board, cut it into strips, about three inches long and one broad, and bake on a buttered tin, in a slow oven. Store in a closely-covered tin box. Time to bake, half an hour. Probable cost. Is. Gingerbread, Imperial.—Beat three ounces of butter to a cream. Iklix ^^^th it six ounces of flour, two ounces of sugar, a dessert- spoonful of caraway-seeds, and a dessert-spoon- ful of powdered ginger. Stir three ounces of treacle into half a pint of new milk, make the whole into a paste, and bake on buttered tins in round cakes or fingers. Stick on the cakes a little candied peel, cut into strips. Time, about half an hour to bake. Probable cost, 6d. Gingerbread, Indian (sec Indian Gin- gerl jrean). Gingerbread Leek (excellent).—:Mix thoroughly, one ounce and a half of (finger in one pound and a half of flour: add one pound and a quarior of sugar, and two ounces of candied peel, cT.t vor- fine. MtUt together( i65 ) am GIN half a pound of butter, and a quarter of a pound of the best treacle. Stir these into the flour, &c., jBavour with three di-ops of essence of lemon, or more, if liked, and make the mixture into a smooth, tirm paste, with three eggs, well beaten. Roll out o a floured board, and cut the paste into fingers. Bake in a good oven for ten minutes. Store in a closely-covered tin box. Probable cost, 'is. for this quantity. Gingerbread, Lemon.—Kub the rinds of two largo, or thi-ee small lemons, upon two or three large lumps of sugar, till all the yellow part is taken oft". Beat the sugar to a powder, mix it vfiih a pound of flour, and add half an oxmce of ground ginger, and a quarter of an ounce of cayenne pepper. Put half a pound of butter into a jar near the fii'e, with half a pound of treacle. When the butter is melted, stir into it the strained juice of the lemon, mixed with a glass of brandy. Mix all with the flour, &c., and bake ia roimd cakes, or fin- gers, on buttered tins, in a moderate oven. Time, three-quarters of an hour to bake. Probable cost, Is. 4d. for this quantity. Gingerbread Loaf (good).—Put six oimces of butter into a jar near the fire, with one pound of the best treacle. Let the butter melt, then add two ounces of candied lemon, cut into narrow strij)s, half an ounce of powdered ginger, half an ounce of caraway-seeds, five eggs, well beaten, and as much flour as will make a stift" batter. Beat it well for some minutes, till it is quite smooth and light, put it iuto a well- buttered tin, about two inches deep, and bake in a slow oven three-quarters of an hour. When baked, let the loaf remain a little while in the tin before turning out. Probable cost, Is. 8d. Gingerbread Loaf (another way).—Rub half a pound of fresh butter into two pounds of flour; add a pinch of salt, a table-spoonful of baking-powder, and one ounce of ground ginger. Stir in two pounds of warmed treacle. Bake immediately, in a buttered tin, in a slow oven, for one hour and a half. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for a nine-inch tin. Gingerbread Loaf, Plain.—Put two pounds of treacle into a jar near the fire, with two ounces of butter, a quarter of an ounce of car- bonate of soda, previously dissolved in a very little milk, and strained, and four ounces of moist sugar. Mix an oimce of powdered ginger, and one small nutmeg grated, with about three pounds of flour. When the butter is melted, stir the treacle into the flour, add water to moisten it, and bake in a well-buttered, shallow tin, in a slow oven, for one hour and a half. Probable ^ost. Is. 2d. Gingerbread, Mrs. Fletcher's. (An Edinburgh recipe.)—Mix half a pound of moist sugar, and two oimces of powdered ginger, with one pound of fine flour. Put half a pound of fresh butter, and half a pound of treacle, into a jar near the fire. When the butter is melted, mix it with the flour while warm, and spread the mixture thinly on buttered tins. Mark it in squares before baking, and as soon as the ginger- broad is baked enough, separate it at the marks hf'fore it has time to hanlcn. Time, ten or fift^-ea minutes to bake. Probable cost. la. 2d. i Gingerbread, Mrs. Smith's.—Melt together thi-ee-quarters of a pound of treacle, a quai-ter of a poimd of honey, and half a pouiid of fresh butter. Mix one pound of flour with two ounces of candied lemon, chopped small, one ounce of powdered ginger, and half a tea- spoonful of powdered cinnamon. Beat all well together, and bake in well-buttered, shallow tins, in a moderate oven. Time, about one hour to bake. Probable cost. Is. 3d. Gingerbread Nuts. —It is well to make the paste for these nuts an hour or two before baking them, and put it in a cool place. Rub three ounces of butter into one pound of flour; add the finely-chopped rind and juice of half a lemon, and a dessert- spooiiful of ground ginger. Put a table-spoon- ful of honey into a quarter of a pound of treacle. Let them melt over the fire for a few minutes, stirring them well together, then mix them into the other ingredients. Roll the paste on a floured board to the thickness of a quarter of an inch. Stamp it into small round cakes, and bake on tins in a good oven till crisp. Probable cost, 6d. Gingerbread, Orange. — Chop half a pound of candied orange peel very finely, and mix it with one ounce of ground ginger, one nutmeg, grated, three-quarters of a pound of moist sugar, and two pounds and a quarter of flour. Melt three-quarters of a pound of butter in a poimd and three-quarters of treacle; stir this well into the rest, and let all stand in a cool place for two or three hours. Roll the paste out on a floured board to the thickness of a quarter of an inch, cut it into fingers, and bake on a buttered tin, leaving a Httlo distance between each finger. Beat the yolk of an egg with a little milk, and brush the gingen'bread over with it both before and after putting it into the oven. Time to bake, fifteen minutes. Pro- bable cost, 2s. 6d. for this quantity. Gingerbread Parkin (to be made foi the 5th of November).—Rub half a pound of butter and half a pound of fresh lard into four pounds of oatmeal, or flour and oatmeal mixed. Add half a pound of bro'wn sugar and an ounce of ground ginger. Mix thi-ee pounds and a half of treacle with a cupful of new milk ; stir these into the oatmeal &c., to make a stiff paste, bake in a moderate oven, either in oiled tins or dripping-tins till brightly browned, about twenty minutes if baked in patty-pans, and one hour and a half in large dishes. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Gingerbread, Powder for Making.— Pound thoroughly in a mortar two oimces oi coriander-seed, two ounces of caraway-seed, two ounces of ground ginger, half an ounce of grated nutmeg, half an ounce of cloves, three- quarters of an ounce of fennel-seed, and three- • quarters of an ounce of aniseed. Keep the powder in a bottle, closely corked. To make gingerbread, dissolve two pounds of sugar in a pint of water, and make up into a naste with a quartern of flour and an ounce of the powder. The gingerbread may bo baked either in a mould or in small tins. Time to prepare, Iihit nn hour.( 266 ) GIN GIN Gingerbread Pudding. — Rul) about ono ounco of Luttor or good beef dripping into ono pound of flour; add a loa-spoonful of ground gmger, a hoapod tea-spoonful of baking-powdm-, anil bullii'iont troaclo warmed in a tablo-spoon'- ful of milk to make a liglit, smooth paste. Pour into n buttorod mould, and boil for two lioura.^ Sei-\-e with troaclo aauco. Probable 'jost, 5d. iSulliciiuit for four or five porsons. Suitable for this nursi'ry. ^ Gingerbread Pudding (another way).— Grate six ounces of stale bread very finely. Mix it vdth three ounces of flour and six ounces of finely-shred beef suet. Add a tea-spoonful of powdered ginger, a tea-spoonful of baking- powder, and two or three drops of almond or •> lemon flavoui-ing. Make up into a smooth paste with half a pound of treacle, slightly ■warmed. Pour into a buttered mould, and boil for two hours. Probable cost, 7d. {Sufficient for four persons. , Gingerbread Sugar.—Whisk well two fresh eggs, and add gradually half a pound of sifted loaf sugar, half an ounce of ground ginger, and half a pound of fine flour. A little ■water may be added if the paste is too stiff. Bake in round cakes for fifteen minutes on a buttered tin. Probable cost, 6d. for this quantity. Gingerbread, Thick. — Mix half an ounce of carbonate of soda, perfectly free from lumps, with two pounds of flour ; add six ounces of brown, sugar, two ounces of powdered ginger, and half an ounce of ground caraway- seed. Melt half a pound of fresh butter in two pounds of treacle. Mix this gradually ■with the flour—it must not be hot, or the gingerbread -will be heavy—and add, last of all, three well-beaten eggs. Half fill shallow tins, ■well buttered, -with the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven. Brush the gingerbread over ■with the ;yolk of an egg, mixed -svith a little milk, before it is put into the oven, and again two or three minutes before it is taken out. Time to bake, an hour and a half. Probable cost, 2s. for this quantity. Gingerbread, White. —Rub three ounces of fresh butter into half a pound of flour; add a pinch of salt, four table-spoonfuls of sifted loaf sugar, the fijiely-chopped rind of a small lemon, half a nutmeg, grated, and as much carbonate of soda as -will lie on a sixpence, dis- solved in half a cupful of lukewarm nulk. Mix all together to a smooth, firm batter, roll it out on a floured board, stamp it into rounds with the top of a wine-glass, and bake immediately in a moderate oven. Time to bake, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, 6d. for this quantity. Gingerbread without Butter.—Cut into very thin slices four ounces of candied lemon, orange, and citron. IVIix them with an ounce of ground ginger, half an ounce ; of coriander-seed, and half an ounce of cara- way-seed. Stir these into one poimd of V. treacle, and add as much flour as -will make a smooth paste. Drop from the end of a knife upon oven-tins, and bake in a brisk oven. This gingerbread will keep some time, if kept closely covered in tin boxes. Time, ten or fifteen minutes to bake. Probable cost, la. Ginger Candy,—I^Liko a thin bvtud. bv boilmg one pound of refined loaf sugar with a cupful of water. Flavour it with a tea-spoonful of powdered ginger-root, and colour witli a little saftron. As the syrup boils, keep moving it against the side of the pan, jmd when it turns wliite it is done enough. Pour it out as quickly as possible, or it will turn to powder. The candy may bo put upon sheets of tliick writing- paper, which have been liiid upon cold dishes. It should b(! removed when warm, but will break if touched while hot. Time, from ten to fifteen minutes. Probable cost, 6d. Ginger Cordial.—Pick two pounds of white or black currants. Bruise them slightly, and mix -with them one ounce and a half of ground ginger. Pour over them one quart of good whisky or brandy, and let them stand for two days. Strain off the liquid, add one pound of loaf sugar, boiled to a syrup, ■with a small tea-cupful of water. Bottle, and cork closely for use. Probable cost. Is. 3d., exclusive of the spirit. Sufficient for three pints of cordial. Ginger Cream.—Cut four ounces of pre- served ginger into thin slices. Put the yolks of three fresh eggs into a saucepan, ■with a pint of milk and two table-spoonfuls of the syrup. Let it boil gently, stirring all the time, till the cream is thick and smooth. Strain it into a basin, add one gill of cream and three-quart«rs of an ounce of gelatine dissolved in a little milk. "Whisk it until it thickens, pour it into a damped mould, and put it in a cool place until set. Time, four hours or more to set the cream. Probable cost, 3s. 2d., with cream at Is. 6d. per pint. Sufficient for two pints and a half of cream. Ginger Cream Ice.—Take a quarter of a pound of preserved ginger, cut this into very thin slices, using a silver knife if it is at hand, put them into a saucepan with a pint of cream —or a pint of milk boiled and mixed with the yolks of six eggs—half a pound of sugar, and two table-spoonfuls of the ginger 'syrup. Stir the mixture over the fire until it thickens a little, then strain through a sieve. Pour into a mould, and when the cream is cold, freeze in the ordi- nary way. Keep in ice till wanted. Probable cost, 2s. 2d. for this quantity if made ■with cream ; Is. 4d., if made with milk and eggs. Sufficient for a little less than a quart of ice. Ginger Cup Cake.—IMix two cupfuls of sifted sugar with two cupfuls of butter, melted, but not oiled. Add thi-ee weU-beaten eggs, a cupful of treacle, four heaped cupfuls of flour, a table-spoonful of ground ginger, a table-spoon- ful of dissolved saleratus, and a cupful of new nulk. When thoroughly and smoothly mixed, pour into a buttered mould, and bake in a moderate oven. If preferred, the mixture may be baked in patty-pans. Time to bake, a quarter of an hour in small pans, an hour and a half in a mould. Probable cost, Is. 8d. for this quantity. Sufficient for a three-pint mould. Ginger Drops.—I*Iix one ounce of ground ginger vnth one pound of sifted sugar, and put thom into a saucepan \vith a cupful of water; add two ounces of freslily-c.andied orange, pounded in a mortar, with a little sugar. Boil gently, stirring all the time, xmtil the syrupGIN GIN ( 267 ) snaps when put into cold water. Dip the pm into cold water for a minute, then pour the mixture out in di-ops, on writing paper, or on an oiled slab. A little butter may be thrown in if the syrup boils too quickly; or a little lemon-juice, or any other acid, if it is in danger of ginining. Time, a quai-ter of an hour. Pro- bable cost, 8d. Ginger, Essence of.—Take some whole ginger, and grind it to powder just bofore using it, as the flavour quickly evaporates. Put three ounces of powdered ginger and two ounces of freshly-cut lemon-rind into a quart of brandy, or spirits of wine. Let the mixture infuse a fortnight, shaking it every day. Then strain, and bottle for use. This prei^aration is warming and invigorating, and, if mixed with a little boiling water and sugar, is an excellent cure for flatulency. Probable cost, about 5d., ex- clusive of the spirit. Sufficient for one quart of essence. Gingerette.—Pick and bruise one pound of either white or black currants, fully ripe, and put them, with the thinly-peeled rind of a lemon, into one pint of imsweetened gin. C!ork closely, and leave for three days, then strain. Add half an ounce of freshly-ground ginger, and one poimd of loaf sugar. Leave the gingerette a week longer, stir it every day, strain once more, and bottle for use. Probable cost, lOd., exclusive of the spirit. Sufficient for one quart. Ginger Pancakes.—Mix the yolks of three eggs, and the white of one egg, very smoothly, with four table-spoonfuls of flour. Add a pinch of salt, and a tea-spoonful of freshly-grated ginger. When quite smooth, stir in a pint of new milk. Just before cooking, put in two table-spoonfuls of brandy. Fry the pancakes in the usual way [see Pancakes). Send lemon-juice and sifted sugar to table with them. The batter for pancakes is better made an hour or two before it is wanted. Time, ten minutes to fry. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of the brandy. Sufficient for four persons. Ginger, Preserved.—Preserved ginger is sent to us from the SVest Indies, and is made by boiling the ginger in svrup when green. It is a favourite dish for dessert, and should be bright and clear. If dark and stringy, it is not good. Agreeable imitations may be made either from rhubarb, lettuce stalks, or vegetable marrows {see the two following recipes). Ginger, Preserved, Imitation of.— Lsc either garden rhubarb or the stalks of lettuces, going to seed. Strip ofi: the stringy l)art, and cut the stalks into pieces about two inches long. Wash them well, drain, and put them into a saucepan with five pints of water, one pound of sugar, and two table-spoonfuls of freshly-ground ginger. Boil slowly for twenty Tiiinutes, and set the preparation aside for two .lys, boil then half an hour, and repeat the process a third time. Drain the stalks. Make a thick syrup by boiling together one cupful of water, one pound of loaf sugar, and one ounce und a half of gingor for every pound of stalks. I'our the syrup boiling hot upon the stalks, and, when cold put the preserve into jars, and J cover closely. It will be ready for use in a fort- night. Probable cost, 7d. per pound. One pound of rhubarb will make about one ijouud of preserve. Ginger, Preserved, Imitation of (anothci- way).—Take medium-sized vegetable- maiTOws; remove the peel and seeds, and cut the marrow into small lumps about two inches long. Weigh them, and pour over them as much syrup as will cotver them; the sjTup being made by pouiing one pint of boiling water over half a pound of moist sugar. Cover the bowl which contains the vegetable-marrows, to keep out the dust, and put it on one side for two days. At the end of that time, drain the pieces of maiTOw, and lay them in a saucepan, with one pound of loaf sugar and a cupful of water to every pound of marrow. Put into a muslin bag two ounces of freshly-ground ginger and half a tea-spoonful of cayenne, and allow this- quantity, with the rind and juice of three lemons, to every four pounds of marrow. Simmer gently, and, when clear, add a glass of gin. Probable cost, 8d. per pound. Sufficient, one pound of marrow will make about one pound of preserve. Ginger Pudding.—Shied a quarter of a pound of fresh beef suet very finely. Add a pinch of salt, half a pound of flour, four ounces of moist sugar, and a dessert-spoonful of powdered ginger. Mix all these ingredients thoroughly, and put them dry into a well- buttered mould, which they will fill. Boil for three hours. Turn out, and serve with wine sauce. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Ginger Pudding (another way).—Chop very small three ounces of preser\'ed ginger, and squeeze over it a tea-spoonful of lemon- juice. Put a breakfast-cupful of' milk on the fire, with a quarter of a pound of butter and a quarter of a pound of sugar. Let it boil, then draw it to the side, and mix with it, very smoothly, six ounces of flour. Put it on the fire again, and beat it very smoothly, until it comes up with the spoon in a lump, leaving the sides of the saucepan quite clear. Take it off, mix with it the chopped ginger, the yolks of four eggs whisked thoroughly, and the sjTTip of the ginger. Just before cooking, add the whites of the eggs, beaten to a firm froth. Put the pud- ding into a well-buttered mould, and steam it for one hour. Turn out, and serve with wine sauce. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Sufficient for five or six persons. This pudding is very good baked. Ginger Puffs.—Mix two eggs thoroughly, and beat them smoothly with four ounces of fine flour. Add a pinch of salt, a quarter of a small nutmeg, gi-ated, half a tea-spoonfxil of freshly-ground ginger, a dessert-spoonful of sifted loaf sugar-, three table-spoonfuls of sherry, and a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice. Half fin some well-buttered cups with the mixture, and bake in a brisk oven. Tui-n out before serving, and serve with wine sauce Time, twenty minutes to bake. Probable cost. 4d., exclusive of the wine. Sufficient for tlu-ee or four puff's.( 268 ) GIN Ginger Sauce.—Grato an inch and a half oi; whole ginger, and mix it with four tabio-spoonfIlls of tinoly-siftod loaf sugar. Put these into a saueepan, with a hreakfast-eupful of water and an inch of lemon-rind. Himmer gently for ten minutes, then add tho juico of a lemon and a glasH of white wine or brandy. Strain before serving. Probable cost, 3d., ex- clusive of tho wino. Suliiciont i'or one jnat of Kiiuco. ^ Ginger Snaps.—Mix half a pound of flolu" with two table-spoonfuls of moist sugar. Add a jjinch of salt, a dessert-spoonful of groimd ginger, and a pinch of cayenne. Make into a paste with four ounces of treacle .and a table-spoonful of milk. Bake in a moderate oven, on a buttered tin, in small round cakea, till crisp—from fifteen to twenty minutes. Probable cost, 4d. Ginger Souffl^ Pudding. — Mix smoothly over the fire one ounce of butter and one ounce of flour. Add tho well-beaten yolks of two eggs and a giU of milk. Beat to a smooth batter ; pour the mixture into a basin, and stir into it one ounce of preserved ginger, cut into thin slices, with a tea-spoonful of the ginger sprup. Just before bakiiig, add the whites of the eggs, beaten to a firm froth. Butter a mould rather thickly. Ornament the inside in any pretty fanciful way with lemon, citron, or 'dried fruit, cut into shapes; pour in the batter, place a piece of buttered paper over the top, and steam gently, until it feels firm in the centre. Turn out, and serve with ginger sauce {see Oinger Sauce). Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient ior three persons. Ginger Syrup.—Break three-quarters of a pound of ginger-root into small pieces. Boil it gently Avith four quarts of water, and the thin rind of a lemon, imtil the water is reduced ■one-half. Strain, and boil again with five pounds of loaf sugar. Eemove the scum care- fully tUl no more rises ; and when the sjnrup is •cold, bottle it for use. Time, five hours. Pro- table cost, 28. 8d. Sufficient for three quarts ■of syrup. Ginger Water Ice.—Make a syrup by toiling together half a pound of refined sugar with half a pint of water and the thin rind of a large lemon, for ten minutes. Strain, and add two table-spoonfuls of lemon-juice and a quarter of a pound of preserved ginger—half of which has been "well poimded in a mortar, and half cut into thin slices. Mix thoroughly, pour into a mould, and freeze. Probable cost, about lOd. Sufficient for rather more than a jnnt of ice. Ginger Wine. — Boil, in a perfectly clean copper, six gallons of water, eighteen •pounds of loaf sugar, the thin rinds of iseven lemons and two Seville oranges, half a pound of unbleached ginger, bruised, an 1 a •quarter of a pound of raisins. Boil for an 'iiour, skim carefully, and pour oS into a large ■\'at until the next day. The preparation must not be left in the copper. Strain, add the juice of tho lemons and oranges, an ounce of isinglass, and two table-spoonfulB of thick fresh yeast. Put tho ginger wine into a cask, stir it each day until fermentation wjasea, wliich wUl be in two or thi-ee days. Bung it uj), and leave it for six weeks. Sti-ain it into another cask, and in four weeks it will be ready for bottling. A quart of brandy may be added, or not. Sullicieut for a uine-gallou cask. Probable cost, Is. 2d. per gallon. Ginger Wine (a quick- way of makingj. —The uest time for making ginger wine la the spring or autumn. Boil together seven gallons of water, nineteen pounds of sugar, and nine ounces of best Jamaica ginger, liruised, for half an hour. Remove the scum carefully as it rises, and leave the liquid imtil the next day. Chop very small nine pounds of raisins—two-thirds of which should be Malaga, and one-thii-d Muscatelle. Put these into a twelve-gallon cask, with a gallon and a. half of good whiskey, or any other spirit, and four lemons, cut into sUces. Let these ingre- dients stand until next day; then put with them the cleared Uquid, being careful to leave any sediment behind, and to strain it. As there is no fermentation, the cask may be bunged immediately. The wine will be ready for fining, by mixing with it one ounce of dissolved isinglass, in a fortnight. In another fortnight it may be bottled. Probable cost, lOd. per gallon, exclusive of the spirit. Ginger Wine, Superior, — Very superior ginger wine may be made by sub- stituting fresh cider for water in the last recipe but one. Gipsy Cake (this ie generally knoT\'n as Tipsy Cake).—Take a g ood stale spongecake, and in choosing the sue, consider the glass dish in which it is to be served. Prick it through in several places with a knitting- needle or skewer, and soak it in sweet -wine and brandy. As the liquid runs into the dish, pour it over again. Blanch some sweet almonds. Cut them lengthways into spikes, and stick these into the cake. Pour a good custard into the dish, and serve as soon as possible. Time, half an hour to soak the cake. Glace Napolitain.—Take four ounces of Carolina rice, wash it thoroughly, and put it in a stewpan with a pint of milk, a pint of good cream, a pinch of salt, and two ounces of sugar. Let the rice swell considerably in this. When it is tender enough to give way between the fingers, add a stick of good vanilla, and boil it one minute, then let it get cold. TNTien cold, take all the cream that remains liquid, and put it in a stewpan with the yolks of six eggs; if there is not cream enough, add to it a little milk. TmTi this on the fire with a wooden spoon, and when the eggs are well done, and the mixture very thick, let it cool. Add to this a pint of double-whipped cream, and after mixing the cream with the custard, taste if the latter is sweet enough. 'Do not make it too sweet. Then take some out m a basin, and put it into the rice only, not into the freezing-pot; next mix together the rice and cream, take out the vanilla, and put all the rest into the freezing-pot; work it well in tho ice.GOD GIB ( 259 ) ; ^When quite frozen, put it in ice-moulds that shut on both sides; put them in the pail with salt all round the ice. At dinner-tune dip the moulds in cold water, and push the ice olf the moulds, and cover the gateau with the cream f that you have put by in the basin. I Girdle Cake.—Rub three ounces of fresh i "butter into one pound of flour; add a pinch • of salt, and as much butter-milk or cream as will make a stiff paste. RoU the paste out thin, and make into small round cakes. Bake on a girdle over the fire, and turn the cake over, so that both sides may be done. In Ireland, a little carbonate of soda is used, instead of butter. Time, five to six minutes to bake. Probable cost, 4d. for this quantity. Sufficient for about one dozen cakes. Glaze.—Glaze is made from clear stock, boiled down until it forms a sort of meat j •■varnish, or strong jelly; it is used to improve the appearance of many dishes. It is also made in large quantities for use in soups and I -sauces, and for this purpose is A'ery convenient. 1 It is especially suited for travellers, as it is nourishing, compact, and economical. The knuckle of veal, the legs and shins of beef, and the shanks of mutton are particularly gelatinous, and therefore the best for making glaze. Glaze may be kept for some time in small jars, such as are used for jelly, if kept dry. When a little is wanted in domestic cookery, a pint of clear beef stock may be boiled quickly down, to produce about a table- spoonful, or as much as will ornament a joint. Or the gravy found imder the fat left from a roasted joint may be mixed with melted gelatine to make glaze. Glaze should be kept in an earthen jar, and when it is wanted for use this jar should be placed in a saucepan of boiling water, and its contents melted in this way, care being taken that the saucepan is not so full that the water will go into the glaze. Glaze must never be put upon a joint unless the latter is quite diy, and two or three layers should be put on it, with a paste-brush, allowing one layer to dry before another is put on. Glaze may be purchased of the grocer, in any quantity. It is usually sold in skins, and costs about lOd. ,per pound. Glaze for Cold Hams, Tongues, &c. —Take some clear, strong stock, made from the bones of a shin of beef or a knuckle of veal, without either salt, pepper, or herbs, and quite free from fat or sediment. Put it into a copper stewpan, with a little whole pepper, and let it boil quickly imtil it is as thick as sjTup. It must be closely watched, and, as soon as it begins to thicken, stirred without ceasing. Keep trying a little on a plate, and when it sets like jam it is done enough; it must be boiled until it will do this. If a light-coloured glaze is wanted, more veal than beef should be used. Time, boil as quickly as possible till the stock begins to thicken, then put it into another smaller saucepan, and simmer gently until it jellies. On the average, one pound of meat will produce an ounce of glaze. Glaze for Pastry.—A rich yellow glaze is given to meat-pies by brushing them over with the beaten yolk of an egg. A lighter glaze la given by using the white as well as the yolk, and a lighter still by the addition of a little milk, or, for sweet dishes, by brushing the pastry with sugar and water. Gloucester Jelly (Invalid Cookery).— Put an ounce each of ground rice, sago, eringo- root, hartshom-shavings, and pearl barley into a saucepan with two quarts of water, and boil gently until the liquid is reduced to one quart. Strain, and put aside till wanted. It may be sweetened and flavoui-ed, and eaten like jelly, or a few spoonfuls of it may be dissolved in milk, tea, or broth. It is nom-ishing, and easily digested. Gelatine or isinglass may be used instead of hartshom-shavings, if preferred. Time, about two hours to boil. Probable cost, 6d. per quart. Sufficient for one quart of jelly. Gloucester Puddings. — Take three eggs, and their w^eight in butter and flour; mix thoroughly, and add twelve bitter almonds, blanched and pounded, and a quarter of a pound of sifted loaf sugar. Beat well together to a light batter. Half fill some cups with the mixture, bake, turn out, and serve with wine sauce. Time, to bake half an hour. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for four persons. Glove Cakes.—Beat the yolks of five eggs; mix them with sufficient flour to make a smooth, firm paste; add three table-spoonfuls of finely- sifted sugar, three table-spoonfuls of thick cream, and some cardamoms. Roll out the pastry, cut it into fanciful shapes, and fry in hot butter, to which has been added a spoonful or two of water. Time, five or six minutes to fry. Probable cost, 8d. for this quantity. Gobble Sauce for Pish. — Put one ounce of butter into a saucepan, and mix it very smoothly with an ounce of flour. Add six table-spoonfuls of cream or new milk, a pinch of cayenne, two or three grates of nutmeg, a tea- spoonful of the essence of anchovies, and a tea-spoonful of lime or lemon-juice. Stir in two table-spoonfuls of shelled shrimps, and serve quite hot, but the sauce must not boil. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for half a pint of sauce. Godiveau (a French forcemeat).—Take a pound of the fillet of veal, and a pound and a half of good beef suet. Remove the skin and gristle, chop the meat small, and pound it in a mortar. Add a tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of pepper, half a nutmeg, grated, a table-spoonful of scalded and minced parsley, and a tea-spoon- ful of chopped onions or chives, if these are suitalile for the dish with which the forcemeat is to be served. Add, whilst pounding—a tea- spoonful at a time—two well-beaten eggs, and a little water. Take the forcemeat up, and put it in a cool place for an hour. It should have been so thoroughly pounded that no pieces are distinguishable. When a large quantity of forcemeat is required, a little custard may be gradually mixed with the other ingredients. This forcemeat should be made in a cool place, and quickly. It is a good plan to fry a smallGOD ( 2G0 ) GOO qimntity of it in hot fat, to see if it suits the ttisto, ami thou udd either another egg, a little water, or a little more soasoniug, as required. Time, about half an hour to jjrepare. Tro- bablo cost, Is. 2d. per pound. Godiveau Raised Pie.—A good dish may be nuule by lilling a raised pie witli balls made of Godiveau forconioat {m-e the preceding recipe), mi.xed with any sjivoury ragoiit, and pouring over the whole a rich sauce. Golden Pippinsj To Preserve.—Take one dozen golden [tippnis, ])aro tlioni, and scoop out the core, witliout breaking the apples. I'ut two pounds of sugar into a proserving-pan, with one pint of water, and—for a few minutes— the rind of a Seville orange cut into strips; then put in the pippins, and, when the syrup seems thick, add a pint of apple jelly, nicely Havoured with lenion. Boil quickly until the jelly is clear, then lift the jiippins into jars, pour the syrup, &c., over them, and, when cold, cover securely. Time, about three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. for this quantity. Golden Pudding.—Shred very finely six ounces of beef-suet; mix with it half a pound of bread-crumbs, four table-spoonfuls of sugar, half a pound of orange marmalade, three eggs, and a pinch of salt. A little baking- powder will make the pudding lighter. Beat all the ingredients well together, and, if the pudding is not sufficiently moistened, add a little milk. Tie down in a well-floured cloth, and boil for three hours. Serve with v/ine sauce. Probable cost. Is. 3d. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Golden Pudding (another way).—Dis- solve a quarter of a pound of butter, mix with it a quarter of a pound of moist sugar, two ounces of orange marmalade, two ounces of finely-grated bread-crumbs, and the yolks of four eggs, well beaten. Beat all thoroughly together; pour the mixture into a buttered pie-dish, and bake in a good oven. Serve with a little sherry. This pudding may be eaten either hot or cold. Time to bake, half an hour. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for three persons. Good Friday Buns • (commonly called Hot Cross Buns).—Kub a quarter of a poimd of butter into two pounds of flour. Add a pinch of salt; then mix a wine-glassful of fresh, thick yeast with a pint and a half of warmed milk, and stir these into the flour till it forms a light batter. Put the batter in a warm place to rise. When sufficiently risen, work into it half a pound of sugar, half a pound of currants, half a nutmeg, grated, and a quarter of an ounce of powdered mace. Knead these well into the dough, make it up into buns, and place them on buttered baking-tins. Make a cross on them with the back of a knife, brush a little clarified butter over the top, and let them stand a quarter of an hour before the fire. Bake in a good oven. When bread is made at home, hot cross bims may be made by mixing the currants, «&c., with bread dough after it has risen. Time, one hour to let the dough rise; twenty minutes to bake. Suflicient for two dozen buns. Probable cost, Is. 6d. for this, quantity. Goose (a la Daube).—If a goow ih Uxj old to be tender when roasted, it may be ad van- > tageously cooked as follows:—Truss the goose * as for boiling. Eitlier lard it, or pbice two or three slices of bacon at the bottom of tJie pan in whicli it is to be stewed. Put it into a stew- pan with an onion, a carrot, a bunch of savoui-r herbs, one root of jjarsley, two bay-leaves, a blade of mace, lialf a dozen iJC'iJperconis, a tea- spoonful of salt, two glasses of sherry, lialf a glass of brandy, and as mucli stock or water as will just cover the goose. Put on the lid very tightly, and stew gently for four hours. Disli the goose. Strain the saui^e, and jiour ii on the dish. If the goose is to be served aAd, reduce the sauce to a jelly, and poui- as much over the goose as the dish will neatly hold. The giblets may be stewed with the goose, and used separately. Sufficient for eight or ten poi-soiiij. Probable cost of goose, 6s. Goose fa I'ArlesienneV—Truss a goose as for boiling. Stufi: it with a forcemeat made as fol- lows :—Boil four large onions for a few minutes. Drain, chop them small, and mix with them four ounces of bread-crumbs which have been soaked in mUk, thi-ee ounces of fresh butter, a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, a quarter of a nutmeg, gi-ated, a little pepper and salt, and four ounces of chestnuts prepared as for force- meat {see Chestnut Forcemeat). Put the goosf in a braizing-pan, -with a large sliced carrot, half a head of celery, or a quarter of a drachm of poimded celery-seed tied in muslin, a bunch of savoury herbs, an onion stuck with six cloves, a sprig of parsley, a blade of mace, half a dozen peppercorns, and as much stock or water as will barely cover the goose. Let it braize slowly for two hours, then take it out, strain the- liquor, skim off the fat, and boU it down until it is considerably reduced. Mix with it an equal quantity of tomato sauce, and serve the goose ynth the sauce poured roimd it. Probable cost of goose, 6s., when in fuU season. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Goose, Bonne Bouche for. —Mix very smoothly half a tea-spoonful of salt, a pinch of cayenne, and a tea-spoonful of made mustard, with a glass of port, and pour it into the goose just before serving, through a slit made in the apron. Time, ten minutes to pre- pare. Probable cost, 4d. Sufficient for one goose. Goose, Braized (a la Jardiniere).—Cook a goose according to the directions given for Goose II la Daube. "^Tien it is sufficiently stewed, put in the Hquid any quantity of mixed vegetables, ready cooked, such as French brans, green peas, pieces of cauliflower, and cairot." and turnips, cut into shapes. Thicken the sjiuce,. let aU boil up together, and serve with the goose. ■ Time, four hours to stew. . Proliable cost of goose, 6s. Sufficient for eight or ten persons (.w n/so Goose, to Braise). i Goose, Cold Sauc3 for. —Put two oimros of green sago-lo.nvos into a jar with one ounce of thin lemon-rind, a minced shallot, aGOO GOO ( 261 ) tea-spoonful of salt, a drachm of cayenne pepper, and a pint of claret. Soak for a fortnight, then pour off the cloiu- liquid, and serve in a tm-een, or boil liiilf a cupful in half a pint of good gravy. If not wanted for immediate use, this sauce may be kept in a bottle closely corked. Pi-obablo cost, 'id., exclusive of the Avine. Sulhcient for one pint of siiuce. Goose, Cold, To Hash.—Cut the remains of a cold goose into small, convenient-sized pieces. Put some sliced onions into a stewpan with a piece of butter, and let them fiy vmtil they are tender, but not bm-nt. Add as much stock or water as will be sauce for the hash, with a little pepper, salt, a bunch of sweet herbs, the bones and skin of the goose, and a glass of port or clai'et, if liked. Boil gently until the gravy is good, then strain it, thicken it, if necessary, and put in the pieces of goose to get hot, but the gi'avy must not boil after the goose is added. If any goose-stuffing has been left, heat it in the oven. Place the goose on a hot dish, pom* the gravy over it, and garnish the dish with toasted bread and little heaps of stuffing. Time, thi'ee- quarters of an hour. Probable cost, 4d., ex- clusive of the cold meat, &c. Goose, Forcemeat for [see Forcemeat for Goose). Goose, Gravy for.—Slice a large onion, and fry it in a little butter, or good dripping, with half a pound of gravy-beef, until slightly browned. Pour over it i, pint and a half of water, ■with any bones or trimmings you may have, and simmer f ej tly for two hours. Skim oflE the fat, season yviia a little salt and pepper, and mix in the gravy that has dropped from the goose. Thicken with a table-spooirful of flour. Strain the gravy, put a little into the ■dish with the goose, and send the rest to table in a tureen. Apple sauce also usually accom- panies roast goose, frobable cost, lOd. Suffi- •cient for one pint of gravy. Goose, Gravy for (another way).—Put the giblets of the goose into a saucepan, with half a pound of gravy-beef, three or four green •sage-leaves, two small onions, a piece of toasted crust, some whole pepper, a little salt, and three pints of water. Bring the liquid to a boil, skim, and simmer gently for two hours and a half. Strain, and thicken with a little flour, and boil once more. Before serving, a glass of port or claret may be added, if liked. Probable cost, 8d., exclusive of the giblets and wine. Suffi- cient for two pints and a half of gravy. Goose, Gravy for (another way).—Cut a small onion into slices, and strew over these throe or four leaves of sage, finely powdered. Fry them for four or five minutes in a little butter, then add a small cupful of good stock, and mix in, verj- smoothly, a salt-spoonful of snlt, half a salt-spoonful of pepper, two or three grains of cayenne, a tea-spoonful of mixed mustard, and a glass of port or claret. Simmer for a few minutes, strain, and send to table a little of the gravy on the dish with the goose, and the rest in a tureen. Time, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, exclusive of the wine, 4d. Sufficient for half a pint of gravy. I Goose, Green, Dressing a.—Truss a green goose in the same way as a fuU-gi'own I one. It must not be stuffed, but the inside I must be seasoned with pepper and salt, and two ^ or thi-ee ounces of fresh butter put, in to moisten it. Set the bird down to a clear, brisk fire, and when it is sufficiently cooked, serve with waters cresses round it, and send brown gi'avy I and either soitcI, gooseberry, or tomato sauce, : to table with it. Time, about thrce-quarteis of \ an hoiir to roast. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Probable cost, 5s. I Goose, Grilled.—Take the remains I of cold goose. The legs, back, rump, and gizzard are especially suitable. The breast, I &:c., may be made into a hash. Dip the joints j in clarified butter, and score the flesh in two or j thi-ee places, pepper them rather highly, strew I a little salt over them, dip them in finely-grated I bread-crumbs, and, again, in the butter, and i broU them over a strong clear fire until brightly : browned. Serve either dry or with grill sauce (see'Grill Sauce). Time, three or four minutes to broil. Goose Hams.—Geese are in some parts salted, cured, and smoked. Cut the goose through the back, the breast, and legs. Rub a quarter of an ounce of saltpetre well into it, and, afterwards, half a poimd of salt, and two ounces of good brown sugar. Let the bird remain in pickle for thiee days, turning it every day, and rubbing it well with the pickle. Dip the pieces, wet with the brine, into sawdust, covering each piece AveU. Hang them in smoke for a Aveek, then let them hang in a dry place. Before using them, rub off the sawdust. They are eaten without further cooking, with bread and butter. The lean should be red, and the fat white. Goose, How to Choose.—Choose a I young goose. This is more easily said than done, as geese are frequently offered for sale when they are much too old to be eaten. The breast should be plump, the skin white, and the feet pliable and yeUow. If the last are red or stiff, the bird is old or stale. Although Michaelmas is the time for geese, they are in perfection about June; after Chiistmas the flesh is tough. A goose ought not to be eaten after it is a year old. It is said that Queen Elizabeth was the originator of the ISIichaelmas goose. She had one on the table before her when the news arrived of the defeat of the Spanish Ai-mada, and she commanded the same dish to be served every succeeding Michaelmas. Green or young geese come into season in March. Goose in Jelly, or Duck in Jelly. —Put the goose in a deep stewpan, and barely cover it with clean stock, or water. Put with it a dessert-spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of pepper, two large onions, two bay-leaves, two or three sprigs of lemon thyme and sweet basil, with a small piece of tarragon. Put the cover on the saucepan, and simmer gently, until the meat parts easily from the bones. Take out the goose, drain it from the gra-v)', remove the bones, which may be( 262 ) GOO GOO returned to the saucepan, and boiled a little lougur, and out tho nioiit into convoniont-sized piofos. It' tho gravy roquiros it, add a little more popper and salt. ISkini oft' tho fat, strain it through a jolly-l)ag, and mix witli an ounco of good gelatine, which has hoon soaked in cold wator for half an hour or morn. Put a little of the jolly into the bottom of the mould. Let it sot, then put in any pretty oi-namenttil dovicos, such as hard-boiled eggs, sliced beetroot, pickles, &c.; pour a little moro jelly over these, and, when it is stiff, put in tho pieces of meat, leaving room for tho jelly to How between them. Let the dish remain until the next day, then turn out, and garnish according to taste. Timo to simmor tho goose, two hours, or a little more. Probable cost of goose, 6s, Sufficient for a breakfast, luncheon, or supper dish. A couple of ducks may be prepared in this way Instead of a goose. Goose Liver, Klosse (a German recipe). —Grate very finely the crumb of a French roll, and soak it in as much milk as -will just cover it. Put a piece of butter the size of a large egg into a saucepan, with four well-beaten eggs, a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, half a tea- spoonful of salt, and a pinch of powdered cin- namon. Stir these well over the fire till the mixtui-e thickens, then add the soaked crumb, first squeezing tho milk thoroughly from it. Add a heaped table-spoonful of dry grated bread-crumbs, the yolks of two more eggs, and the goose liver minced very fine. When all the ingredients are thoroughly mixed, make them up into balls the size and shape of an egg. Lift these carefully into boiling water or broth, and let them boil fully half an hour. It is a good plan to try one ball first; if it will not hold together in boiling, add a few more bread- crumbs. The balls may be fried in hot fat, if preferred. Probable cost. Is. 4d. Sufficient for six or eight klosse. Goose Liver Pasty (a German recipe).— Take the livers of two fat geese, such as are ordinarily sold. Let the birds be drawn at home, to insure having the li\ers whole, and be careful not to break the gall-bag, which should be entirely cut away. Put the livers in milk, to whiten them. Mince very finely a pound and a quarter of veal, and a quarter of a pound of fat bacon; mix with them two ounces of sardines, cleared of skin and bone, the juice of a small lemon, and half its rind, and an ounce of chopped capers—all finely minced. Melt a piece of butter the size of a large egg in a stewpan, put in with it the above articles, cover closely, and steam gently until thte meat is sufficiently cooked—but it must not brown. When it is done enough, stir into it a cupful of thick sour cream, a table-spoonful of vinegar, two table-spoonfuls of white wine, a dessert- spoonful of salt, a salt-spoonful of pepper, a third of a nutmeg, grated, and two weU-beaten eggs. Make some raised pie-crust by boiling together half a pint of water, two ounces of lard, and two ounces of butter, and stirring into these ingredients when boilinga pound and a half of flour, and a tea-spoonful of salt. When the pastry is cold, line a pio-mould with it. Spread half the mince at the bottom. Cut the livers in slices and lay them on it. Spruikle over them a dessert-spoonful of salt, a toa-spoonful of l)eppor, and tliree cloves, finely pounded. Spread tho rest of the mince on the top, and cover with tho pie-crust. Make a hole in tho ndddle, brush over with beaten egg, and bake in a nioderate oven. The pie must not brown. Let it remain until tho next day, when it may bo put in hot water a minute or two, to make it turn out more easily, lirush it all over with beaten egg. A few truffles are a great improvement to this pasty, when they are obtainable. They should be sfmked, washed, and peeled, then cut into thin slices, and stuck through the livers. Time to bake, two hours. Probable cost, 4s. for this quantity. Goose, Marinaded.—Pluck, singe, and bone a goose. If the latter operation is too difficult, it may be dispensed with. Stuff it wth a highly-seasoned sage-and-onion stuffing, truss it securely, and fry it in a little hot fat until slightly browned all round. Take it up, put it in a saucepan, just cover it with good gravy, and let it simmer gently for two hours and a half. Drain it, put it in the oven to keep warm ; skim the gravy, thicken it with a little flour and butter, add some browning, a table- spoonful of lemon pickle, an anchovy, pounded, and a seasoning of pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. A glass of port may be added, if liked. Put the goose on a hot dish, pour the gravy over it, and serve. Probable cost of goose, 6s. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Goose, Mock.—Mock Goose is a name given in some parts to a leg of pork roasted without the slan, and stuffed just under the knuckle with sage-and-onion stuffing. It is a good plan to boil it partially before skinning and putting it down to roast. When it is almost done enough, sprinkle over it a powder made by mixing together.a table-spoonful of finely-grated bread-crumbs, with a tea-spoonful of powdered sage, half a salt-spoonful of salt, and the same of pepper. Send some good gravy to table in a tureen with it. Time, allow fully twenty minutes to the pound. Probable cost, lid. per pound. Goose Pie. — This is made either with one goose, or, what is better still, two green geese. Braize or stew them {see Goose a 1' Arlesienne), and cut each goose into eight pieces; season, and put them into a good raised crust. Or they may be put into a pie-dish with a short crust, in the usual way. A good-sized piece of butter should be put into the dish. Time, two hours to bake. Probable cost, one goose, 6s. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Goose Pie (another way) .—The real English Christmas gooso-pie proper is made by boning a goose, turkey, fowl, and pigeon, and putting the turkey inside the goose, the fowl inside the turkey, and the pigeon inside the fowl. A strong raised crust is then fixed properly in form, and all are put inside it, any vacancies being filled up with pieces of ham, tongue, or forcemeat. Clari- fied butter is poured over the whole, tho hd put on, and the crust brushed over with beaten egg, and ornamented. It should be well bound withGOO ( 263 ) GOO three or four folds of buttered paper before being put into the oven. This pie, though sometimes talked of, is not often made. Time to bake, four hours. Goose Pudding, or Savoury Pud- ding (a Yorksliiro recipe).—Pour as much boiling milk over a poimd of stale bread as will just cover it. Let it soak until soft, then beat it with a fork, and take out any lumps that will not soften. Add six ounces of beef suet, finely shred, four large onions, boiled and chopped, a dessert-spoonftxl of powdered sage, and the same of marjoram and thyme, a dessert-spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of pepper, a dessert-spoonful of oatmeal, and three eggs well beaten. Spread the mixture in a buttered or greased dripping- tin, about three-quarters of an inch in thick- ness. Put it in the oven for half an hour, to cook the under-part, then place it under the goose, before the £re, and let the gravy drip on it. It must be well browned in every part. Cut it into squares, and serve it at the same time as the goose. This pudding may also be served with roast pork. Time, an hour and a half. Probable cost, Is. 3d. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Goose, Roast.—A roast goose is generally fiUed with sage-and-onion stuffing {see Goose Stuffing, Sage-and-onion). The way in which this is made must depend upon the taste of those who have to eat it. If a strong flavour of onion is Uked, the onions should be chopped raw. If this is not the case, they should be boUed in one, two, or three waters, and mixed with a smaller or larger proportion of bread- crumbs. It should be remembered, when bread- crumbs are used, room should be allowed for swelling. Truss the goose firmly, tie the open- ings securely, put it down to a clear, brisk fire, and baste it plentifully until done enough. A goose is both unwholesome and unpalatable if insufficiently cooked. Take it up, remove the skewers and fastenings, pour a little gravy into it {see Goose, Bonne Bouche for), and send some good gravy {see Goose Gravy), and either apple or tomato sauce to table with it. Garnish with lemon. Time, from an hour and a half to two hours and a half. Probable cost of goose, 6s. {See Goose Stuffing, To Deprive of Offensive Odour.) Goose, Roast, To Carve.—Begin by turning the neck end of the goose towards you, and cutting the whole breast in long slices, from aOOSE, BOAST, TO CARVE. one wing to another {see the lines a b) . To take off the leg, insert the fork in the small end of the bone, pressing it to the bodj', put the knife in at A, turn the leg back, and if the bird be young, it will easQy come away; if old, we will not answer for it. To take off the wing, insert the fork in the small end of the pinion, and press it close to the body ; put the knife in at B, and divide the joint. When the leg and wing are oflE one side, attack those on the other; but, except when the company is very large, it is seldom necessary to cut up the whole goose. The back and lower side bones, as well as the two side bones by the wing, may be cut off; but the best pieces of a goose are the breast, and the thighs, after being separated from the drumstick. Serve a little of the seasoning from the inside, by making a circular slice in the apron at c. Should there be no- stuffing, a glass of wine, a little orange-gravy or vinegar may be poured into the body of the goose, at the opening made in the apron by the carver for this purpose. Goose Soup.—When a goose is boiled, a good soup may be made of the liquid, but it is well to use stock, instead of water, in which to boil it. Put the giblets into the saucepan, together with half a pound of lean ham, an onion, a carrot, and a head of celery, or half a drachm of pounded celery-seed. Skim it well and simmer gently, until the goose is sufficiently cooked. Take up the goose and the giblets, the first of which may be served with onion sauce, and the last made into a pie. Strain the soup, season it with half a drachm of cayenne, and add half a tumblerful of sherry or Madeira- No salt wiU be required if the ham has beea used. Time to boil, tw^o hours. Sufficient for two quarts of soup. Probable cost, 8d., ex- clusive of the meat and wine. Goose Stuffing, Apple.—Pare, core, and cut into small pieces some good baking apples. Fill the goose as full as it will hold with these, fasten the openings securely, and roast. When this stuffing is used, apple sauce may be dispensed with. In Germany, a few almonds, blanched and sliced, or a few- currants, are sometimes mixed with the apples. Goose Stuffing, Chestnut.—Take the outer skin from about two dozen fine, sound chestnuts, and throw them into boiling water. Let them simmer a minute or two over the fire, when they may be blanched like almonds. Put them into a saucepan with as much stock as wiU cover them, let them stew gently until soft, then drain them; mix with them two ounces of butter, a tea-spoonful of minced parsley, a parboiled onion, chopped small, and a little pepper and salt. Put this stuffing into the goose. Fasten the ends securely, and roast before a clear fire. Time, twenty minutes to- simmer the chestnuts. Sufficient for a goose. Goose Stuffing, Potato. — Take two pounds of good sound potatoes, peel, and wash them, and cut them into small pieces, with an onion, finely minced. Put them into a stew- pan, with a piece of butter the size of a walnut.. Cover the pan closely, and shake it about, that the potatoes may not stick to the bottom, and when they are partly cooked, but not tender, mix with them the liver of the goose, chopped smalL( 264 ) GOO GOO Strew over thom a tea-spoonful of i)owdorod sago, a Halt-spoouful of salt, and lialf a salt- spoonful of popper. Put the stullin/,' insido the f^ooso, tie the openings securely, and roiist. If preferred, the potatoes may bo mashed, instead of being cooked as above. Time, five or six minutes to steam the potatoes. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient to stuff a goose. Goose Stuffing, Sage-and-onion.- Boil tour largo onions till tender; drain tliem from the water, and mince them finely with four fresh sage-loaves, or six dry ones, four table-spoonfuls of bread-crumbs, a tea-spoonful •of salt, a tea-spoonful of made mustard, a tea-spoonful of moist sugar, half a tea-spoonful ■of pepper; a large apple, pared and cored, and a quarter of a nutmeg, grated, may be added, li approved. Time to boil the onions, from twenty minutes to half an hour. Sufficient for a good-sized goose. Probable cost, 6d. for this quantity {see also additional particulars con- nected with this stuffing, under Goose, Roast). Goose Stuffing (to deprive of offensive odoui-),—The unpleasantness arising from eat- ing sage-and-onion stuffing used for roast goose may be in a great measure prevented by putting in the centre of the stuffing, before the bird is cooked, a lemon with the yellow rind taken off, and as much of the thick white skin left on as possible. Before the goose is sent to table, the flap should be opened and the lemon taken out, and at once thrown away. The lemon Avill have absorbed a great part of the im- pui'ities, w-hich otherwise would have remained in the stuffing. Care should be taken not to cut the lemon so that the juice could escape. Goose, To Boil.—Pick and singe a goose carefully. Let it soak in lukewarm milk and water for eight or ten hours. Stuff, and truss it securely; i^ut it into a saucejjan, with as much cold water as will cover it, bring it to a boil, and let it simmer gently until done enough. Send good onion sauce to table with it. Time, from an hour and a quarter to an hour and a half after it has boiled. Prcbable cost of goose, 6s. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Goose, To Braise.—Truss the bird as if for boiling. A braising-pan proper is con- structed to hold live coal on the lid, but where this is not to be had, the goose must be put into an ordinary stewpan, with a closely-fitting lid. Fat bacon and savoury herbs should be laid both above and under it, and a little stock to moisten it. Thick folds of paper should then be ljut on it, and the lid wrapped about with a cloth to prevent any of the steam escaping. The bird should be cooked vert/ slowly. Time, five hours. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Probable cost of goose, 6s. Goose, To Truss, for Roasting.— Pluck the goose. Carefully remove the quill- sockets, and singe off the hairs. Cut off the neck close to the back, leaving the skin long enough to turn over. After drawing, wash and wipe the bird both inside and out, and cut off the feet and pinions at the first joint. Pull out the throat, and tie the end securely. Beat the breast-bone flat with a rolling-pin. Draw the legs up closely, and put a skewer through them and through the ljudy, and another through the pinions and tlirougli the body. Cut off the end of the vent, and make a hole in the skin large enough for the rump to go througli. This will prevent the soasoning escaping. Gooseberries. — The gooseberry is >o universal a favourite, and is so well-known, tliat it is unnecessiiry to give any description of it. It is exceedingly wholesome and refreshing, and many dishes may be made from it. The principal varieties are the white and red, and the red is the more acid of the two. Smooth- skinned gooseberries are much infeiior in flavour to the rough hairy ones. Gooseberries, Dried, for Winter Dessert.—Cut the tops, but not the stalks, from two pounds of large ripe gooseberries, either red or green. Put them into a syrup made by boiling together a pound of sugar and a pint of water until rather thick. Simmer the goosebenies gently for ten or fifteen minutes, then pour them out with the syrup, and leave them until the next day. BoU them then again for ten minutes, drain the syrup from them, and spread them on a sieve before the fire to dry. They may be candied by dipping them into powdered sugar as they are taken out of the syrup. They should be stored between sheets of paper in tin boxes. Probable cost, Is. for this quantity. Gooseberries, Green, Compote of. —Top and tail a quart of gooseberries. Put them into boiling water for two minutes, and next into cold water, mixed with a table- spoonful of vinegar, for two minutes, to restore the colour, then drain them. Make a syrup by boiling three-quarters of a poimd of loaf sugar in lumps, with one pint of water for ten minutes. Put in the gooseberries. Boil them gently for ten minutes, or until the fruit is tender but unbroken. Turn them out with the syrup, and serve cold. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Probable cost, 7d. Gooseberries. Green, To Bottle.— Gather some goosebeiTies on a dry moming of the day on which they are to be used. War- rington's are the best for this purpose. They should be fully formed, but quite hard. Take off the tops and stalks without bruising the skins, and reject any that are not quite sound and whole. Put them into dry, wide-necked, bottles, and place these up to the necks in a saucepan of cold water. It is well to twist a little hay or straw round each bottle, to prevent them touching each other and being broken. Bring the contents of the saucepan slowly to a boil, and then Hft it from the fire, and let the bottles remain in it until the gooseberries are sufficiently scalded. In order to ascertain when this is the'case, look at one of the bottles, and when the fruit has risen from the bottom it is done enough. Pour a little boiling water over the fruit, to prevent it getting mouldy. Cork and seal securely, and cover the corks with bladder. Place them on their sides in a cool, dry place, and before using pour off the greater part of the water, and add sugar according toGOO GOO ( 265 ) taste. Time, five or ten minutes after the water has boiled. Probable cost of gooseberries, 3d. per quart. Gooseberries, Green, To Preserve, as Hops.—rii^k some of the largest green gooseberries that can be got, and wliiist picking them cut them into quarters a little way down, isci-ape out the seeds, and put the quartered gooseberries into a preserving-pan, with an •equal weight of loaf sugar, and a cupful of water, and boil them imtU they look clear. Put them into jars, cover them secmely, and keep in a cool, dry place. The pulp may be boiled with sugar for gooseberry fool or jam. "Time to boil, about half an hoiu-. Gooseberries, Green, To Preserve Whole.—Pick the tops and stalks from some large green goosebemes, put them on the fire, in a saucepan of cold water, and let them simmer gently until they are tender, but un- broken. Throw them into cold water, and for every thi-ee-quarters of a pound of fruit make .a syrup with a pound of loaf sugar and a pint of water. Let the syrup grow cold, put it again into a saucepan, and lift the goose- bemes gently into it. Let them boil until the .sugar has got into them, then take them out carefully, and the next day drain the syrup from them, and boil it until smooth. In order to ascertain when this degree is reached, dip .the finger and thumb into cold water, and take a little sjTup between them. If, when they ai-e opened, a strong thi-ead forms, let the gooseberries boil once more until the synip is thick. Let them cool, put them into jars, pour the syrup over them, cover securely, and keep in a cool dry place. Gooseberry and Rice Pudding.-- i Wash half a pound of best Carolina rice. Put it into a cloth, which has been dipped in hot water and floured, and lay on it a pint and a half of green gooseberries, picked and washed. Tie the cloth securely, lca^ing plenty of room for the rice to swell, and boil for an hour and ^ half. Sen-e it with sweet sauce. Probable j <;ost for this quantity, 6d. Sufficient for six or seven persons. ! Gooseberry Cakes.—Put some green j .gooseberries in a jar, and place it in a sauce- ' pan of boiling water. Simmer until the fruit ' is soft, then press it through a sieve, and mix •one pound of powdered sugar, and the whites of : two eggs, beaten to a froth, with every pound , of pulp. Beat thoroughly. Put the mixture, in small round cakes, upon sheets of paper, i Tlace these on dishes before the fire, and when sufficiently dry, store them in tin boxes, and lieep them in a dry place. Time, about one hour to simmer the gooseberries. Gooseberry Champagne. — Choose gooseberries which, when fiilly ripe, have little flavour. The green Bath are the best. Take forty pounds of soimd, large, hard ben-ies, re- move the tops and stfilks, and put them into a fifteen-gallon tub. Bruise them sufficiently to burst the bei-ries without breaking the seeds, -and pour over them four gallons of lukewarm water. Stir, and squeeze them in the hands ■until both the juice and pulp are thoroughly J* separated from the seeds and skins, then leave them until the next day, when the liquid should be drawn off, and the fruit pressed through a coarse sieve, with another gallon of water, to extract as much of the goodness of the fruit as possible. Dissolve thirty pounds of loaf sugar in the juice, and, with water, make the liquid up to eleven gallons. Leave it in the tub, add three ounces of crude tartar, cover it with a blanket, and let the temperature of the place where it is set be from 60° to 60° Fahi-enhcit. Let it remain for a day or two, then draw it off into a ten-gallon cask, and keep it well tilled near the bunghole, by i)our- ing ixL the extra gallon as the liquid subsides. When the hissing noise ceases, di-ive in the bung, and bore a hole by its side, into which a vent-peg must be driven, and this must be loosened every two or thi-ee days, to prevent the cask bm-sting. When all danger of this appears to* be over, fasten in the peg tightly. Put the cask in a cool cellar, and let it remain untn the end of December. Pack it from its lees into a fi-esh cask, and in a month it will, in all probability, be clear enough for bottling. If necessary, it may be fined, by adding an ounce of isinglass, dissolved in a bottle of the wine. It should be bottled when the goosebcny- bushes begin to blossom, and its briskness depends veiy much upon its being bottled at the right time. Taste the wine before rack- ing it into a fresh cask, and if it be too sweet, renew the fermentation, either by stirring up the lees or roUing the cask. Wine should be bottled in clear-, settled weather, and the sooner it is bottled after fining, the blighter it will be. Time, twenty-four hours to stand before strain- ing ; ten or twelve days to fennent. Sufficient for ten gallons. Probable cost. Is. 8d. per gallon. Gooseberry Charlotte.—Pick the tops and stalks from a pound and a half of goose- berries; wash and drain them, and boil them with a pound and a haK of loaf sugar, until reduced to a pulji. Press them through a coarse sieve. Take half a dozen sponge-bis- cuits, cut them into thin slices, and line a plain round mould with them. Pour in the fruit, cover_ it with' slices of spongecake, place a ■ cover and a weight on the top, and let it re- main until well set. Turn it out before serving, and pour some good custard or nicely-flavoured cream round it. Thin slices of bread may be used instead of sponge-biscuit. Time, ten or twelve houi'S to set properly. Sufficient for five or six persons. Probable cost. Is. 3d. Gooseberry Cheese.—Pick the tops and stallcs from some rough red gooseberries, fully ripe. Bake them in a moderate oven till soft, then pulp them thi-ough a fine sieve. Let them boU very gently, and add, a little at a time, a quarter of a pound of loaf-sugar to every pound of fruit-pulp. BoU, skim, and stir if for half an hour; then pom- it on small plates, and dry it before the fire, or in a cool oven. When dry, keep the cheese between folds of white paper. Time, half an hour to boil. Probable cost of goosebeiries, 3d. per poimd. Gooseberry Cream.—Pick the stalks and tops from about two pounds of gi'eenI 266 ) GOO goosoberriofl. Wash, drain, and boil thorn until soft and broken, in a pint and a half of water. Press thoin through a aiuvo, and to every pint of juice add a pound of loaf Bugar and tlio rind and juice of half a lemon. Lot these boil all together for liftoen or twenty minutes, and, when cold, mix with them half a pint of milk, in which an oimco of isingliiss or golatino has boon dissolved. Pour into a mould, and put it in a cool place until linn. This cream should be made the day before it is •wanted. Sufliciont for two quarts of cream. Probable cost, 2s. 6d., with best isinglass. Gooseberry Custard.—Boil a quart of gooseberries in half a pint of water. Add a piece of buttor the size of a walnut. Boil the gooseberries quickly, and, when soft, pulp them through a sieve. Add three-quarters of a pound of sugar and the yolks of four eggs. Stir over the fire until thick, but 'the berries must not boil. Serve in a glass dish, or in custard-glasses. Time, boil till soft—about fifteen minutes. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for seven or eight glasses. Gooseberry Dumpling.—Line a plain round basin or mould with a good suet crust {see Crust, Suet). Pick the tops and stalks from as many gooseberries as will fill it, strew some moist sugar over the top, and cover with, the paste. Pinch in the sides securely, to prevent the juice escaping, and tie in a floured cloth. Plunge the pudding into boiling water, and boil for two or three hours, according to the size of the pudding. Probable cost, lOd. for a pudding large enough to fill a quart mould. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Gooseberry Pool.—Take the tops and stalks from a pound of green gooseberries, and boil them with three-quarters of a pound of sugar and a cupful of water. When quite soft, press them through a coarse sieve, and mix with them, very gradually, a pint of milk; or cream, if a richer dish is required. Serve wlien cold. This old-fashioned dish is whole- some and inexpensive, and, when well made, very agreeable. Time, about twenty minutes to boil the fruit. Probable cost, Qd. for this quantity, if made with milk. Sufficient foy six or seven persons. Gooseberry Jam.—Take the tops and stalks from some light-coloured gooseberries, rather under-ripe, and allow one pound of loaf sugar, and the finely-grated rind and juice of half a lemon, to every pound of fruit. Put the berries into a saucepan, strew the sugar, &c., over them, add a little water, to prevent burn- ing, bring them to a boil, and skim carefully. When the jam has boiled about a quarter of an hour, put a little on a cold plate. If it jellies, even slightly, it may be taken from the fire, and poured into jars. Probable cost, 7d. or 8d. per pound. Gooseberry Jam, Green.—Allow a pound of sugar and half a pint of water to every pound of fruit. Boil the sugar and water together for fifteen minutes. Skim carefully, put in the gooseberries, and let them simmer gently, stirring all the time, until the jam will set when a little is put on a plate. This will be in about forty-five minutes after it lias come to the boil. Pour into jars. Cover with brandiod or oiled paper, and place tissue paper, dipped in strong gum-water, or in white of egg, over the jars. On an average, a pound of jam may be obtained from a pound of fruit. Probable cost, 8d. per pound. Gooseberry Jam, Green (another way). —Cut the stalks and tops from three pounds of green goosebemes. Bruise them slightly, put them into a preser\'ing-pan, and let them boil for seven or eight minutes, stirring all the time, to prevent them sticking to the pan. Mix with them two pounds and a half of powdered loaf sugar, bring them quickly to the boil, then simmer them gently for three-quartei-s of an hour. A pound of jam may bo obtained from about a pound of fruit. Probable cost, 7d. or 8d. per pound. Gooseberry Jam, Green (another way). —Wash and drain the gooseberries, and put them into a preserving-pan, with a gill of water to every pound of gooseberries. Stir them until they are soft, then press them through a coarse sieve, with the back of a wooden spoon or a jelly-pot. Weigh the pulp, and allow three- quarters of a pound of sugar to every pound of fruit. Boil the sugar with as much water as will just moisten it, and boil it until it is thick. Add the gooseberry pulp, and simmer gently, stirring it now and again. When it sets, or stiffens when a little is put on a plate, put it at once into jars. Time, about forty minutes to boil. Probable cost, 7d. or 8d. per pound. Gooseberry Jam, Red.—Take the tops and stalks from the gooseberries, and allow three pounds of sugar to every four pounds of fruit. It is a great improvement to add a pound of red currants to everj^ three pounds of gooseberries. Boil the fruit. Keep it well stirred, to prevent it burning, and as soon Sls, the berries begin to break, add the sugar. Let them boil for half an hour, or until the jam wiU set when a little is put on a plate. If it will not do this at the end of half an hour, it must boil longer. Pour it into jars, and cover closely, in the usual way. Sufficient, a pound of fruit, &c., for a pound of jam. Probable cost, 7d. or 8d. per pound. Gooseberry Jam, Red (another way).— Take equal weights of fruit and sugar. Pick the tops and stalks from the fruit, and make a slit with a needle in each gooseberry. Allow a small tea-cupful of water to each pound of sugar, and boil the water and sugar together for ten minutes. Put in the fruit, and boil gently, until the skins look clear. Drain off the ber- ries, and put them into jars, boil the syrup until it will set, pour it over the fruit, and, when cool, tic up in the usual way. Time, about forty minutes to boil the sjTup. Pro- bable cost,"7d. or 8d. per pound jar. Gooseberry Jam, Red (another way).— Allow a pint of red currant juice, prepared as for red currant jelly, and three pounds of loaf sugar to every four pounds of gooscbenncs. Put the sugar "and the juice into a preserving- pan, and boil for five minutes after the sugar isGOO GOO ( 267 ) dissolved. Add the gooseberries, and boil all gently together for forty minutes. Pour out the contents of the pin, and on the following day put the berries into jars, boil the syrup for a quarter of an hour, and pour it over the fruit. Cover closely. Probable cost, 9d. per pound jar. Sufficient, a pint and a half of fruit fer a pound of jam. (Jooseberry Jam, White or Yellow. —Choose sound ripe gooseben-ies, which have been gathered on a dry day. Pick off the tops and stalks, and take equal weights of fruit and sugar. Put the sugar into a preserving-pan, with a cupful of water to every pound. Boil for ten minutes, then add the fruit, and when the berries have once boiled, simmer gently until they are sufficiently cooked. This may be ascertained in the usual way, by putting a little on a plate, and if it jellies it is done enough. Pour into jars, cover with brandied or oiled paper, and tissue-paper dipped either in gum-water or the unbeaten white of an egg. Time, three-quarters of an hour to boil the fruit. Sufficient, a pint and a half of fruit for a pound of jam. Gooseberry Jelly.—Choose ripe, and perfectly sound gooseberries,-gathered on a dry day. Pick them, put them into a preserving- pan, and simmer them gently until they yield their juice readily. Strain them through a sieve, and afterwards through a jeUy-bag, but on no account squeeze the fruit. If left moist the gooseberries may, with the addition of some sugar and a few red currants, be made into jam, for puddings, &c.; or it may be made into gooseberry paste (see Gooseberry Paste). Weigh the juice, boil it quickly for a quarter of an hour, then add three poimds of pounded loaf sugar to every four pounds of juice. When the sugar is dissolved, boil together for five minutes, then pour into jars, and cover securely. It is a great improvement to add a pound of red or white currant juice to every three pounds of goose- berry juice. Gooseberry Jelly, Green.—Cut off the tops and stalks from some ripe gooseberries. Put them into a preser\'ing-pan, with three- quarters of a pint of water to every pound of fruit, and simmer gently until they are well broken. Strain through a jelly-bag, without squeezing the fruit. Weigh the juice, and boU it rapidly for a quarter of an hour. Mix with it an equal weight of loaf sugar, and boil together until it will stiffen. Skim carefully, and pour into jars. Probable cost, 9d. per half-pound jar. Sufficient, a pound of gooseberries will give on an average nearly three-quarters of a pint of jeUy. Gooseberry, Mock.—Rhubarb may be used instead of gooseberries in making sauce for fish. It should be boiled until quite tender sweetened, pressed through a sieve, and then used in the same way as gooseberries. Gooseberry Paste.-When the juice has been gently drawn from gooseberries for iellv, the fruit may be made into paste for dessert, &c. Weigh the pulp, put it into a preser^-ing-pan, and boil It until it comes up iA a mass^ with the spoon, leaving the saucepan dry. Lift it from the fire, and mix with it some pounded loaf sugar, allowing half a pound of sugar to every pound of pulp, weighed before boiling. A\Tien- well mixgd, return it to the saucepan, and boil twenty minutes longer. It must be stirred unceasingly or it will bum. Put it into jelly jars, and cover securely in the usual way^ Time, about one hour to boil the pulp, twenty minutes to boil with the sugar. Gooseberry Pudding, Baked.— Pick the heads and stalks off the gooseberries,, and put the berries into a jar. Place this jar in a saucepan of water, and let it boil until the- fruit is soft enough to pulp. Press it through a sieve, and to every pint of pulp add an ounce and a half of fresh butter, four ounces of finely- grated bread-crumbs, a quarter of a pound of sugar, and three well-beaten eggs. The latter- should not be added until the pudding is cooL Pour the mixture into a buttered dish, and bake- in a moderate oven. Strew sifted sugar over- the pudding before serving. It may be eaten either hot or cold. If a richer pudding is- required, Savoy biscmts may be substituted for- the bread-crumbs, and the edge of the dish may- be lined with puff paste. Time, about half ani hour to bake. Probable cost, lOd, if made witli bread. Sufficient for five persons. Gooseberry Sauce, for Mackerel. —Cut the tops and stalks from half a pint of green gooseberries. Boil them until tender, press them through a sieve, and mix them with half a pint of melted butter. Yarious seasonings are used for this sauce—such as grated ginger, or grated lemon-rind, grated nutmeg, a little pounded sugar, or cayenne pepper. A wine- glassful of sorrel or spinach-juice is a decided improvement. The gooseberries are often, sent to table mashed and flavoured, without, being mixed with the melted butter. Time,, about forty minutes to prepare. Sufficient, for a pint of sauce. Probable cost, 4d. Gooseberry Souffl^ (a pretty supper dish).—Pick the gooseberries, and boil them with a liberal allowance of sugar until tender. Press them through a coarse sieve, and put the pulp into a glass dish. Let it grow cold, then pom- over it a good custard. This may be made -with the yolks of eggs, and the whites may be beaten till firm and cooked as described under the heading, Eggs as Snow. The ap- pearance is improved by colouring half the white of egg with a few drops of cochineal.. Time, about three-quarters of an hour to boil a. quart of gooseberries till they are tender. Sufficient, a quart of gooseberries and a pint, and a half of custard for six or eight persons Probable cost, Is. 4d. Gooseberry Tart.—Pick off the tops and' stalks of the gooseberries. Put them into a pie-dish, pile them high in the centre, strew a< httle sugar over them, and add a table-spoon-■ ful of water. Line the edge of the dish A^th ai good crust, put on the cover, and bake in a> brisk oven Strew a little powdered suffar over before sending the tart to table. A little cream, or custard is a gi-eat improvement to this didu An ample aUowance of sugar is required forr gooseberries, especially when thev are partiaUy?GOO GRA ( 268 ) ripe. ITio smoU of goosuborry tart, wo may observe, by tho way, oxactly rosomblos that of tlie true forget-me-not. Two pintH and a half of gooseberi-ios will make a pie for four or five jiersons. Proljiible coHt, 9d. Tijiio to bake, thnv-qviartors of an liour. Gooseberry Trifle.—Cut a quarter of a pound of Savoy caked into thin slices, and place tliem at tho bottom of a deep glass dish. Pour over thorn a littlo sherry, bmndy, or whiskey, and let them soak until soft. Boil half a pint of water with a pound of loaf sugar for ton minutes. Put in a pint and a half of green gooseberries, picked, washed, and drained. Lot them boil till they aro tender, but unbroken, and, when cool, place them on the Savoy cake. Make a pint and a half of good plain custard, nicely flavoured with lemon or vanilla. Pom- it over the gooseberx'ies, and ornament with a little whipped cream, or tho beaten white of egg. Time, about an hour and a half to prc- jwvre. This dish is better made three or. four hours before it is wanted. Sufficient for a .supper dish for six or eight persons. Probable cost, about Is. 8d., exclusive of the wine or 'brandy. Gooseberry Turnovers.—Make some ;good light crust. Roll it out two or three times, then leave it a quarter of an inch in thickness. Stamp it out in rounds with a cup, plate, or small basin, and lay a few gooseberries, which have been stewed with sugar, on one half ■of each round. Turn the other half over the fruit, fasten the edges securely, and bake on buttered tins in a moderate oven. Serve on a napkin, with sifted sugar. Time, about a (piarter of an hour to bake. Probable cost. Id. each. Gooseberry Vinegar (excellent for pick- ling).—Pick and bruise a quart of ripe goose- berries. Put them into a bowl, and mix with them three quarts of spring water which has been boiled and grown cold. Let them remain for two days, stiixing frequently ; then strain, and add two pounds of sifted sugar to each gallon of liquid. Put this into a cask, and with it a piece of toasted bread, dipped in yeast. Put a piece of muslin over the bunghole, to keep out the flies, and set it in a warm place, but not in the sun. The vinegar may be bottled in nine months. Probable cost, Is.. 2d. per gallon. Sufficient for a quart of vinegar. Gooseberry Water.—Bruise the fruit, and press out the juice through a coarse sieve. Mix with it an equal quantity of water. Boil and filter the liquid. Sweeten it according to taste, and add a little lemon-juice. This will be a refreshing and agreeable beverage, if not made too sweet, which is a common fault. The exact amount of sugar required cannot be given, as it depends upon the acidity of the fruit. Time, a quarter of an hour to prepare. 7'robable cost, 4d. per quart. Gooseberry Wine, Effervescing.— Cut the tops and stiilks from some sound green . gooseberries; bruise them thoroughly, and add 8 quart of cold spring water for every pound of fruit. Leave them for three or four days, stirring frequently. Strain through a sieve, and add three pounds of loaf sugar to every gallon of liquid. Wlion tho sugar is dissolved, put tho liquid into a cask, with a bottle of gin and a quarter of an ounce of isinglass to every five gallons of wine. It will, in all probability, bo ready to bottle in six months ; but if not quite clear it must remain longer. The gooseberries sliould be taken when fully grown, before they begin to turn ripe. Probable cost, is. 8d. per gallon, exclusive of the spirit. Gooseberry Wine, StilL—Pick and brui.s(; the fruit, and jiut it in a large tub. Let it stand twenty-four liours, then drain off the juice, and add a quart of lukewann water to every gallon of gooseberries. Let this stand twelve houi's. Mix tlie water with the juice, and add twelve pounds of loaf sugar to five gallons of liquid. Let it ferment well. The temperature should be in proportion to the ripeness of the fruit. If necessary, the liqmd should be placed near the fire. In two or three days it will be ready for the cask. Put it into the cask with two quarts of brandy to five gal- lons of liquid. Bung it well. To be in perfec- tion, gooseberry wine should not be bottled for five years; but, if required, it may be used at tho end of twelve months. Probable cost. Is. 8d. per gallon, exclusive of the brandy. Gotham Pudding.—Dissolve a' piece of saleratus the size of a small nut in a table- spoonful of hot water, and mix -with it a break- fast-cupful of milk, three weU-beaten eggs, and two table-spoonfuls of flour. When quite smooth, add a pinch of salt, and four ounces of candied citron, cut into thin slices. Beat thoroughly for ten minutes, pour the mixture into a buttered mould, tie the mould in a floured cloth, and boil for an hour and a half. Turn out, and serve with wine sauce. Pro- bable cost, 8d. Sufficient for four persons. Graham Cakes.—Make a dough with some Graliam meal and as much boiling milk as it will take, and yet be roUed out. Add a little salt, and roll out the dough three-quarters of an inch thick. Cut it into rounds, and bake in a very hot oven, when the cakes will be light and puft'y; if it is not sufficiently hot, they will be very heavy. Time, ten or twelve minutes to bake. Sufficient, about a quart of boiling milk to half a pint of meal. Grandmamma's Pickle.—Take a sound white cabbage and a young cauliflower. DiN'ide the latter into small sprigs, and cut the cab- bage into thin shi'cds, in the same way as red cabbage is cut for pickling. Spread them out on separate dishes, and cover them with salt. Let them remain forty-eight hours, then set the pieces of cauliflower on a sieve, and let them drain before the fire. Squeeze the salt from the cabbage with the hands, and pu the cabbage and cauliflower in layers into pick o-bottles or jars. Boil as much vinegar as will amply cover them, allowing an oimce of whole gmgcr, broken into pieces, half an ounce of mustard- seed, and half an ounce of pepper, to every ' quart of vinegar. Let thesp ingredients boU together for two or three minutes, and, when cold, pour them into the bottles. A lablc- spoonf ul of turmeric may be mixed with a httlo( 269 ) GRA QRA cold vinegar, and added to the rest wtile boil- ing. Put the spices at the top of the pickles, aud cover the jiirs closely. Fresh vinegar must be added when necessary. Probable cost, Is. per pint. Granito Claret.—Put the thin rind of two oranges in half a pint of water. Let it soak for two hours, strain it, and boil the water with half a pound of sugar to a clear syrup. Add the stmined juice of six oranges, a cupiul of water, and a pint bottle of claiet. Put the mixture into wide-mouthed bottles, cork them, and move them round in the ice. As the imxturo freezes it should be loosened from the sides of the bottles, and then put into claret-glasses. Sufficient for two pints and a half. Granito Punch, Iced.—Kub the yellow rind of an orange and of half a lemon upon two or three lumps of sugar. Mix with them three wine-glassfuls of green tea, and the same of brandy, rum, syi-up, maraschino, and pine- apple syrup. Add the juice of two lemons, the juice of an orange, and a pint bottle of Champagne. When well mixed, freeze as usual, and serve in glasses. Time, about half an hour to prepare. Sufficient for a quart. Granito, Roman.—Mx a pint and a half of strong coffee with a pint and a half of syrup. Strain through a silk sieve into wide-mouthed decanters, and freeze as directed in the recipe for granito claret. Serve in cofEee- cups or glasses. Sufficient for three pints. Granito Sherry. — Make a syrup with haK a pint of water and half a pound of sugar. Soak in this the thin rind of two lemons, and, in two hours, strain through a silk sieve, and add a cupful of water, the strained juice of six lemons, and a pint bottle of sherry. Freeze as directed for gi-anito claret, and serve in glasses. Sufficient for two pints and a half. Grapes.—Grapes are grown extensively in France, and made into wine. Those grown in this country are chiefly used for dessert, and are particularly welcome in cases of illness, being both refreshing and wholesome. The best way to keep them is to pick out all that are in the least decayed, and to pass a thread thiough the stalk of each bunch, then seal the end of the sjtalk, to keep it from drying, and place the fruit gently in a bag, made of thin paper. The mouth of the bag should then be closed, and secured with string. The grapes should be hung up by the thread to the ceiling of a cool room, and preserved at as low a tempera- ture as possible until required for use. Grape, Green, Marmalade. — Pick the grapes, put them into a saucepan, and barely cover them with boiling water. Let them simmer for eight or ten minutes, but do not let them break. Take them out, drain them, let them cool, then press them through a coarse sieve, and add a pound of loaf sugar to every pound of pulp. Boil them gently for twenty miniites, pour into jars, cover with bran died and gummed paper, and keep in a cool place. Sufficient, one pound of fruit for one pound of jam. Probable cost, Is. 2d. per pound. Grape Isinglass Jelly.—Dissolve one ounce of isinglass or gelatine in a cupful of water. Put a pound and a half of ripe purple grapes into a saucepan. Bruise them with the- back of a wooden spoon until the juice flows freely. Strain them without pressure, through two or three thicknesses of muslin, and, when tho juice is clear, boil it, with half a pound of loaf sugar and the dissolved isinglass, for ten minutes. Add two table-spoonfuls of brandy,, pour it into an oiled mould, and put it into a. cool place until firmly set. If the jelly is not clear, it may be clarified in the usual way. (-Sec- Calf's Foot Jelly.) Probable cost, 2s. 6d., exclu^ sive of the brandy. Grape Jelly.—Pick some purple grapes,, put them into a saucepan, and bruise them, gently until the juice flows freely from them. Strain, without squeezing them, two or three- times through thick muslin, and, when clear,, boil the juice rapidly for twent}'- minutes. Add', a pound of loaf sugar to each pound of juice,, stir it until dissolved, and boil till a little put. on a plate will set. Put the jelly into jars, andl cover with oiled or brandied paper, and after- wards with gummed paper. Probable cost of grapes, when plentiful, lOd. or Is. per pound. A quart of grapes should yield about one pint', of juice. Grape-water Ice.—Take one pound of ripe Muscatel grapes. Rub them patiently through a fine hair sieve, and when the juice is all pressed through, pour a cupful of cold spring water over the dregs, in order to get all the goodness from them, and to prevent waste. Add one pint of clarified syrup and the strained juice of a fresh lemon. Freeze and finish in the usual way. Grape Wine, Sparkling.—Take the grapes before they are fully ripe, put stalka and fruit into a convenient-sized tub, delicately clean, bruise them until every berry is broken, and to every pound of fruit add a quart of cold water. Leave them for tha-oe days, Stir- ling them twice or three times every day. Strain and add thi-ee pounds and a quarter of lump sugar to every gallon of liquid. When this is dissolved, put the wine at once into the cask, which should be kept full to the bung. It is well to reserve half a gallon f oi- the purpose of filling it up as the fermentation subsides. In ten days add one pint of brandy and a quarter of an ounce of isinglass to everj' five gallons of wine. Keep the cask in a cool cellar. The wine should be bottled in champagne bottles when the vines are in bloom the following summer, and the corks must be wired down. Time, a fortnight to make. Pro- bable cost, 4s. per gallon, exclusive of the brandy. Grapes, Pickled.—Pick the grapes from the stalks. Reject any that are unsound, and put them into a deep jar with as much white- wine vinegar as will amply cover them. Tie them down with a bladder, and keep them in a cool dry place. They will be ready for use in a month. Probable cost of grapes, when plentif uL lOd. to Is. per pound.( 270 ) GBA GBA Grapes, To Preserve.—Tuko four poiuids of griipcs before thoy are fully rijjo. Put thorn on tho firo in a saucepan of cold water, and lot thoin remain until tho water nearly boils, then drain tliom and put them into cold water. Boil four pounds of sugar in two quarts of water, skim it carefully, and, when cold, put the fruit in an enamelled sauce- pan, pour the syrup over it, and let all stand for twenty-four hours, Put tho grapes on tho firo, heat them till the syrup is scalding hot, and put them aside until the next day, then drain off the syi-up, and boil it gently for twenty minutes. Pour it over the grapes, which .should be arranged in a clean saucepan, and bring them once more to the point oi boiling. Put tho preserve into jars, and pom- a little dissolved apple jolly over them. Probable cost of grapes, when plentiful, lOd. or Is. per pound. Grapes, To Preserve in Brandy (for Avinter dessert).—Take some fine bunches of grapes. Look them over carefully, to see that ^ are quite sound, prick each grape in three places, and lay them in deep earthen jars. C)over them with white sugar-candy, crushed to a fine powder, and fill up the jars with brandy. ■Cover the jars securely with a bladder, and keep iu a cool dry place. Gratin.—Gratin is a French forcemeat. It may be made either of the lean part of veal or "the breast and wings of a fowl. Take a calf's Tidder, and boil it gently, ^vith as much water as wm cover it, until sufficiently cooked. Let it ■cool, cut away all the upper part, and divide ■the rest into small pieces, which must be pounded in a mortar until they can be passed through a coarse sieve. Take equal parts of ^eal and cooked liver, cut them into small pieces, and put them in a saucepan with a little salt and pepper, and a table-spoonful of savoury herbs, powdered. Fry them in a little butter for ten minutes, then mince finely, and pound the meat until perfectly smooth, with half the quantitj' of veal udder. If necessary, butter may be substituted for the udder. Pound all thoroughly, and, whilst pounding, add three raw eggs at different times. Make up a small ball of the force- meat, and throw it into boiling water, to try whether it is light and properly seasoned. If it be too firm, add a little water, if too soft, another egg. Probable cost of veal. Is. per pound. Gravy.—Gravies should never be at vari- ance in flavour with the dish which they are to accompany, and in nothing is the skill and judgment of a good cook so much displayed as in their management. They may , be made a source of unceasing expense, or be amply supplied at a merely nominal cost, and in moderate households ought certainly to be made from the bones and trimmings of the joints themselves. Full directions will be given in this work for almost every gravy that can bo required in domestic cookery, but, as a general rule, it should be remembered that the gravy of the meat to be used is always most suit- able to send to table with it. The bones dressed and undressed, the trimmings of meat and the necks and foot of poultry and game should be carefully preserved, and used for making gravy. When these are not sufficient, fresh moat or fresh bones must bo used—the fn.-sher tho better. All superfluous fat should be re- moved before stewing, and the gravy kept in a cool, di-y place, in an earthen pan. Long sinmxoring is required to extract tho full flavour of tho moat; and if any fut is in the gravy after GBAVY STEAIirEa. boiling, it is better left on until the gravy ia required. Gravy should be sent to table hot, and in a tureen, with a very small quantity in the dish with the meat. Nothing can be more xmpleasant than for the carver to find that whilst performing his duties he has bespattered those of his friends who, unfortunately for themselves, were placed near him. Good gravy may be made from the skirts and kidney of beef, the shank bones of mutton, previously soaked, the knuckle of veal or mutton, the shin of beef, a cow-heel, or the liquid in which meat has been boiled. Brown made dishes require savoury gravies, white dishes delicately flavoured ones. Where the flavour of onions is too strong in gravies, it may be lessened by boiling a turnip in it for.a little while. When lean meat is to be made into gravy it should be beaten and scored before stewing. Gravy and Eggs (see Eggs and Gravy). Gravy, Beef. Clear.—Cut two pounds of the shm of beef into small pieces, and fry these over a clear fire until lightly browned, but take care they do not bum. Pour, over them a quart of boiling water, skim thoroughly, and simmer for half an hour. Then add a salt-spoonful of salt, a large onion, sliced and fried, a bunch of parsley and thyme, two cloves, and six or eight peppercorns. Simmer gently for two hours. Strain, and put it aside for use. Remove the fat from the top before heating it. Sufiicient for a pint and a half of gra^-y. Pro- bable cost. Is. Gravy, Beef, for Poultry and Game. —Cut one pound of coarse beef into small pieces, and put these into a saucepan with a salt-spoonful of salt, half a salt-spponful of pepper, a shallot, and a pint of cold water. Simmer gently by the side of the fire for twc hours and a half, then strain, add one table spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and thicker, with a tea-spoonful of arrowroot mixed with a little cold water. Boil once more, and serve as( 271 ) GBA QUA hot as possible. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for one pint of gravy. Gravy, Beef, Plain—Cut some coarse pieces of beef into dice, strew a little salt over them, and put them in a closely-covered sauce- pan, by the side of a gentle fire, until the juice flows from the meat and glazes at the bottom of the pan. Pour in as much boiling stock or water as will cover the meat, and simmer gently for an hour and a half. Probable cost of beef, 8d. per pound. Sufficient, half a pound of beef for a pint of gravy. Gravy, Bon Vivant's Sauce for {sometimes called Epicurean Sauce).—Mince two ounces of shallots very finely, and put them into a bottle with six table-spoonfuls of walnut ketchup, six of mushroom ketchup, four of soy, four of port, a dozen peppercorns, eight cloves, a quai-ter of an ounce of cayenne, .and three-quarters of a pint of vinegar. Cork the bottle closely, and let it remain for three weeks, shaking it occasionally. At the end .of that time strain carefuUy, keep it in bottles securely stoppered, and store for use. A table-spoonful will flavour half a pint of sauce sufficiently for the taste of most persons. Probable cost. Is. per pint. Sufficient for a pint and a half of sauce. Gravy, Brown, Cheap and Good- Toast a slice of bread on both sides until hard and darkly browned, but it must not bum. Cut two large onions into thin slices, fry them in a little dripping or butter till brightly browned, and pour over them a quart of boiling water or stock. Put in the toast, and any trimmings of meat, or poultry, or bones from dressed joints, chopped into small pieces, that are to be had, with a bunch of savoury herbs. Simmer gently until the gravy is thick and good. Strain, add salt and pepper, and a table-spoon- ful of mushroom ketchup, and put aside for use. Time, about three hours to simmer. Probable cost, 4d., exclusive of the bones. Sufficient for one pint of gravy. Gravy, Brown, Boux for Thicken- ing.—Put a quarter of a pound of fresh butter into a scrupulously clean saucepan, melt it slowly, and add very gradually half a poimd . of flour. The flour should be shaken in from a dredging-box, and stirred with a wooden spoon until the roux is perfectly smooth and a bright brown colour. The edge of the spoon should be pressed rather heavily on the bottom of the saucepan, to prevent burning, which would cer- tainly spoil the roux. Though this thickening is best when freshly made, it will keep for a long time if poured into jars, and the surface kept entire. It is an improvement to make it with browned flour—that is, flour which has been kept in a slow oven imtil it is lightly browned all through. When this is used, the roux need not be so long on the fire. It may be used with either hot or cold gravy. If the gravy be hot, the roux should be moistened gradually with it off the fire ; if cold, it should be stirred on the fire till the gravy boils. Time, about an hour and a half. Probable cost, 6d. A dessert-spoonful of roux will thicken a pint of gravy. Gravy, Brown, Soup (made from bones and trinmiings).—Take the bones of dressed meat—beef is the best—which weighed before cooking about twelve pounds. Break them up into small pieces, and put these into a saucepan, with five quarts of cold water. Bring the liquid to a boil, skim carefully, and simmer gently, but continuously, for six hours. Strain through a sieve, and leave the soup until the next day. Eemove the fat from the top, leave any sediment there may be at the bottom, and pour the soup gently into a clean saucepan, with two carrots, one turnip, three onions, all sliced, a head of celery, or half a drachm of pounded celery-seed, tied in muslin, a bundle of sweet herbs, and eight peppercorns. Bring it to a boil, skim it carefully, and add a dessert- spoonful of salt, which wiU assist the scum in rising. Draw it to the side of the fire, and simmer gently for two hours. Strain it two or three times, and, to clear it, stir into it when hot, the whites of two eggs, whisked thoroughly, and mixed with four tea-spoonfuls of cold water, and afterwards with a little of the soup. Beat this into the soup over the fire, and keep whisk- ing till it boils. Skim carefully till it is quite clear. Add three table-spoonfuls of Liebig'a Extract of Meat, and, if necessary, a little browning {see Browning), but great care must be taken with this, or the flavour of the soup will be spoilt. This soup' is wholesome, nou- rishing, and cheap, and though it cannot be said that a soup which costs 4d. per quart is quite equal to one which costs Is. 4d., yet, if the directions are closely followed, the result will be decidedly satisfactorj'. If any lady would take the trouble to try it for herself, she would see that it can be done, but, unfortunately, there exists amongst ordinary domestic servants such a prejudice against anything economical that, if the soup were left to them, there is a danger that it would not be properly attended to, and, perhaps, be boiled hard one hour and stopped entirely another, or, what is worse, not carefully skimmed as it is coming to a boil. It is a good plan to brown a small quantity of meat— say a quarter of a pound of beef and a quarter of a pound of veal—draw out the juice with a little cold water, and then simmer these with the bones. The soup will keep better if vegeta- bles are not boiled in it until it is about to be used. It should certainly :be made the day before it is wanted for use. Probable cost, about 4d. per quart. Sufficient to make two quarts of soup. Gravy, Brown, Soup (made fi-om fresh meat).—Take half a pound of lean ham, two pounds of the shin of beef, and two poimds of veal. Cut the meat from the bones, break the latter into small pieces, and, if there be any marrow, lay it at the bottom of a deep saucepan. If there be no marrow, use a quarter of a pound of butter. Put in the meat (which should be cut up) and bones, cover closely, and" place the saucepan on the fire. When well browned on one side, turn the meat over on the other, and take care it does not bm-n. When the meat is thoroughly browned, add a pint of cold water to draw out the juice. In a quarter of an hourQRA QRA ( 272 ) add throo quarts of boiling water, with two carrots, ono tiniiip, tliroo or four onions, all slieoil, a hoiid of colory, or half a draclnn of poundwl c'olory-sood, tied in muwlin, a hunch of 8W(>ot horhs, and a dozen popporconis. Bring the soup to a boil, romovo the scum carofully as it rises, and add two tea-spoonfuls of salt, which will assist it in rising. When well skiuunod, draw the saucepan to tho side of tho fire, and lot its contents siinmor gently, but continuously, for four hours. Take it off, and strain the soup through a jolly-bag. Lot it stand until tho no.xt day. Lift tho fat off tho top in a cako, and, when pouring the soup olf to warm, bo careful not to disturb tho sediment. Strain it again, if nocossary ; but if tho directions have boon followed, the soup will bo clear nud bright, with a brown tinge. It "will keep bettor if vegetables are not boiled with it until it is about to bo used. This soup forms tho basis of all other kinds. If through any mischance it should not be clear, see direc- tions for Clarifying Gravy. It is better made the day before it is wanted, so that the fat can be entirely removed. Probable cost. Is. 4d. per quart. Sufficient for three quarts of soup. Gravy, Colouring and Flavouring. —In coloiu'ing gravies the same directions may be followed which have been given for colouring soups (see Colouring). When this is done, how- ever, care must be taken that the flavour given by it is not sufficiently strong to be detected. When gravy is made from stock, all danger of this may be removed by combining the colouring and flavouring. Prepare the stock separately. Set it aside, and put a piece of butter about the size of a walnut into a saucepan, with two ounces of uncooked lean ham, chopped small, a shallot, finely minced, a sprig of thyme or mar- joram, a sprig of parsley, and three cloves. Cover the pan closely, and let these stew slowly for half an hour. Shake the pan several times to prevent the meat burning, and when the side of the saucepan is brightly browned, add three- quarters of a pint of unflavoured stock. Boil aU together another half-hour, thicken, if necessary, with a tea-spoonful of flour, add salt and pepper, and strain before serving. Probable cost, 4d., exclusive of the stock. Sufficient for nearly three-quarters of a pint of gravy. Gravy, Cow-heel (clear).—Put a cow- heel, which has been scalded and properly pre- pared, but not boiled, into a saucepan, with an onion, a sprig of thyme, a blade of mace, half a dozen peppercorns, and three pints of cold water. Skim it carefully, and, when the scum ceases to rise, cover the pan closely, and simmer gently by the side of the fire for three hours. Strain airefully, and put aside until cold; remove the fat from tho top, and ponr off the gravy, being careful to leave the sediment un- disturbed. Probable cost, one cow-heel, 6d. Sufficient for a pint and a half of gravy. Gravy, Eggs Poached in {nee Eggs Poached in (iravy). Gravy. English, Brown.— Cut six ounces of lean ham into square pieces, and fry ' a nico brown. When done, remove them from I tho frying-pun into a stewpan. Then fry two poimdij of nock or shin of beef, ligli^ly floured, also a middle-sized onion, or two or thjee sliallots. Pkco tliom ail together in tho stew- pan with tho ham, and cover witli about two pints of stock ; skim as tho hquid boils, and add salt, a few cloves, peppercorns, a blade of mace, a small bunch of herljs, a carrot, and a head of celery. Let all lioil till reduced in quantity to one-half; then strain, and wlien (luito cold, tiiko olf tlie fat. When re<iuiied, heat tho gravy again, and flavoui- with th<; sauce best adapted to the dish for which it is intended. If the gr?ivy be properly boiled, it will bo thick enough. Half this quantity is sufliciont at a time, and careful housekeepers would reduce the quantity of moat. Time, from throe to four hours. Probable cost of beef, about 8d. per pound. Sufficient for one pint of gravy. Gravy Espagnole (a highly flavoured brown gravy).—As this gravy will keep good for three or four days, and is frequently required in domestic cookery, it is well to make more than will be used at one time, and put it aside until wanted. It should be looked at every day, and will keep longer if it is boiled occa- sionally. Put a piece of butter the size of a large egg into a stewpan, and, when it is melted, place on it a moderate-sized onion, cut into slices. Turn these over until they are lightly browned, then add a quarter of a pound of the lean of ham or bacon, in dice (undressed), a large carrot, scraped or cut into small pieces,, two sprigs of parsley, one of thyme, a quarter of a tea-spoonful of finely-chopped lemon-rind, a dozen peppercorns, a blade of mace, and a bay-leaf. Pour in a cupful of cold water and shake the pan, or stir it occasionally, over a moderate fire for a quarter of an horn-, until the ingredients are brightly brovNmed. Add very gradually a pint of good stock, and simnier gently for three-quarters of an hour. Stmin, skim off the fat, and the gravy will be ready for use. Salt must be added, if necessarj', but this will depend upon the saltness of the ham. "When no stock is at hand, half a pound of lean beof may be cut into small squares, and fried with the rest, but when this is done a pint and a half of water should be added, and the gra-sy sim- mered an hour and a half. Another plan is to dissolve half a tea-spoonful of Liebig's ex- tract in the gravy. If a rich gravy is required a glass of sherrj' or Madeira and a table-spoon- ful of ketchup may be put into the saucepan a few minutes beifore it is taken fi-om the fire. To thicken the gravy, dissolve an ounce of butter in a saucepan, mix witli it an ounce of flour, and stir it with a wooden spoon until brightly browned, add gradually the strained gravy, and boil. Sufficient for nearly a pint of 'gravy. Probable cost, 8d. per pint. Gravy Espagnole, made without Meat.—Cut two large onions into thick .'^lici^s, and fry them in an ounce and a lialf of butter until brightly browned: Put with them a scraped carrot, two sprigs of parsley,.( 273 ) GRA QRA one of thyme, a quarter of a tea-spoonful of chopped lemou-riud, a bay-leaf, throe or four cloves, a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, half a tea-spoonful of anchovy essence, a thick crust of broad, toasted brown and hard, but not burnt, six peppercorns, and half a salt- spoonful of sjilt. Pour over these ingredients a broiikfast-cupful oi water and a breakfast- cupful of beer. Simmer gently for half an hour, strain, and serve. Thicken with flour and butter, if required. Probable cost, 5d. Suffi- cient for a pint of gravy. Gravy, Essence of Ham for.—A ham bone is always considered a valuable addition to the stock-pot, but it may be used to greater advantage by making of it an essence with which to flavour sauces and gravies. Cut from it very carefully all the little pieces of meat, Poimd these in a mortar, and put them into a saucepan with the bone broken small, a dozen peppercorns, a bunch of thyme and parsley, and a pint and a half of good beef stock. Simmer gently by the side of the fii-e for a couple of hours, or until the flavour is thoroughly ex- tracted. Put the liquid into a bottle, and set aside for use. Probable cost, about 3d., ex- clusive of the ham bone. Sufficient for a pint of essence. Gravy for Boiled Meat.—Boiled meat is usually sent to table with a little of the liquid in which the meat was cooked. When a varia- tion is desii-ed, haK a pint of the liquid may be thickened with a little flour and butter, and flavoured with a table-spoonfnl of finely- chopped pickled gherkins or walnuts, and a dessert-spoonful of minced parsley. A tea- spoonful of mustard mixed with a small quantity of vinegar may then be added. This sauce should, of course, be served in a tureen, not put on the same dish as the meat. Time, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, 3d. Suffi- cient, haK a pint for four or five persons. Gravy for Curried Fish.—Melt a piece of butter the size of a small egg in a saucepan, and fry two sliced onions in it until lightly browned. Drain them from the fat, and mix with them a pint and a half of good stock, and, if the flavour is liked, two sharp apples, pared and cored. Simmer gently until the onions axe sufficiently tender to be pressed through a sieve, and, after this has been done, boU once more, thicken the gravy with a table-spoonful of flour and a table-spoonful of curry-powder, mixed with a little cold water, and add a pinch of salt. Boil for half aii hour, and just before serving add two table-spoonfuls of good cream. Time, an hour and a quarter. Pro- bable cost, 5d. Sufficient for a pint and a half of gravy. Gravy for Cutlets.—Put a piece of butter the size of a walnut into a saucepan, and, when melted, fry two sliced onions in it until they are lightly browned. Add gradually one pint of good stock, half a dozen peppercorns, two sprigs of parsley, three or four cloves, md a crust of broad toasted brown and hard on both sides, but not burnt. Simmer gently for one hour, then strain, and thicken the gravy with a little butter and flour. Add salt ' to taste, and a table-spoonful of mushroom or walnut ketchup. A little browning may be added, if necessary. If no stock is at hand, a tea-spoonful of Liebig's extract may be dis- solved in some warm water and used instead. Probable cost, 44. Sufficient for nearly a pint of gravy. Gravy for Cutlets (another way).— After the cutlets have been fried, lift ithem out of the pan, and put them in the oven on a hot dish. Iilix a table-spoonful of flour very smoothly with a table-si)Oonful of the fat from, the cutlets, and stir it over the fire with a wooden spoon till it is lightly browned; add haK a pint of boiling water, a little salt and pepper, and a table-spoonful of Harvey's sauce,, or ketchup, or a table-spoonful of finely-minced gherkins, walnuts, capers, or any favouiite pickle. When a rich sauce is wanted, a wine- glassful of port may be added. Serve in a tureen. Time, five minutes. Probable cost, 3d., exclusive of the wine. Sufficient for on& pound of cutlets. Gravy for Ducks.—Put the giblets into- a stewpan with a large onion, two or three sage-leaves, a salt-spoonful of salt, haK a salt- spoonful of pepper, and two pints of stock.. Simmer gently for two hours. Strain the' gravy, thicken it with a table-spoonful of flour, mixed smoothly with a little cold water, boil once more for a quarter of an hour, and. serve in a tiireen. A glass of port or claret is an improvement. Probable cost, 2d., exclu- sive of the wine. 'Sufficient for a ])int and. a half of gravy (see mso Gravy foi* Groose or Duck). Gravy for Fish Pies, &c.—Take any common fish that you may have, or can easily obtain, such as eels, flounders, or pike, or a mix- ture of one or two kinds. Cut them into small pieces, and put them into a stewpan. To two^ pounds of fish put a pint and a half of water, a little pepper and salt, two or tkrce bunches of parsley, a sprig of marjoram, and the same of thyme, a blade of mace, and a crust of bread, toasted till brown and hard. Simmer gently for an hour or more, then strain; thicken the^ gravy with a little flour and butter, and a tea-spoonful of anchovy essence, or two or three anchovies pounded. If brown gravy is- wanted, the fish must be fried before it is stewed. The probable cost depends upon the- price of the fish, which is very fluctuating. Sufficient for a little more than a pint of gravy. Gravy for Fowls, Cheap.—Take two ounces of lean ham, cut them into dice, and fry them in a very little butter until brightly bro-WTied.. Pour over them gradually haK a pint of stock* and add six peppercorns, a bunch of parsley, a bay-leaf, and haK a sUce of bread, toasted brown and hard, but not burnt. Simmer gently for three-quar'erd of an hour, strain, add a pinch of salt, if necessary, and serve as hot as possible. Probable cost, 4d. (See Gravy made without Meat for Fowls.) Gravy for Game.—Melt a piece of butter the size of a small egg in a saucepan, and mix with It very smoothly a table-spoonful of floui-.( 274 ) GRA GRA When lightly hrownod, add a cupful of good fltock, half a tca-spoouful of mixed mustard, a tiny pinch of cayouuo, m much powdered mace as will stand on the point of a knife, and a dessert-spoonful of lemon-juice. Boil for twenty mmutes. Add a wine-glassful of sherry, and servo in a tui-eon. Probable cost, 3d., exclusive of the wine, fciuiiicient for half a pint of gi"avy. Gravy for Goose or Duck—Put a piece of butter the size of a small egg into a saucepan, and fry in it, until lightly browned, two onions, sliced, and half a tea-spoonful of powdered sage. Add a cupful of good brown gravy, a grain of cayenne, half a tea-spoonful of pepper, and a pinch of salt, if the gravy has not been already seasoned. Simmer gently for a quarter of an hour, then strain, return the gravy to the saucepan, and add a tea-spoonful of mixed mustard, and a wine-glassful of port or claret. Make the gravy as hot as possible, with- out boiling, after the wine is added. Time, altogether, about half an hour. Probable cost, exclusive of the wine, 3d. Sufficient for half a pint of gravy. Gravy for Grills and Broils.—Rub a table-spoonful of flour into an ounce of good butter. Mix with it half a pint of good strong stock, a table-spoonful of ketchup, the juice and rind of a quarter of a lemon, a tea-spoon- ful of made mustard, haK the quantity of the essence of anchovies, half a tea-spoonful of pepper, three grains of caj'^enne, a tea-spoonful of chopped capers, and a shallot, finely minced. Put these ingredients into a saucepan. Let them boil, then simmer gently for five or six minutes, strain, and serve. Probable cost, id. Sufficient for five or six persons. Gravy for Haddock, Baked.—Brown a sliced onion in a little butter, and add gradually a pint of good stock, or a tea-spoon- ful of Liebig's extract of meat dissolved in warm water. Thicken with a table-spoonful of flour, and let the mixture simmer with a bunch of parsley for twenty minutes. Skim off the fat, strain the gra-\y, and add pepper and salt to taste, a little browning, if neces- sary, and a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup. Serve in a tureen. Probable cost, 2d. Sufficient for a pint of gravy. Gravy for Hare.—Thicken half a pint of stock with a dessert-spoonful of flour, mixed smoothly with a small quantity of the liquid at first, and afterwards added to the rest. Let it boil for twenty minutes, then add a table- spoonful of soy, pepper and salt, if necessary, and half a tumbler of port or claret. Send a little of the gravy in the dish with the hare, and the rest in a tureen. Probable cost, exclusive of the wine, 2d. Sufficient for nearly a pint of gravy. Gravy for Hare (another way).—When no stock 18 in the house, procure half a pound of gravy beef, cut it into small pieces, and put it into a saucepan with three-quarters of a pint of water, two sprigs of parsley, one small sprig -of marjoram, and the same of thyme, a large onion, with one clove stuck into it, half a dozen peppercorns* and a piece of bread toasted on both sides. Simmer gently for one hour, then stiuin, tliickcn the gmvy with a dessei-t-spoon- ful of ilour, lot it Ijoil once more for half an liour, add a table-spoonful of soy, and half a tumblerful of port or claret, and serve as before. Probable cost, 8d., uxclusive of the wine. Sufficient for a jjint of gravy. Gravy for Hashes.-Take the bones and trumnings of tlio joint from which the hash is to be made, break the bones into small pieces, put all into a saucepan, and cover with some cold water. Put a qmirter of a drachm of bruised celery-seed, tied in muslin, or two or three of the outside sticks of celery, wliich should always be kept for flavouring puqwses, six peppercorns, four berries of allspice, two sprigs of parsley, one of marjoram, and one of thyme, with a pint and a half of water. Simmer gently for half an hour, then strain. Cut a small onion into slices, and fry it tiU lightly browned in a piece of butter the size of a walnut. Mix in, very smoothly, a table-spoonful of flour, and add gradually the strained gravy. Boil all for twenty minutes, strain once more, add half a tea-spoonful of salt, and any flavouring that may be preferred, such as ketchup, finely- minced pickles, capers, or a wine-glassful of ale or wine. When quite hot, the gravy ia ready for the meat, which should only be in the pan long enough to heat through, and should on no account whatever be allowed to boil. Probable cost, 4d., exclusive of the cold meat. Sufficient for haK a dozen persons. Gravy for Hashes, Cheap.—Divide into small pieces the bones and trimmings of the meat to be hashed, and put them into a saucepan, with as much cold water as will cover them, and to every pint and a half of water add six berries of allspice, six pepper- corns, half a tea-spoonful of pounded celery- seed, tied in muslin, a small bundle of savoury herbs, half a salt-spoonful of salt, and half a slice of bread, toasted on both sides till it is brown and hard, but not burnt. Cover the saucepan closely, and simmer gently for an hour. Cut a good-sized onion into thin slices, and put them into a saucepan with a piece of butter the size of a walnut. Let them remaia over the fire till brightly browned, moving them about to prevent them burning. Mix in very smoothly as much flour as will make a stiflE batter, and add gradually the gr&vj made from the bones and trimmings. Boil gently for a few minutes, to take off the raw taste of the flour, strain it through a coarse sieve, and it is ready for the hash, which, it is, perhaps, scarcely necessary to say, must not be boiled in it, but only weU heated. The gravy is improved by the addition of a table- spoonful of mushroom or walnut ketchup, or Harvey's sauce, or finely-minced pickles. Pro- bable cost, 4d., exclusive of the bones, &c. Sufficient for a pint and a quarter of gravy. Instead of thickening in the way described above, two dessert-spoonfuls of flour; a tea- spoonful of ancho\'j' sauce, and about half a tea-spoonful of made mustard may be mixed smoothly with a little water stirred into the gravy, which should then bs stewed gently twenty minutes longer.GBA GBA Gravy for Minced Veal, Cheap.— Put the trimniings and hones of the veiil iuto a saucepan, with as much water as will cover them. With a pint of water put a small onion, half a tea-spoonful of finely-minced lemon-rind, a small sprig of thj-me, a blade of mace, and half a tea-spoonful of salt. Stew gently for an hour, then strain the gravy, thicken it with a little flour and butter, and add a table-spoonful of cream or milk. The flavour may be varied by the addition of mushroom or walnut ketchup, or the cream may be omitted, and the jillce of half a lemon substituted for it. Probable cost, 4d. per pint. Sufficient for three-quarters of a pint. Gravy for Patties.—Take the bones, Bkin, and trimmings of the meat of which the patties are made, and put them into a jar with as much water as wUl cover them, a little pepper and salt, a bay-leaf, and a shallot, finely- minced. Tie two or three folds of paper over the jar, and place it in a moderate oven for two hours. Strain thejgravy, skim it carefully, let it boil, and it is ready to be put into the patties. If these are made of venison or hare, it is an improvement to dissolve a small quantity of red currant jelly in. the gravy, and to add a little claret. Gravy for Pike, Baked.—IMix a table- spoonful of flour very smoothly with half a pint of stock. Simmer gently, with a minced onion and a sprig of parsley, for twenty minutes, then strain and skim carefully, add pepper and salt to taste, and a dessert-spoonful of ketchup. Drain off the fat from the pan in which the pike has been baked, pour in the boiling liquid, stir it well, let it boil up once more, and serve. If no stock is at hand, a little may be made from gravy beef, any bones and trimmings of meat, or Liebig's extract of meat. Probable cost, about 2d. Sufficient for half a pint of gravy. Gravy for Rissoles. — Take the skin, trimmings, and bones of the meat from which the rissoles have been made. Divide them into small pieces, and put them into a saucepan with a minced onion and a piece of butter the size of a walnut. Turn them about over a quick fire till they are lightly browned, then add a pint of boiling water, a blade of mace, a bunch of parsley, half a dozen peppercorns, and half a slice of toasted bread. Put on the Ud of the saucepan, and simfiier gently for an hour. Strain; thicken the gra^y with a table- spoonful of flour, mixed smoothly with a little cold water, add a table-spoonfiil of ketchup and half a salt-spoonful of salt, boil once more, and serve. Probable cost, 3d. Sufficient for a pint of gravy. Gravv for Roast Meat.—About twenty minutes before the joint is taken from the fire, put a common dish under it, and pour slowly and gradually over the brown parts of the meat two or three table-spoonfuls of boiling water, in which half a tea-spoonful of salt has been dissolved. When it has all dropped into the dish, set it aside, carefully skim off the fat as it rises to the surface, for it is very disagree- able to have bubbles of fat on the top of the gravy in the dish, let it boil, and serve a very small quantity on the dish with the meat, and the rest in a tureen. When a larger quantity of gravy is requii-ed, there is in ordinary house- holds no necessity to purchase gravy-beef in order to obtain it. The trimmings and hard brown uneatable pieces of roasted and broiled meat or poultry should be regularly collected, put into a jar, and covered with boiling water. The next day they should be boiled and strained, and will then be ready for use. The brown liquid thus obtained will be much better than water to put under the joint. Gravy for Roast Venison.—Take three shank-bones of mutton, and put them into a stewpan with a pint of water and six or eight peppercorns, and, after bringing them to a boil, let them simmer gently for two hours. Skim and strain, add a pinch of salt, a table- spoonfiJ. of red currant jelly, and a glass of port or claret. BoU up once, and the gravy is ready to serve. If preferred, a table-spoonfxil of walnut ketchup may be substituted for the jelly and wine. Probable cost, about 8d., ex- clusive of the wane. Sufficient for nearly a pint of gravy. Gravy for Roast Venison (another way).—Boil a quarter of a pint of good French vinegar with two oimces of poimded loaf sugar, and as soon as the latter is dissolved, pour it into a tureen. A well-tinned saucepan should be used in making this gravy. Time, thi-ee or four minutes. Probable cost, 2d. Sufficient for four or five persons. i Gravy from Liebig's Extract of i Meat.—Excellent and nouiiehing grecvy may be made from the extract of meat com- monly known as Liebig's Extract of Meat. This valuable preparation cannot be too highly prized. As a matter of economy alone, it ought to be in every home. It is very good if simply dissolved in a little boiling water, and mixed with a rather liberal allowance of salt, but it may be converted into superior gra-vy, by attending to the following diiections:—Cut two ounces of the lean of undressed ham into dice, and put them into a saucepan with a piece of butter the size of a wahiut, two shallots, finely minced, two cloves, a blade of mace, two sprigs of parsley, one of sweet marjoram, and one of thjTne, and six peppercorns. Place the pan on a moderate fire, and let it remain until the ham and the sides of the pan are brightly coloured, mo\'ing the pieces of meat about with a wooden spoon, to prevent burning, and to aUow of their being equally browned on all sides. Pour over them, very gradually, a pint of boiling water, in which half a tea-spoonful of the extract has been dissolved. Boil, then simmer gently for half an hour, strain, and serve. If a thick sauce is wanted, the flour should be mixed smoothly with the butter before the gravy is put in. Probable cost, 5d. per tea-spoonful of the extract. Sufficient for a quart of gravy. Gravy, Garlic {see Garlic Gravj^). Gravy in haste.—Take half a pound of lean beef, an onion, and a carrot, and cut them all into very small pieces. Put them into a( 276 ) GRA GBA Baucopuu, witli ii pioco of buttor or good boot' drippinj? tho sizo of a largo nut, and placo tlioin ovor a tiro till thoy aro brightly browuod all over. Koop stirring tho saucepan, to prevent their burning, and add tlu'ee-cpiarterw of a pint of water, u wprig uf parsley and thyme, six peppercorns, two cloves, and half a sidt-spoonful of salt. Sininior gently, skim, and strain, and tho gnivy is ready for use. Time, half an hour to boil tho gravy. Sufficient for three- quai-ters of a pint of gravy. Probable cost, about 7d. per pint. Gravy in haste (another way).—Dissolve half a tea-spoonful of Liobig's extract of meat in half a pint of boiling water. Fry the minced carrot and onion in a little butt.ir or dripping, until lightly browned, pour th3 liquid over them, let all boil together for ten minutes, add a dessert-spoonful of mushrooi i or walnut ketchup, skim, strain, and serve. Probable cost, 3d. Sufficient for half a pint of gravy. Gravy, Jelly for.—Take a pound and a half of the sliin of beef, a pound and a half of tho knuckle of veal, and a quarter of a pound of lean uncooked ham. Cut the meat into small pieces, break the bone, remove the marrow, and add a bunch of savoury herbs, a sliced carrot, two blades of mace, eight pepper- corns, the rind of a quarter of a lemon, three grains of cayenne, a lump of sugar, and a small tea-spoonful of salt. Pour on four pints of water, or, better still, veal broth, and let the mixtui'e simmer very gently for six hours. If quickly boiled the jolly will be spoilt. Remove the scum as it rises, and strain the gravy, which should be kept in a cool place, and boiled for a minute or two every two or three days, if it is to be kept some time. The above is an excellent recipe for making strong gravies and sauces. Probable cost, about 38. Sufficient for three pints. Gravy, Jugged.—Take half a pound of lean ham, and two pounds of lean beef—the shin is the best for this purpose. Cut them into small square pieces, and put them into an aarthen jar. Strew over, and amongst them, chopped vegetables and seasoning, consisting of a caiTot, an onion, half a drachm of bruised celerj'-seed, tied in a piece of muslin, a blade of mace, three sprigs of parsley, and one each of marjoram and thyme, six peppercorns, and a clove. Pour a quart of water on these ingre- dients, cover the jar closely, and place it in a moderate oven, for five or six hours. At the end of that time, skim and strain the gravy, which will be ready for use. Probable cost for this quantity, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Gravy, Kidney.—Take half a beef kid- ney, or three shocps' kidneys. Cut them into slices, flour them, and strew over them a table- spoonful of powdered herbs, of which two parts should be parsley, and one thyme. Put them into a saucepan with a piece of butter, the size of a large egg, and a small onion finely minced, and shako them over tho fire until the gravj' is almost dried up; then add a pint of boiling water, and simmer very gently for an hour and a half, or more, until tho gravy is done to perfection. Then skim and strain. Add salt and cayenne, and any flavouruig tliat uuiy Ije preferred. I'roljuble cost, «d. Sufficient for four or live persons. Gravy made without Meat, for Fowls.—Take tho feet, necks, livers, and gizzards of the fowls, wash them thoroughly, cut them into small pieces, and put them into a saucepan, with a bunch of savoury herbs, a small onion, half a slice of bread, toasted brown and h^ird, but not burnt, a salt-spoonful of salt, half a salt-spoonful of pepper, and a pint and a half of water. Simmer very gently for an hour, or more. Pour the fat from the pan which has been under the fowl, strain the gravy to it, stir it well, strain it again into the saucepan; add a table-spoonful of mushioom ketchup, if this is liked, and serve as hot as possible. Probable cost, 2d. Sufficient for a couple of fowls. Gravy Maigre for Pish (sometimes called Root Gravy). — Cut half a clove of garlic, an onion, a carrot, and a turnip into small pieces, and fry them to a glaze in a piece of butter the size of a large egg. Pour slowly over them a quarter of a pint of cold water, and add two grains of cayenne, half a tea-spoonful of salt, three cloves, two sprigs of parsley, one of thjTne, half a dozen button- mushrooms, and another lump of butter, rolled thickly in flour. Simmer gently for about twenty minutes, and before straining, add half a tumblerful of sherry or Madeira. Time, altogether, about three-quarters of an hour. Sufficient for three-quarters of a pint of gravy. Prolmble cost, 4d., exclusive of the wine. Gravy, Onion.—Take three Spanish onions, cut them into slices, and frj' them with two ounces of butter, till they are slightly browned. Drain them, and mix a table-spoon- ful of flour, very smoothly, with the fat. Add, gradually, three-quarters of a pint of stock, return the onions to the saucepan, and simmer gently until they are quite soft. Season with pepper and salt, pass them through a fine sieve, and boil up once more, adding two table-spoon- fuls of ketchup, two of claret, and a tea-spoon- ful of lemon-juice. Time, altogether, about three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost,, exclusive of the wine, 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Gravy, Orange (suitable for wild water- fowl).—Cut a smtill onion into little pieces, and put it into a saucepan, with half a pint of veal stock, three or four leaves of basil, and the rind of a Seville orange—or, failing this, a lemon. Simmer gently for twenty minutes, strain the gravy, and add the jiuce of the orange, half a salt-spoonful of salt, half a salt- spoonful of pepper, and a wine-glassful of port or claret. Return the liquid to the saucepan, make it as hot as possible without letting it boil, and serve in a tureen. Prol5able cost, 3d., exclusive of the wine. Sufficient for fire or six persons. Gravy, Piquant, for Hash.—Mince very fincilv two shallots and a (luai-tor of & clove of garlic. Put them in a .stcwpnn, with a piece of buttor tho size of a wabaut. Fry veryGBA GRA ( 277 ) ^ntly, until lightly browned, and keep stirring, to prevent burning, ^lix with the gravy, smoothly, two tablo-spoonfuls of flour, and a dessort-spoonful of cliopped pai'sloy. Add two tablo-spoonfuls of vinegar or lemou-juice, a ■cupful of good stock, and half a sKce of bread, toasted until it is firm and hard, but not burnt. Garnish the dish with pickled gherkins. Time, half an horn-. Probable cost, 4d. Sufficient for half a pint of gravy. Gravy, Savoury. This is another name for CuUis, or Kich Gravy, tvhkh sec. G-ravy, Seasoning for.—Put one ounce and a half of white pepper into a mortar, with half an ounce of mace, one ounce of nutmeg, two di-achms of cayenne, a di-achm of ginger, and a drachm of cassia. Pound, and mix thoroughly. Put the powder into a small bottle, and keep it closely corked, or the strength and flavour will escape. A pinch of tliis powder will season half a pint of gravy. Gravy, Shallot (for Broils and Grills).— Peel three shallots. Cut them into thin slices, and put them into a saucepan, -with three table- epoonfuls of best French vinegar; boil for five minutes, then add a quarter of a pint of clear brown gravy, two pinches of salt, and two giains of cayenne. Boil altogether five minutes longer and serve as hot as possible. Probable cost, 3d. Sufficient for nearly half a pint of gi-avy. Gravy Soup, with Vermicelli.—Take two quarts of clear brown gravy soup {see Gravy, Brown, Soup). Let it boil, then di-op into it, very gradually, three ounces of fresh vermicelli. If long kept, the soup wiU be quite spoilt. The vermicelli should be rubbed between the fingers, and dropped in with one hand, whilst the soup is being stirred with the other to prevent any lumps foi-ming. Simmer gently until it is thick and soft, and serve with a French roll in the tureen. A plateful of grated Parmesan cheese should be sent to table with the soup. The usual plan is to soak the vermicelli in boiling- water for a few minutes, di-ain and cool it in a colander, then simmer it gently for five or six minutes, stirring frequently to prevent it get- ting into lumps. Time, from twenty to thirty minutes to boil the vermicelli. Probable cost, vermicelU, 8d. per pound. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Gravy, Stock for.—For ordinary do- mestic use, a good cook will seldom require gravy-beef, with which to make gravy. The bones and trimmings of meat and poultry, the shank bones of mutton, which have been soaked, brushed, and long stewed with the gravy which is left from joints, generally supply aU that is wanted. When fresh meat 18 necessiir)', beef skirt, kidney, cow-heel, the shin of beef, or any of the ingredients which are used for the stock of soup, may bo used for gravy. It should be remembered that ketchiip and sauces for flavouring should be put in a short time only before serving, as the strength speedily evaporates; and, it is best to bo very sparing in thoir use, as a little may be added, but cannot be taken out. If gravy is too Aveak, it should be boiled in an uncovered pan; if strong, in a covered one. It should be kept in a cool place, in an earthen jar, the lid of which should not be put on until the gx'avy is cool. If there is the slightest suspicion that the meat for gmvy will not keep, it should be lightly fried. Gravy, To Clarify.—The easiest way of clarifying gravy is described in the recipe, Clear Soup (made from bones), where white of egg is used. The best method that can be adopted for doing the work will bo found in the recipe. Clear Soup (excellent), where raw beef is employed. Gravy, To Improve the Flavour or Strength of.—When gravies are wanting in flavour, they may be improved by being boiled quickly in an uncovered saucepan, and by the addition of a little ketchup, or any of the best prepared sauces. If this is not sufficient, take two or thi-ee ounces of the lean of uncooked ham or bacon, cut it into small pieces, and put them into a saucepan with a piece of butter the size of an egg, two shallots finely minced, a piece of parsley root, two allspice berries, three cloves, and a bunch of savoury herbs. Keep these ingicdients over a gentle fire, shaking them often to prevent burning, for about half an horn-, or until the pan is coloured with a bright red glaze; add, very slowlj', a pint and a half of the gravy, and simmer gently for half an hoiu- longer. Fish gravy must be flavoured judiciously with anchovy or hening brine, soy, and walnut ketchup. Sufficient for a pint and a half of gravy. Probable cost, 6d., for the flavouiing. Gravy, To Keep.—When gravy is to be kept it should be put into earthen pans, freshly scalded and di-ied. Vegetables should be strained from it, and if any fat cakes on the top, it should be left untouched until the gravy is wanted. It should be boiled up ever)' day in summer, and every two or three days in winter, and the pan scalded and dried. It is best left uncovered, but if a cover is necessary to keep out the dust, it must not be put on untU the gravy is quite cold. Gravy, To Make Mutton like Ven- ison.—Let the mutton hang as long as it will keep sweet. The length of time will depend upon the weather. Cut a "high" snipe, or woodcock, into small pieces, being careful first to remove the bag from the entrails, and stew them gently in a pint and a half of unseasoned beef or mutton gravy. Strain, and pour it boiling hot over the mutton. Time, half an hour. Probable cost, variable. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Gravy, Veal, for White Sauce.—Put one pound of lean ham at the bottom of a sauce- pan, with two pounds of the neck, or the fleshy part of the knuckle of veal, cut into two or three pieces. Cover them with a quarter of a pint of good broth, and boil, rather quickly at first, and afterwards very gently, until the meat begins to glaze. Pierce the meat once or twice with a skewer, and shako tlic pan frequently to prevent burning. When the glaze is lightly brown, add, gradiially, two pints of good brotli; and simmer gently for two hours. If it il wished to flavour the gravy, an onion and aaRA GRE ( 278 ) bunch of parsley may be stowed with the broth; but if it is intended to bo put aside for future use, neither vogottiblos nor seusoning should bo added. Probublo cost, 'da. Sullicient for a pint and a half of gi-avy. Gravy,Veal, for White Sauce (another way).—Take a knuckle of veal from which the moat has boon taken, and saw it into small pieces. Put these into a stewpan, with two ounces of undressed lean ham, cut into dice, and two pints of water. Cover the pan closely, and sinunor very gently for thi-eo hours after the water has once boiled. Strain, and put aside until required. A small piece of lemon-rind, with a sprig of parsley and thyme, half a dozen peppercorns, and haK a blade of mace, may be stewed with the bones if a flavouring is desired. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for a pint and a half of gravy. Gravy, "White, for Fish.—Take one pound of pike, or any other common fish, cut it into small pieces, and put these into a sauce- pan, with two pints of water, a small bunch of savoury herbs, the rind of a quarter of a lemon, fom- cloves, four peppercorns, and half a tea- spoonful of salt. Cover the saucepan closely, and simmer gently for an hour. Strain, and when the gravy is wanted, mix a table-spoonful of flour, in a clean saucepan, with two ounces of butter. Beat with the back of a wooden spoon until the flour and butter are perfectly smooth, add the liquid gradually, boil altogether for a quarter of an hour, and serve. Probable cost, about 8d. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Gravy, White Roux for Thicken- ing.—Proceed as for Gravj-, Brown Roux for Thickening, but do not keep the flour and butter sufficiently long on the fire to take any colour. This preparation is used for thickening white sauces. Time, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient, a dessei t-spoonful of roux will thicken a pint of gravy. Grayling. —'.The grayling is a silver- scaled fish, pretty and palatable, found in rivers in the North of England. It often weighs as much as five pounds, though the more usual weight is from two to three pounds. It should be avoided in April and May, but is excellent in July and August, when trout is going out. It may be either baked or fried ; and in either jase should be scaled before it is cooked. Grayling, Baked. — "Wash, scale, and empty tne fish. Dry them; season them with salt and cayenne, and lay them in a shallow baking-dish, with three or four lumps of butter placed on them. Baste them now and then, and put a cover over the pan while they are cooking. Send them to table with sauce made of the gravy which runs from them, mixed vnth good melted butter. Time, about haK an hour. Pro- bable cost, uncertain, as graylings are seldom offered for sale. Sufficient, one moderate-sized fish for two persons. Grayling, Broiled. — Wash, scale, and empty the fish ; season them with popper and fait, dip them in oil, and place them on the gi-idiron over a clear fire for a few minutes. Servo on a hot dish, with the head and tail together, and squeeze the juice of a lemon over them. The fish should be small when cooked thus. Probable cost of this fish, un- certain, for the reason stated in the preceding recipe. Sufficient, a moderate-sized fish for two persons. Grayling, Pried.—Scale and clean the fish, opening it Mi little as ijosaible. Cut off the fins and gills, but leave the heads, and wipe them as dry as possible. Season with pepper and salt, dredge a little flour over them, and fry them in plenty of hot dripinng, or lard, until lightly browned. Drain them from the fat, and send them to table with crisped parsley in the dish, and melted butter in a tureen. Time, according to the size, from six to ten minutes. Probable cost, uncertain, the fish being seldom offered for sale. Sufficient, one moderate-sized fish for two persons. Grayling, Sauce for.—Put a table- spoonful of sheiTy, or any white wine, into a saucepan, with one tea-spoonful of anchovy essence, the jmco of half a lemon, a tea-spoonful of powdered herbs, of which two parts should be parsley and one thyme, an inch of lemon- rind, two cloves, six peppercorns, and a shallot finely minced. Shake the pan over the fire for five or six minutes ; strain the graxy, and nux with it three ounces of butter, a table-spoonful of flour, and a quarter of a pint of cream, or new milk. Simmer gently, stirring all the time, until the sauce is hot, but it must not boil. Probable cost, 6d., if made with milk. Sufficient for three or four persons. Green Bean Pudding. — Take one pound of old green beans, put them into boiling water, and boil them until tender. Blanc£ and pound them, and season them with one tea-spoonful of salt and half a tea-spoonful of pepper. Add the yolk of an egg, and two or three table-spoonfuls of cream; then boil the mixture in a buttered basin; turn it out before serving, and poiir over it some good parsley sauce. It should be served with boiled bacon. Time to boil, about one hour and a half. Probable cost, 5d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Green Caps.—Take six or eight sound young green codlings, scoop out the cores without breaking the fruit, rub the skins with a soft cloth, and place the apples in a preserv-ing- pan, with vine-leaves imder and above, and as much cold water as will cover them. Cover the saucepan closely, and set it by the side of the fire. Let the apples simmer until they are nearly soft, but quite whole. Lift them out as gently as possible, so as not to break them; drain and dry them, and rub them with the white of egg, beaten to a firm froth.. Sift some pounded loaf sugar over them, and place them side by side on a tin plate in the oven until they sparkle like frost. Put them into a glass dish, pour a good custard romid them, and stick a pretty green sprig in the top of each apple. Time, altogether, one hour. Pro- bable cost, about Is. Sufficient for five or si?! persons.QBE [ 279 ) GBE Green Corn Soup (a German recipe).— Boil one pint of unripe green corn in water until sufficiently tender, then pass through a sieve, and mix it with a quart of nicely-flavoured clear gravy soup. Let aU boil up together, and serve in a tureen with toasted sippets. A few young spinach-leaves may be boiled in the com to make it a brighter green. Time, half an hour, or more. Sufficient for four or five persons. Green Dutch Sauce.—Make half a pint of good bechamel sauce {see Bechamel). Wash some young parsley-leaves, and put them, while wet, into a mortar. Pound them to a pulp, and squeeze out the juice which comes from them into the sauce until it is sufficiently greened. Simmer gently over the fire, and, before serving, add a dessert-spoonful of strained lemon-juice. The juice must not be added until the last moment, or the colour of the sauce will be spoilt. Time, a few minutes to press out the juice. Sufficient for haK a pint of sauce. Pro- bable cost, 4d. Green Dutch Sauce (another way) {see Dutch 8;iuw>). Greengage Jam. —Choose greengages which are not over ripe; weigh them, and allow three-quarters of a pound of sugar to every pound of fruit. Remove the stones and skins, and strew over the plums half of the sugar, pounded and sifted. Let them stand for five or six hours. Put them into a preserving-pan, and let them simmer until reduced to pulp ; add the remainder of the sugar, and boil until a little of the syrup poured upon a plate feels thick and firm. The jam must be well boiled, as plum jams are apt to fer- ment. A few minutes before the jam is taken from the fire add a quarter of the kernels, blanched and sliced. Put the jam into jars; put oiled paper over them, and cover the tops of the jars with thin paper, dipped in gum. Pro- bable cost, 8d. per pound. Sufficient, a pint and a half of fruit for one poimd of jam. Greengage Mould.—Take a pint and a half of greengages, fully ripe; sldn, and stone them, and put them into a presei-ving-pan, with ten ounces of loaf sugar and a quarter of the kernels, blanched and sliced; boil until reduced to pulp. Dissolve a quarter of an ounce of isinglass, or gelatine, in a little boiling water; add it to the marmalade, and pour into an oiled mould. Let the fruit remain until firm. When wanted for use, turn it out on a glass dish. Serve whipped cream or custard round it. Time, an hour and a half to boil the fruit. Sufficient for four or five persons. Probable cost, lOd. for the mould. Greengage Pudding.—Line a buttered mould with good suet crust. Fill it with green- gages, picked and washed; add a little moist sugar, put a lid of the crust on the top, and fasten the edges securely; tie the pudding ia a floured cloth, put it into boiling water, and boil tUl done enough. As soon as the pudding is turned out of the basin, cut a hole in the top, to allow the steam to escape. Serve with sweet sauce. Time, two to two and a half hours, according to the size. Sufficient, a pudding made in a quart mould for half a dozen persons. Probable cost of greengages, 6d. per quart when in full season. Greengages, Compote of.—Boil six ounces of loaf sugar, with one pint of water, for a quarter of an hour. Remove the scum as it rises, put in the fruit, and sinomer gently for another quarter of an hour, or untU. the plums are tender, but imbroken. Care must be taken not to let the plums break, or the appearance of the dish Avill bo spoilt. Lift them out singly with a spoon, and put them into a glass dish; let the syrup cool a little, then pour it over them. The greengages should be eaten cold. Probable cost, 5d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Greengages, Compote of (a German recipe).—Take one pint of very ripe green- gages, take off the skins, and put the plums into a glass dish, with half a pound of pounded loaf sugar strewn over them. In two or three hours sufficient syrup will have been drawn from them. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Greengages, To Bottle. — Choose per- fectly soimd greengages, gathered on a diy day, before they are fully ripe. Put them into wide- mouthed bottles, and fill these with syrup, made by boiling a pint of water with a pound of sugar for four or fiVe minutes. Cork securely, and put them up to their necks in a large pan of cold water, with straw between the bottles to prevent them cracking. Bring the contents of the pan slowly to a boil; after boiling, simmer gently for a quarter of an hour; leave them until cold, seal the corks securely, and keep the bottles in a cool place, with the necks downwards. If there is any leakage, the fruit must be used at once; otherwise, it will keep for years. Pro- bable cost of greengages, when in full season, 6d. per quart. Greengages, To Brandy.— Choose per- fectly sound gieengages, not too ripe; weigh them, and allow half a pound of sugar for each pound of fruit. Put the sugar into a preserving- pan, with three table-spoonfuls of water to every pound, and when it is dissolved, pour it, boiling, over the fruit. Let the greengages remain for forty-eight hours, then boil them very softly till they are clear, but unbroken. Lift them out, singly, with a spoon, and three-parts fill wide- mouthed bottles with them. Boil the syrup then for five minutes; mix with it its measure in good French brandy, and, when cool, fill the bottles. Cover them securely, and keep in a cool dry place. Time, about twenty minutes to boil the plums. Probable cost of greengages, when plentiful, 6d. per quart. Greengages, To Candy.—Make a syrup of a pound of sugar boiled with half a pint of water. Put the greengages, before they are quite ripe, in this, and boil for a few minutes till they are tender, but unbroken. Take them out, drain them, and sift pounded loaf sugar over them until they look quite white. Put them on dishes in a cool oven, and keep turn- ing them about, and sifting more sugar over them, until they are dry. Time, about fifteen minutes to boil the friait. Probable cost of greengages, when plentiful, 6d. per quart. Greengages, to Preserve Dry.— Take a pound of greengages, gathered on a dry day, before they arc fully ripe. Leave thoGRE ( 280 ) GRE ■stalks untouched. Make a syrup, by boiling together a pound of loaf-sugar with a quarter of a pint of ^yater. I'ut the fruit into the syrup when boiling, and simmer for ten minutes; thi.'n lift oaeh plum out singly, boil the syrup once more, and pour it over the plums, lie- peat this for six days, boiling the j)lums foui" minutes each day. On the seventh day j)ut the greengages on a sieve, and place them in a cool oven to dry. They should be kept in single rows, in boxes, with a sheet of white paper between each layer of plums. Probable cost of greengages, when plentiful, 6d. per quart. Greengages, To Preserve in Syrup. —I'roceed exactly as in the last recipe, with the exception of removing the stones before putting the fruit into the syrup. Boil the fruit for three days—eight minutes each day—and bo cai'cful to skim the sjTup well, both before and after the fruit is put in. Blanch and slice a quarter of the kernels on the last day, and put them into the pan. Put the plums into jars, cover them with the hot syrup, and tie them down securely in the usual way. A pound of fruit is enough for a pound jar. Green Icing.—Take a handful of young spinach-leaves, wash them thoroughly, and put them, when wet, into a mortar, and bruise them until the juice can be squeezed out. Whisk the white of a fresh egg to a firm froth; add, gradually, a quarter of a pound of sifted loaf sugar, and the juice of hali a lemon, with as much of the spinach-juice as wiU colour the icing sufficiently. Beat it well, one way, for half an hour, and add a little more sugar, if necessary. Spread it smoothly, and dry in a •cool oven. Probable cost, 3d. Green Indian Corn, or Maize, To Boil.—Take a pint of com before it is quite ripe, trim away the husks, and boil quickly, until sufficiently cooked, -^hich will be in about half an hour. Drain, serve on a toast, and send to table as a vegetable, with melted butter, in a tureen. A slice of butter, and a little pepper and salt may be added, if liked. Suffi- cient for three or four persons. Greening for Soups,—Wash a handful of young spinach-leaves, pound them in a Tnoi-tar, put the bruised leaves into muslin, and squeeze out as much juice as is required. The soup may be heated, but must not be brought to the boiling point after the juice is added, or the green will be converted into a dirty yellow. Green Mint Sauce.—Take some young freshly-gathered leaves of mint, wash and drain them, and chop them as fine as possible. Mix a dessert-spoonful of pounded sugar with a table-spoonful of chopped mint. Leave it for an hour; then add two table-spoonfuls of good vinegar. Some persons put two parts of nunt with one of parsley. If time is a consideration, the vinegar may be added at once, but the flavour will not be so good. Probable cost, 2d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Green Mint Vinegar. — Take some young freshly - gathered mint, pick off the loaves, chop them slightly, and fill wide-necked bottles with tliem. I'our ovi.-r tliom some good French vinegar, and let tliem infuse for two months or more. Strain thiough muslin into small bottles, cork secui-ely, and put aside for use. Green Orange Plum Preserve.— Take the; fruit l>alure it is ripe, but h.t it be fuUy grown. Weigh the ])lums, and allow threo-quai-ters of a pound of sugar to every pound of fruit. Draw a darning-needle through each plum and make a slit in it, then put the plums into a ju'eserving-pan; stir them con- stantly, to prevent burning, until the juice flows freely. Take out the stones as they rise to the surface, and, when the plums are boiled to a pulp, add the sugar, and boil quickly till the jam will set. Blanch and pound a quarter of the kernels, and stir them in a few minutes before it is taken from the fire. Put it into jars, place tissue-paper, dipped in oil, upon the jam, and cover the jars with paper dipped in gum- water. Probable cost, 8d. per pound. Sufficient, a pint and a half of fruit to a pound of jam. Green Pea Soup.—Put a quart of fully- grown green peas into a saucepan with three pints of boiling water and a little mint, leave the pan uncovered, and boil quickly tiU the peas are tender. Remove the scum as it rises, press the whole through a coarse sieve, and let it boil up once more. Add a lump of sugar, and salt and pepper. Serve as hot as possible. If it is preferred, half a pint of the peas may be put aside after being boiled, and added to the soup just before it is dished. Add a little spinach-j uice, if necessary. Peas are in them- selves so nourishing, that stock is not needed for the soup, which will be a better colour if water is used for it. Flavouring should be judi- ciously added. Be sparing in the use of herbs and spices, or they may overpower the flavour of the peas. Time, one hour. Probable cost of peas, 8d. per peck. Sufficient for five or six persons. Green Pea Soup (another way).—Tike a quart of green peas, fuUy grown, and put them into a saucepan, with two quarts of water three lettuces, an onion, four ounces of lean ham, and half a drachm of celery-seed, bruised and tied in muslin, and a small sprig of mint. Boil gently until the peas are soft enough to pulp. Strain the soup, press the vegetables into it through a coarse sieve, add a tea-spoonful of salt and a table-spoonful of spinach-juice if the colour is not good. Serve as hot as possible. Time, one hour. Probable cost, exclusive of the stock or grav>', 9d. per quart. Suflicicnt for five or six persons. Green Pea Soup, Early Spring.—An excellent, nicely-flavoured green pea soup may be obtained before peas arc to be had by those who grow their own vegetables. Take about fom- feet of a row of young plants a foot high; cut them off close to the ground like small salad, and boil the leaves in two quarts of stock until they arc quite soft. Press them tlirough a strainer, flavour with .salt and a little popper, and colour with spinach-juice, if necessfiry. A q\iiirter of an hour before the soup is taken( 281 ) from the fire thicken it with a small lump of butter, rolled in flour. Time, about one hour. Sufficient for five or six persons. Green Pea Soup (maigre, or without meat).—Boil half a gallon of water, with a tea- spoonful of salt, in an enamelled stewpan. Skim well, and throw in a quart of fully-grown fresh green peas until they are sufficiently tender, then press all through a sieve. Put the hearts of two lettuces, a handful of young spinach-leaves, a sprig of parsley, and a sprig of mint, all finely shred, and a large onion sliced, into a saucepan, with about a quarter of a poimd of butter. Let these ingredients stew gently for haK an hour; strain the butter from them, and pour over them the pulp, &c. Simmer half an hour longer. Just before serving add a pint of young green peas, already cooked. A sliced cucumber is often added to this soup, and is an improvement, but, of course, increases the expense. Season with salt and cayenne, and serve as hot as possible. Probable cost, 28. for this quantity. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Green Peas (a la Creme).—Boil a pint of newly-shelled, fresh yoimg peas in the usual way. Drain them in a colander until quite dry. IVIix an ounce of butter and a tea-spooiiful of flour smoothly together, over the fire; add a quarter of a pint of good, sweet cream; when it boils, put in the peas for two or three minutes, and serve as hot { as possible. Time, haK an hour, altogether. Probable cost, Is. 3d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Green Peas (a la Fran9ai8e). —Shell a peck of freshly-gathered young peas, and put the pesis into plenty of cold spring water. Add a quarter of a po\md of fresh butter, and work them well with the hand until they stick together. Drain them in a colander, and put l them into a saucepan, with a little pepper and salt, and a wine-glassful of water, if necessary, hut yoxmg peas seldom require water. Let them simmer very gently for forty minutes, or until the peas are tender; add two large lumps of sugar dipped in water, and, when they have heen taken ofiE the fire a minute or two, the yolk of an egg beaten with a dessert-spoonful of cold water. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Suf- ficient for four or five persons. Green Peas for Garnish (weGamish, Green Peas for). Green Peas, Puree of, for Garnish {see Garnish, Puree of Green Peas). Green Peas, To Boil.—Green peas, when gathered young, shelled just before they are cooked, and dressed properly, are amongst the most delicious of vegetables. If they are verj- unequal in size, they should be shaken through a coarse sieve, and the smaller ones put into the water ten minutes after the large ones. Throw them into plenty of fast-boiling water, to whicli a table-spoonful of salt has been added, and keep the pan uncovered until the peas are tender. Taste them to ascertain when they are sufficiently cooked. Drain the water from them. Put them into a clean pan with a slice; of butter, a little salt and a tea-spoonful of sugar, and toss them over the fire a mmute or two, then servo. A sprig of mint is often boiled with peas, this is by some considered an improve- ment, and by others quite the reverse. Great care should be taken not to put much soda witli peas. If the water is very hard, a tiny piece may be put in, but too much would quickly reduce them to a pulp. Time, according to the age and size: young green peas, fifteen or twenty minutes. Probable cost, 8d. per peck, when in full season. Sufficient for three or four porsons. Green Peas, To Boil (a German recipe). —Put a peck of green peas into a saucepan, with four or five young carrots scraped and cut small. Sprinkle a little salt and pepper over them, and add a quarter of a pound of fresh butter. Cover the saucepan closely, and let them cook in the steam. When they begin to shrink, dredge two or three table-spoonfuls of flour over them, and shake the saucepan well over the fire till the peas are lightly coated with it. Pour a quarter of a pint of good gravy on them, and stew until tender. Cutlets may be partly broiled and steamed with the peas. Time, half an hour. Probable cost, 8d. per peck. Sufficient for four or five persons. Green Bavigote Sauce. —Take one oimce of mixed chervil, one ounce of green tar- ragon, one ounce of chives, one ounce of bumet, and one oimce of parslej*; pick and wash these ingredients, and throw them into boil- ing salt and water for two minutes. Put them into a cloth, squeeze the water from them, and poimd them in a mortar with half a pound of butter; mix them thoroughly, and put aside for use. When wanted, stir one ounce of the mix- ture into a pint of good bechamel or melted butter ; add a tea-spoonful of tarragon vinegtix, with six or seven drops of essence of anchovy, and serve. If the sauce is not sufficiently j greened with the herbs, add a little spinach-juice. Probable cost of thickening. Is. per pound. Green Sauce, for Ducks and Young Geese.—Put half a pint of green goose- berries into a saucepan, with a quaiter of a pint of cold water, and three or foiu- lumps of sugar. Let them simmer gently until quite soft and broken; then press them through a sieve, and retmn the pulp to the pan, with a piece of butter the size of a walnut, four table-spoonfuls of sorrel-juice, made by poimcling sorrel-leavcs in a mortar, and squeezing the pulp in muslin till the juice runs out. Simmer for a minute or two, then add a glass of sherrj'^ or Madeira, and serve very hot. Probable cost, 3d., exclu- sive of the wine. Sufficient for five or six persons. Greens (a la Creme).—Wash and boil two young cabbages in the usual way; press' tnem oetween two plates to drain the water from them. EoU a lump of butter the size of an egg in some flour ; stir it over the fire with a wooden spoon till it is quite smooth, but not in the least coloured. Add, gradually, a quarter of a pint of cream, a tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of pepper, and the eighth of a nutmeg grated. Simmer for ten minutes, and serve poured over the cabbages. Time, from fifteen to twenty minutes to boil the cabbages.( 282 ) GEO QBE Probablo cost, Is. 3d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Q-reens, Stewed. — Take a bunch of frosh greens, wash in several waters, and cut them into quarters. Drain them well, and throw them into plenty of fast-lioiling water, Siiltod and skimmed, and boil for ten minutes. Take thom up, press the water from them, and throw them into cold water for half an hour. Drain them, tie them up, cover with stock, and add a bimch of herbs, an onion, one clove, a slice of fat bacon, and a little pepper and salt. Stew very gently till tender. Servo with mutton, lamb, or veal. Probable cost, 2d. each. Sufficient for four persons. Greens. Turnip, Boiled. —Put two table-spoonfuls of salt into a gallon of water: let it boil quickly, and remove the scum. Wash the greens in three or four waters ; remove the decayed outer leaves, and throw them into the water. Leave the saucepan uncovered, and boil the greens rapidly until tender. Drain the water well from them, and serve. If the water be very hard, a tiny piece of soda may be added, but care must be taken that it is tiny. If plenty of water is not allowed, turnip-greens will be \)itter. Time, about twenty minutes. Probable cost, 4d. per bimch. Sufficient for five or six persons. . Grey Mullet.—The grey mullet is a smaU fish, seasonable during the heat of summer, and caught at the mouths of rivers, and some way up them. It is generally considered inferior to. the red mullet. It should be eaten quite fresh, and may be cooked in any of the ways directed for mackerel, which see. Grey mullet is seldom offered for sale. Griddle Cakes {see American Breakfast (or Griddle) Cakes). Griddle Cake, Indian {see Indian Griddle Cake). Griddle Cake, Irish {see Irish Griddle Cake). Grills, Gravy for {see Gravy for Grills and Broils). Grilse or Trout, To Pot.—Take half a dozen fish ; remove the bones, cut off the heads, tails, and fins, wash, and wipe them very dry. Pound in a mortar half an ounce of Jamaica pepper, a quarter of an ounce of cayenne, half an inch of whole ginger, four cloves, four all- spice, and two chilies; mix these thoroughly. Put aU in a bag, and place it on the fish, which must be laid in a pie-dish, backs uppermost. Strew a dessert-spoonful of salt over them, and pouron them three-quarters of apoundof clarified butter. Tie three or four folds of paper over the dish, and bake in a moderate oven for nearly two hours. When cold, remove the bag, put the fish into a fresh jar, and pour clarified butter over them. Probable cost, uncertain, the fish being seldom offered for sale. Groats. Gruel of {see Gruel of Embden Groats, and also Gruel of Patent Groats). Groseilles. Strop de.—Bmiso two or three pounds of red currants, and leave them in a jar until the next day. Pour off the juice, and boil it gently, with one pound of pounded loaf sugar to every jjint of juice. .Skim (^are- fidly, and bottle for use. A nice variation is made by putting one part of raspben-ies to two of red cun-ants. This syrup is useful for flavouring jellies, or, if mixed witli water, it makes a refreshing summer beverage. Time to boil the juice, a quai-ter of an hour. Probable cost of cun-ants, 3d. or 4d. i>er pound. Ground Rice Cheesecakes.—Mix a table-spoonful of ground rice smoothly with two table-spoonfuls of milk, and pour in a quarter of a pint of boiling milk. Stir the mixture over the fire for three or four minutes, till it thickens, adding first, one ounce of butter and four large lumps of sugar, which have been well rubbed on the rind of a fresh lemon. When cold, stir in the yolks of three eggs, well beaten, and a desseri-spoonful of lemon- juice. Line some patty-pans with a good crust, or puff paste, three-parts fill them with the mixture, and bake in a quick oven. The cheesecakes may be dusted over with powdered cinnamon, or grated lemon-rind, before being baked. Time to bake, about twenty minutes. Probable cost, 6d. for this quantity. Sufficient for eight or ten cheesecakes. Ground Rice Cheesecakes, Plain.— Mix two oimces of groimd rice smoothly with a little cold milk, and pour on it a pint of boil- ing milk. Put it into a saucepan, with one ounce of butter, a tiny pinch of salt, the rind sf a lemon, and a little sugar. Stir the mixture over the fire for five or six minutes, until it thickens, then pour into a basin, and when cold add two well-beaten eggs. Line some patty- pans with a good crust, three-parts fill them with the mixture, strew a few currants over, and bake in a quick oven for about twentj'' minutes. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for about two dozen cheesecakes. Ground Rice Cup Puddings.—^Mis two ounces of ground rice verj' smoothly with a little cold milk. Add half a piut of boiling milk, in which the rind of a lemon has been boiled, a limip of butter the size of an egg, and sugar to taste. Stir the mixture over the fire tiU it thickens, and when cold add three eggs, well beaten. Beat thoroughly for some minutes, then pour into buttered cups, or small moulds, and bake in a quick oven. Serve the puddinge as soon as they are taken from the oven, first turning them out on a dish. Wine, or sweet sauce, may be sent to table with them. Time, about twenty minutes to bake. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Ground Rice Omelet.—Boil half an inch of stick cinnamon Arith half a pint of milk, and stir into it, when boiling, two table- spoonfuls of ground rico, which have been smoothly mixed with two table-spoonfuls of cold milk. Simmer gently for a quarter of an hour, and stir the mixture briskly. Pour it out, remove the cinnamon, and when cold add four eggs, well beaten, and sugar to taste. _ Boat th» mixture for five or six minutes. Divide it into throe parts; then fr>- those in bultor, until brightly browned. A piece of butter, the size ofGRO ( 283 ) GBO a walnut, will be required for each. Time, five or six minutes to fry. Probable cost, 8d. Suffi- cient for foul" persons. Ground Rice Pudding.—Put a pint of milk into a saucepan, with half an inch of stick cinnamon, or the thin rind of a lemon, or two Liui-el-leaves. Let it remain by the side of the fire till the flavour of the cinnamon, lemon, or laurel, is drawn out, then boil and strain. Mix with the milk two ounces of ground rice, moistened with a little cold milk, and stir over the fire till thick. Pour out, and, when cool, add two eggs, slightly beaten, and if Uked half a wine-glassful of brandy. Bake in a well-buttered pie-dish, in a moderate oven. If baked too quickly, the pudding will be watery. Time, about three-quarters of an hour to bake. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of the brandy. Sufficient for three or four persons. Ground Rice Pudding, Rich.—IMix two ounces of ground rice smoothly with four table-spoonfuls of thick cream. Add half a pint of new nulk, which has been boiled, with an inch of cinnamon, or the rind of a lemon. Stir over the fire until the mixture thickens, and add two ounces of fresh butter, two ounces of sugar, and a tiny pinch of salt. Pour the pudding into a basin, and when cold, mix with it the yolks of three and the white of one egg, and a wine-glassful of sherry, or half a wine- glassful of brandy. Put some apricot, or any other good jam, at the bottom of a buttered pie- dish, cover with the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven. Sift a Httle pounded cinnamon, or pounded sugar, over the pudding before serving. This pudding may be eaten either hot or cold. Time to bake, about twenty minutes. Probable cost. Is., exclusive of the jam and wine. Sufficient for three or four persons. Ground Rice Souffl^.—Mix three ounces of ground rice smoothly with half a pint of new milk or cream. Put them into a saucepan, with two ounces of fresh butter, a quarter of a pound of sugar, a pinch of salt, and the thin rind of a lemon, half an inch of cinnamon, or any flavouring that may be preferred. Stir quickly over the fire until the nulk boils, pom- it into a basin, and when cool, add the yolks of three eggs, well beaten. Butter a plain mould— and it is well to tie round it a band of white paper, also well buttered, which should be a good deal higher than the mould itself, so that if the batter rises much in the oven, it may not fall over the sides. Whisk the whites of five eggs to a firm froth, and add them the List thing. Beat the mixture fully ten minutes after the whites are added. Bake in a quick oven, and servo as soon as the di.sh is taken from it. Have a hot napkin ready to pin round the dish in which the souffle was baked, and let a heated salamander, or red-hot shovel, be held over it, in its passage from the kitchen to_ the dining-room. Time to bake, twenty minutes. Probable cost. Is., if made with milk. Sufficient for five or six persons. Grouse.—Grouse abound on the moors of Scotland and the North of England, and are shot during the months of August, September, and October. The 12th of August is the tim©' fixed by law for the commencement of the sport, so that any birds used before that time are illegally obtained. Grouse should be allowed to hang as long as possible, the peculiar flavour for which it is so much valued being wanting if the bird is cooked too soon. After being plucked and drawn, it should be wiped, but not washed, and trussed like a fowl, without the head; though many cooks still twist the head under the wing. Grouse (a I'Ecossaise).—When the birds- are plucked and drawn, put three ounces oi butter inside each, but not in the crop; put them down to a clear fire, and baste plentifully. Lay a sHce of toast in the pan tmder them a few minutes before taking the birds from the- fire. Parboil the liver, pound it in a mortar, with a little butter, salt, and cayenne, and. spread it on the toast instead of butter only. Time, about half an hour to roast the grouse. Probable cost, variable. Sufficient, a brace for five or six persons. Grouse (a la Financifere).—Boil the livers of the grouse for ten minutes, and pound them in a mortar, with three ounces of butter, a shallot, finely minced, half a salt-spoonful of salt, and the same of pepper, two or three gratea of nutmeg, one table-spoonful of bread-crumbs, and four mushrooms. Stuff the grouse with this forcemeat, truss and roast, and baste them liberally. Put half a pint of good brown sauce {see Gravy, Espagnole) into a stewpan.. Add a quarter of a pint of stewed mushrooms, and a pinch of cayenne. Let all boil up together, and serve with the grouse. Time to roast the grouse, from twenty to thirty minutes. Probable cost, variable, from 2s. 6d. to 6s. 6d. the brace. Sufficient for four or five persons. Grouse, Carving of.—Grouse is carved in the same way as a partridge {see Partridges, Roast, To Carve). The breast and wings are considered the most dainty morsels. Grouse Cutlets.—Take a brace of young grouse, split them in halves, remove the wing bones, and tuck the legs inside. Season them with pepper and salt, and fry them in a little hot butter tiU brightly browned on both sides. Dredge a little flour into the butter; add gradually a quarter of a pint of gravy espagnole {see Gravy Espagnole), season rather highly with salt and cayenne, simmer for ten minutes and serve with the gravy poured over the grouse. Time, fry tiU brown. Probable cost of grouse, variable, from 2s. 6d. to 6s. 6d. per brace. Sufficient, a brace of birds for four or five- persons. Grouse, or Woodcock, Marinaded (a German recipe).—Hang the birds as long as possible. Pluck, draw, and wipe them dry with a soft cloth, and lay them in a marinade, made as follows :—Mince an onion, and put it in a quarter of a pint of vinegar, add a dozen pepper- corns, twenty juniper-berries, and three bay- leaves. Let the grouse remain in this three- days, turning them three times a day, and basting them frequently. Stuff them with turkey forcemeat, and lard the breasts with, strips of fat bacon. Put them down to a clear- fire, baste frequently, and serve with slices otGRO ( 284 ) QEO lemon round tho dish. Time, about half an hour. Probable cost of grouse, varifiblo, from 2a. 6d. to Gs. 6d. per brace. Sufficient, a brace for four or live persons. Grouse Pie.—Lino the edges of a pie- dish with a good crust. Put a pound of rump- steak, which has been cut into convenient-sized pieces, at the bottom, and lay a couple of grouse on these. If the birds are large, they should bo cut into joints; if small, they may bo put in whole, or in halves. Season rather highly with salt, cayenne, and black pepper, and pour a qmu-tcr of a pint of nicely-flavoured broth over the grouse. Cover with a good crust, and bake in a moderate oven. If the pie is to be eaten hot, a littlo more boiling gravy, to which has been added a table-spoonful of lemon-juice, and two of claret, may be poured in before serving. Time to bake, an hour, or rather less. Probable cost of grouse, variable, from 2s. 6d. to 6s. 6d. a brace. Sufficient for .six or eight persons. Grouse Pie (Scotch fashion).—In Scot- land grouse and steak are often prepared and fried in cutlets {see Grouse Cutlets), and then made into a pic, as in the last recipe. A few stewed mushrooms and hard-boiled eggs are an improvement. When the grouse is partially •cooked in this way, care must be taken that the pie does not bake too long. Time, &c., accord- ing to the size. Grouse, Quenelles of {see Quenelles of ■Grouse). Grouse, Koast.—Pluck the birds deli- cately, being careful not to tear the skin. Draw them, ami wipe with a soft cloth, but do not wash tnem. Cut off the heads, and truss them like fowls. Put them down to a dear fire, and baste them almost unceasingly. About ten minutes before they are taken up, butter a slice of toast, half an inch thick, lay it in the pan under them, and serve the bird upon this. Send brown sauce and bread sauce ■to table with them, and browned bread-crumbs •on a dish {see Crumbs, Fried Bread). The gravy should be slightly flavoured, or it wiU over^ power that of the bird. Time, about half an hour. Probable cost, uncertain. Sufficient, a brace for four or five persons. Grouse Salad.—Roast a grouse, and cut it into neat joints. Put these in a pie-dish, strew a little salt and pepper over them, and pour on them the juice of a lemon and two table-spoonfuls of Lucca-oil. Let them remain for three or four hours, turning and basting them frequently. Wash and dry thoroughly some fresh lettuce. This should be done some hours before the salad is wanted. The leaves should be well shaken, placed in an unpainted wire basket, and hung in a cool, airy place, so that they may be perfectly dried. A salad can never be a success if there ii any water hani;- j ing about it. Shred the lettuce finely, and place a deep bed of it at the bottom of the dish ; arrange the pieces of grouse neatly upon it, .and ornament the top with slices of hard-boiled egg, sprigs of parsley, and, if liked, a littlo savoury jelly. Put the yolks of two eggs into a basin, beat them for three or four i minutes, and add lialf a tea-spoonful of salt, and Imlf a tea-spoonful of ])cpp(;r. Add oil and vinegar (tarragon vinegar is tlie best) until the sauce is the desired tliickness, allow- ing six tca-8poonful« of oil to every one of vinegar. Begin with the oil, and pour it in two or three di-ops at a time for the first two tea-spoonfuls. Mix with a wooden spoon. If prop . rly nuide, the sauce will be thick and smooth, like cream. Just before the salad is served, jx/ur this sauce over the grouse, and amonght the lettuce. Put a border of curled celery round the dish, and beyond that slices of liard-boih-d egg, iind clear savoury jelly, cut into rough dice. Time, half an hour to roast the grouse. Probable cost, exclusive of the grouse, about 2s. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Grouse Salad (a la Soyer).—It is said, that on one occasion, when several gentlemen had betted largely on the abiUties of ceilain chefs de cuisine, M. Soyer was miiversally ac- knowledged to have won the palm in conse- quence of the superiority of a salad, made very much like the following :—Lay a thin border of butter, about haK an inch from the edge of the dish on which the salad is to be sei-ved. Put inside this, and on the bottom of the dish, a deep bed of finely-shred lettuce, prepared as in the last recipe. Arrange over this, verj^ neatly, the joints of a brace of grouse, rather under- dressed than other-wise. Make a dressing, by mixing together two table-spoonfuls of finely- minced shallots, two of chopped tarragon and chervil, a tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea- spoonful of pepper, two table-spoonfuls of pounded sugar, and the yolks of two eggs. Add gradually, at first a few drops at a time, twelve table-spoonfuls of oil, and four of Chili vinegar, putting one of vinegar after everj' three of oil, and beat with a wooden spoon until the sauce is smooth and of the proper consistence. Keep it in a cool place, or on ice, if possible, imtil wanted. To garnish the dish, take half a dozen hard-boiled eggs; cut them in four, length-wise, and take a little piece off the end, to make them stand upright; stick them on the butter roxmd the salad, the yeUow part out- wards, with gherkins and beetroot cut into slices, and stamped into shapes between the pieces of egg. Pour the sauce over the dress- ing, and serve. Time, half an hour to roast the grouse. Probable cost, exclusive of the grouse, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for a dozen persons. Grouse, Salmi of.—Pick and draw a brace of grouse. Eoast them for twenty minutes before a clear fire. Take them up. and, when cold, carve them into neat joints. Take off the skin and trimmings, chop them small, and put them into a saucepan with a bay-laaf, a small sprig of thyme, a sliced shallot, and one table-spoonful of salad-oil. Fry until lightly browned, then add half a pint of brown sauce, and simmer gently for a quarter of an hour. Strain tho gravy, skim ofi: the fat, and add a dessert-spoonful of loinon-juicc, a httlo salt and cjiyennc, and a glass of sherry. Put in the grouse, and lot them remain until quite hot, but on no account let them boil. Put the grouse in tho centre of a hot dish, boil up the gravy, pour it round them, and garuisaGUA ( 285 ) GRO with fried sippets. Probable cost, 8d., exclu- sive of the grouse and wine. Sufficient for si.\ or seven persons. Grouse Soup.—Koast a brace of grouse for a quarter of an houi- or twenty minutes; then cut oft the breast and the best of the meat, and lay it aside. Pound the rest of the meat in a mortar, and fry it in a little butter with tkree ounces of undressed lean ham, cut into dice, a chopped carrot and onion, a bay- leiif, and a sprig of thjTne and parsley. When lightly browned, add two quarts of good stock and the bones of the grouse. Stew gently for an hoMX, skimming carefully to remove the fat, then strain the soup, and add to it a table- spoonful of salt, a drachm of cayenne, two blades of mace, pounded, and a little brown thickening (see Gravy, Brown, Roux). Simmer half an hour longer. A few minutes before serving, put in the breasts, &c., of the grouse, cut into slices, and a glass of claret. Make the soup hot once more, and serve. Sufficient for seven or eight persons. Probable cost. Is., ex- clusive of the grouse and wine. Grouse Soup (anotherway).—Take a brace of grouse, or any other game, cut them into neat joints, andfrj'them inbuttertill lightly browned, then put them into two quaits of good un- seasoned stock, with half a drachm of bruised celerj--seed, or the outer sticks of two heads of cfilery, three onions, with two or three cloves stuck in them, and a table-spoonful of ground rice, smoothly mixed with a little cold water. Bring the liquid to a boil, then simmer gently, and about twenty minutes before the soup is taken off add a fresh young cabbage, quartered. Simmer gently till the game is tender. Season with a dessert-spoonful of salt and a drachm of cayenne. A little mushroom-ketchup and a wine-glassful of claret may be added, if liked. Time, ten minutes to fry the grouse; simmer the game until tender. Probable cost, uncertain. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Grouse, To Hash..—Take the remains of cold grouse, and cut them into neat joints. Put the skins, bones, and trimmings into a saucepan with two shallots, sliced, and three ounces of butter rolled thickly in flour. She^ the pan over the fire \mtil the butter is melted and lightly browned, then add half a pint, of stock, a tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of pepper, and half a blade of mace, pounded. Cover the saucepan closely, and simmer gently for an hour. Strain the gravy, and return it to the saucepan with a glass of claret. Let it boil up, then put in the pieces of "grouse, and when these are quite hot, serve immediately, with toasted sippets round the dish. The gravy mu.st not boil after the grouse is put in. Pro- bable cost, 6d., exclusive of the grouse and wine. Sufficient for three or four persons. Grouse. To Pot.—When grouse has to be preserved for sending to a distance, or for any other purpose, it maybe potted. In this condition it will remain good for throe or four weeks, and is vers* highly esteemed amongst epicures. Pre- pare the birds, as if for roasting. Season them rather highly, and put inside each two ounces of butter. Lay them closely in a pie-dish, and place small lumps of butter here and there^ upon them. Pour wine over them, port or claret is the most suitable, and a small tumblerfu] should be allowed for each brace. Tie two oi three folds of paper over the dish, and bake in a moderate oven for an hour. When cold, drain, and dry the birds, put them singly, breast upwards, into small pots, and cover with clarified butter. Sufficient, one brace for four or five persons. Gruel, Barley.—Wash a quarter of a pound of pearl barley in two or thi-ee waters. Put it into a saucepan with four pints of water, and half an inch of stick cinnamon. Simmer gently, until the liquid is reduced one-half; then strain, and return it to the saucepan, with two large lumps of sugar, and two wine-glassfuls of port. Keep it in a cool place, and heat it as required. Time, about an hour and a half. Probable cost, 3d., exclusive of the wine. Sufficient for two pints and a half of gruel. Gruel, Barley (another way).—Excellent barley gruel can be quickly made if the pre- pared barley be used, which is sold at all the grocers'. Mix a table-spoonful smoothly with a little cold water, stir it into one pint of boil- ing water, and simmer gently for twenty minutes or more. Season and flavour a» desired. Probable' cost, Id. Sufficient for a pint of gruel. Gruel, Barley (another way).—See Barley Gruel. Gruel, Oatmeal.—Mix a table-spoonful of oatmeal with two of cold water. Stir it into a pint of boiling water, and in a quarter of an hour strain off for use. Season and flavour it according to taste. Time, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost. Id. Sufficient for a pint of gruel. Gruel of Embden Groats (for in- fants).—Put a quarter of a pint of Embden groats into three pints of cold water, and, when smooth, boil it gently for two hours or more, until the liquid is as thick as required. Stir it frequently. Strain and sweeten according to taste. The same groats may be boiled twice. A little cream or milk is often added before using. Sufficient for a pint and a half of gruel. Gruel of Patent Groats.—Mix a table- spoonful of patent groats smoothly with two table-spoonfuls of cold water. Pour in a pint of boiling water, and stir for ten minutes, or more, over the fire. Sweeten and season, if desired, No straining is needed. A small lump of butter boiled with the gruel is an improvement, but in this, as well as the seasoning and flavouring, the taste of the invalid shoiild be consultod. Sufficient for one person. Probable cost, 2d. per pint. Guard's Cup.—Mix half a pint of sheny and half a bottle of perry with a bottle of cider. Add half a pint of brandy, a pint of rum-shrub, and half a gallon of water. Just before using, pour in a bottle of champagne, and place on the top a sprig of borage. This cup is very good, though not so good, without the champagneGUI ( 286 ) GXJA Guava Jelly. Imitation of.—Take a gallon oi largo bullaccs, di-aw a darning-needlo tlirough each oiio, to mako a slit in it, and put thom into doop earthen jars, niixinf^ witli thwn two pounds of red puuns—the linperatrivc plum is the most suitable. Place the jare in a saucepan, three-parts tilled with water, and simmer very gently for a couple of hours, or until the juice flows freely. Pour it from the plums, pass it through a jelly-bag two or three times to clear it, and weigh it. Boil it quickly for twenty minutes, then add throe pounds of sugar to four pounds of juice. Boil again, skimming carefully, until the jelly will set when a little is poiu-ed on a plate. This will be in about twelve minutes. Poui- the jelly into small jars, lay a piece of oiled paper on each, and cover closely -with bladder, or thin paper dipped in gum-water. The plums should not be loft too dry. They can then be boiled with a little sugar, to make common jam. Sufficient, a pound and a half of plums will jneld, on an average, one pound of juice. Gudgeon, The.—The gudgeon is a small, but nicely-flavoured fresh-water fish, chiefly used as a garnish. It is in season from Mid- summer to the end of November. Gudgeon, Fried. — Cleanse the fish thorouglily, take out the inside, and remove the giUs, but do not scrape off' the scales. Wipe them dry with a soft cloth, dip them in egg and bread-crumbs, and fry them in hot dripping or lard till nicely browned. Time, about four minutes to fry. Probable cost, uncertain, as the gudgeon is seldom offered for sale. Suffi- cient, about four for one person. Guernsey Buns.—Rub four ounces of butter into one pound of flour. Add a pinch of salt and two table-spoonfuls of yeast, with as much milk as will form a dough. Let it rise. Divide it into buns about the size of an egg. Place these on buttered tins, three inches apart, and put them in a warm place. When they have risen to twice their original size, bake them in a quick oven. Time, about a quarter of an hour to bake. Probable cost, a halfpenny each. Sufficient for eight or nine buns. Guernsey Cake.—Rub six ounces of butter to a cream, and work into it four ounces of flour and two ounces of ground rice ; add a pinch of salt, a quarter of a pound of finely- sifted loaf sugar, an ounce of candied lemon, finely minced, two ounces of dried cherries, and one ounce of angelica, chopped small. When these ingredients are thoroughly blended, add the yolks of four eggs, well beaten, four drops ■of almond essence, and a table-spoonful of brandy. Line a cake-tin ^^^th oiled paper, and when everything is prepared, add the whites of two eggs, whisked to a firm froth. Beat all together for fully ten minutes, pour into the mould, and bake in a quick oven. Time to bake, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, Is. 3d., exclusive of the brandy. Suffi- cient for a two-pound tin. Guernsey Pudding.—Boil three oimccs of rice in a pint of now milk, with an inch of cinnamon, the thin rind of a lemon, and three cloves, till it can be beaten to a pulp. Sweeten it, take out the spices and lemon-rind, and mix with it some apple marmalade, made by boiling six largo Hjiplos, j)(;(;led and quartered, with four table-Bj)0()iif uls of sheiTy. When cool, nnx tho- ajjijles with the rice, sweeten according to taste, and add tho whites of five eggs, whisked to a firm froth. Beat altogether for ten minutes, poui- tho mixture into a buttered pie-dish, and bake for an hour and a quarter. Make a pint of custard with the yolks of the eggs, and send it to table cold with the pudding. Probable cost, Is. 3d., exclusive of the wine. Sufficient for haK a dozen persons. Guinea-fowl, The.—The flesh of the guinea-fowl is excellent, being both savoury GtJINEA FOWL. and digestible; and, as it is in season when game is out—namely, from Februarj^ to June—■ it forms a convenient substitute. When well kept, it is not unlike the pheasant in taste and appearance. Guinea-fowl Soup. — Take the re- mains of a cold roasted guinea-fowl. Pick off aU the meat, and put the bones, skin, trim- mings, and forcemeat into a saucepan, with two quarts of stock, a slice of mdrcssed lean ham, an onion, and half a drachm of bruised celery-seed, tied in muslin, or the outer sticks of celerj^, preserved for flavouring. Simmer gently for two hours. Pound the meat in a mortar, %vith a tea-spoonful of salt and half a tea-spoonful of pepper, and the eighth of a nutmeg, grated. Strain the soup, and return it to the saucepan. Add the pounded meat, and a heaped table-spoonful of ground rice, mixed smoothly with a little cold water, lioil twenty minutes longer, and serve with toasted sippets sent to table ^s-ith the soup. Probable cost, 4s., exclusive of the stock and meat. Suffi- cient for four or five persons. Guinea-fowl, To Roast.—^^^lcn the guinea-fowl is larded, it sliould be trussed hke a pheasant, otherwise it should be trussed like a vo(mg turkey, with the head left on. Fill it "with a good forcemeat, put it down to a clear fire, and baste it constantly, or the flesh will be dry. A few minutes before it is tnkon up, dredge a little flour over, and froth it nicely. Send brown gravy and bread-»iuco to table" with the liird. Time, an hour, or r. little more. Suflicient for four or five persons.HAD ( 287 ) Gurnet, or Giirnard, Baked—The gurnet is a nicely-liavoured fish, with firm GURNET. white flesh, of an agreeable flavour. The head is very large, compared with the rest of the body. The most usual way of dressing it is to stufE and bake it. Clean it thoroughly, and cut off the gUls. Fill it with a good veal force- meat, sew up the body, and fasten the tail securely into the mouth of the fish. Butter a pie-dish, put in the fish, cover it with slices of bacon, and bake in a quick oven for half an hour or more. Serve with anchovy or parsley sauce. Sufficient, a moderate-sized fish for three persons. Probable cost, uncertain. Gurnet, Boiled.—Empty and cleanse the fish thoroughly. Cut off the fins and gills, and boil it gently in salted water. Serve on a napkin, garnish the dish with parsley, and send plain melted butter, or ancho\y, parsley, crab, or piquant sauce to table with it. Time, about half an hour. Probable cost, uncertain. Sufficient, a moderate-sized gurnet for three persons. Gurnet, Fillets of.—Run the edge of a knife along the side of the spine, lift the flesh from the bone, and having thus removed the fillets, cut them into neat pieces, rub some flour over them, dip them in beaten egg, and roll them in bread-crumbs. Fry them in hot fat till they are brightly browned. Drain them on a cloth, to free them from grease, and dish them neatly. Send any of the fish sauces to table in a tureen. Time, ten minutes to fry. Probable cost, imcertain. Sufficient, a moderate sized gurnet for three persons. H Hach^e Sauce.—Mince very finely half a dozen button - mushrooms, already stewed, llix with them a tea-spoonful of boiled parsley, and two large pickled gherkins, chopped small; •add pepper, salt, and a table-spoonful of lemon- juice. Warm aU over the fire for a minute or two, with two table-spoonfuls of good brown gravy. Probable cost, 4d. Sufficient for two or throe persons. Haddock, The.—The haddock is a fish which is deservedly much esteemed, the flesh being firm, rich, and delicate in flavour, besides which it is cheap and plentiful. It seldom weighs more than three or four pounds, and the largest fish is considered the best. It should be gutted as soon as possible, and a little salt put into the body, which should then be hung up to dry. Haddocks axe in season from June to January. Haddock, Baked.—Clean the fish, scrape the scales off, and fill it with a good veal forcemeat. Sew up the opening with a little strong thread, and put it into a pie-dish, with about two ounces of butter, broken into small pieces; baste frequently, and bake in a moderate oven. Serve on a hot dish with parsley and sUced lemon. It is an improvement to rub the haddock over with beaten egg, and sprinkle it with bread- crumbs before baking. Send melted butter and anchovy sauce to table in a tureen. Time, a moderate-sized haddock, half an hour or more. Probable cost, lOd. or more. Sufficient for three or four persons. Haddock, Baked (another way).— Clean the fish, scrape off the scales, and fill it with a forcemeat made by chopping the liver, and mixing with it four table-spoonfuls of fine bread-crumbs, an ounce of butter, a tea- spoonful of mixed herbs chopped smaU, half a tea-spoonful of salt, and a quarter of a tea- * spoonful of pepper. Bind it together with the yolk of an egg, and sew the opening in the fish securely with thread. Sprinkle a table-spoonful of chopped onion and a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley at the bottom of a pie-dish, and pour over them an ounce of oil or clarified butter. Season the haddock with pepper and salt, and lay it on the minced herbs. Put the same quantity of onion and parsley over as under it, and pour on it a quarter of a pint of ale, stock, or water. Place three or four lumps of butter here and there on the fish, put a cover on the dish, and bake in a moderate oven. Serve the haddock in its own sauce. Time, a medium- sized haddock, from half to three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, lOd. and upwards. Sufficient for three or four persons. Haddock, Baked (another way).— Wash the fish, scrape off the scales, and in emptying it, open it as little as possible. Sprinkle a little salt, and squeeze the juice of a large lemon upon it; let it stand two or three hours, turning it over once or twice during the time. Mix the finely-grated rind of half a lemon with two ounces of gxated bread-crumbs, add half a salt-spoonful of salt, half a salt-spoonful of pepper, and a quarter of a small nutmeg. Wipe the fish quite dry, brush it over with beaten egg, and strew the seasoned crumbs upon it. Put it on a wire drainer in a dish, pour on it four ounces of clarified butter, and bake it in a moderate oven. Baste it two or three times during the process. Send the gravy from the fish to table -with it. Time, from twenty minutes to half an hour to bake a moderate-sized fish. Sufficient for two or three persons. Probable cost of haddock, 9d. and upwards. Haddock, Baked (another way).—Clean and scale the haddock, wipe it very dry, and fill it with a good veal forcemeat. Sew up the sUt securely with strong thread, dredge a littleHAD HAD ( 288 ) flour and a pinch of salt over it, and put about two ounces of butter, broken into sniuU piocoa, here and there in the dish. Bake it in a moderate oven. Mince, very finely, two large gherkins, a table-spoonful of capers, and tlu-ec shall )t8; add half a salt-spoonful of pepper, and put thesa ingredients into a saucepan, with half a pint of good brown stiuce. Hinnner gently for live nunutes, then add a tea-spoon- ful of the essence of anchovy, and a table- spoonful of vinegar. Lift the haddock care- fully into a hot dish, garnish with parsley and sliced lemon, and send the Siiuce to table in a tureen. Time, from half to throc-qnarters of an hour to bake a moderate-sized haddock, l^robable cost, 9d. and upwards. Sufficient for three or four persons. Haddock, Baked, Gravy for {see Gravy for Haddock, Baked). Haddock, Boiled. — Wash the fish thoroughly, scrape off the scales, empty it, wipe the inside, and fasten the tail in the mouth with a skewer. Put two ounces of salt into half a gallon of water, and, when it is dissolved, put in the fish. Bring the water quickly to a boil, remove the scum carefully, then simmer gently until the eyes of the fish start and the flesh leiives the bone easily. Take it up as soon as it is sufficiently cooked, or it will be hard and tasteless. Serve it on a napkin, garnish with parsley, and send melted butter and anchovy sauce to table in a tureen. Time, according to the size—a good-sized haddock will be boiled sufficiently in about half an hour. Sufficient for four or five persons. Probable cost of haddock, from 9d. upwards. Haddock, Boiled, with Egg Sauce. —Shred two ounces of beef suet very finely, and mix with it four oimces of finely-grated bread-crumbs, a tea-spoonful of chopped pars- ley, a tea-spoonful of thyme, and a shallot, finely minced; add a little pepper and salt, and a grate or two of nutmeg, and work all together with a raw egg. Fill the haddock with this stuffing, sew it up with strong thread, truss it in the shape of the letter S, and boil it in salt and water. When done, take it up, drain, and serve garnished with parsley. Boil two eggs for seven minutes. When cold, powder the yolks, and mix them with half a pint of good melted butter. Add the whites, cut up into small dice, boil up' once, and serve in a tureen. Time to boil a good-sized haddock, half an hour. Probable cost, variable, about 6d. per pound. Sufficient, a haddock weighing two pounds for three or four persons. Haddock, Broiled.—Draw and clean the fish, and wipe it perfectly dry. Dip it in oil or clarified butter, di-edge some flour over it, and broil it over a clear fire on a gridiron. Turn it two or three times, and when it is browned on both sides, serve it ou a naplnn, and send shrimp, or anchovy .sauce to table with it. Time, ten or fifteen minutes. Probable cost, 9d. and upwards. Sufficient for two or three persons. Hpddock, Broiled (arother way).—An easier way of broiling haddock is to partially cook it in a Dutch oven before a clear firo, and ' when the skin rises brush it over with egg, strew bread-crumbs, di-odge flour on it, and broil it as before. Wlicn browned it is done enough. Put a small luuip of butter on tlio fish once or twice dui-ing tlio operation. It is more easily kept whole when cooked in tliis way. Time, altogether, half an hour. Probable cost, 9d. and upwards. Suflicieut for two or three persons. Haddock, Cold.—Put a piece of butter the size of a large egg into a stewpan, and when melted add a tea-spoonful of salt, hiilf a tea-spoonful of pepper, one or two grates of nutmeg, and thi-ec-quai-ters of a pint of new milk or cream. When these are quite hot, add the cold haddock, which has been lifted from the bones in neat pieces and freed from skin, and eight or a dozen oysters, chopjjod small. When on the point of boiMng turn the whole on a hot dish, and garnish with sippets of bread. Time, about half an hour. Probable cost, ex- clusive of the cold fish, 3s., if made with milk. Sufficient for four or five persons. Haddock, Cold, Curry of.—Pick the meat carefully from the bones in neat pieces, and remove the skin. For a pound of meat put a piece of butter the size of a large egg into a saucepan; when melted put with it two finety-minced onions, turn them about till they are lightly browned, then pour over half a pint of good, nicely-flavoured stock. Put in any bones or trimmings of meat that you may have, and simmer gently for half an hour; then strain the gravy, and add a table-spoonful of flour and a dessert-spoonful of curry-powder, mixed smoothly with a little cold water. Boil again for twenty minutes, and skim carefully. Put in the fish, with a little salt and pepper, if required, and when quite hot serve on a hot dish, with a border of well-boiled rice round it. Probable cost, 4d., exclusive of the cold meat Sufficient for three or four persons. Haddock, Curried.—Clean and skin the fish, lift the fiesh from the bones, then divide it into pieces about three inches long and one inch wide. For a fish three pounds in weight put three quarters of a pint of good, nicely- flavoured stock into a saucepan, and thicken it with a dessert-spoonful of curry-powder and a tea-spoonful of flour, mixed smoothly with two table-spoonfuls of the gravy. Mince two onions verj' finely, and put them'into the soup. Add a quarter of a pint of cream or new milk. Flour the pieces of fish, and fry them in hot lard or dripping till they arc brightly browned. Drain them from the fat, and put them into the gravy. Simmer gently for eight or ten minutes, skim the sauce, put the fish into the middle of the dish, pour the sauce over it, and serve. Time, one hour. Probable cost of haddock. 9d. or upwards. Sufficient for fom- or five persons. i Haddock, Fillets of.—Divide the hesh from the bono by ruuning the edge of the knife along the side of the spine, and take oflt the skin. Dip the fillets in beaten egg, roll them in broad-crumbs, and then fiy them in hot lard or dripping. When brownod on both sides drain from the fat, and serve them on a hotHAB ( 289 ) HAP dish. Take a table-spoonful of mushrooraB, rhoppcd sHiall, a table-spoonful of finely-mmced shallots, and a table-spoonful of chopped parsley. Put these into a stewpan with a quarter of a pint of good brown sauce. Sinuner for a quarter of an hour, and serve in a tureen. Time, ten minutes to fi-y. Probable cost of haddocks, 9d. each and upwards. Sufficient, one moderate- sized haddock for three persons. Haddock, Finnan. — The Finnan or Findleom haddock is so named from the village of Findleom, about six miles from Aberdeen, where they are prepared in large quantities. They may be imitated with tolerable success as follows :—Clean a haddock thoroughly, cut off the head, spht the fish open, and lay it in salt for two hours. Wet it with pyioligueous acid, and hang it in a dry place for two or three days. The acid will impart the proper smoky flavour. Time, two hours to lie in salt. Pro- bable cost, 9d. or lOd. each. Haddock, Finnan {see also Findon or Finnan Haddocks). Haddock, Finnan, To Broil.—Heat the haddock gradually, either over or before a clear fire, turning it occasionally, till it is quite hot. Eub a little butter over it before sending it to table. If very salt, it should be soaked in water for an hour before it is wanted. Time, eight or ten minutes. Probable cost, 6d. or 6d. each. Sufficient for two persons. Haddock, Finnan, To Prepare.—Cut a moderate-sized Finnan haddock into four or five pieces, wash and drain them well, and put them into a dish with a closely-fitting lid; pour boiling water over them, place the lid on to prevent the steam escaping, and let them soak for ten minutes. Take them out, rub a little butter over them, place them on a hot dish, and serve immediately. A bunch of savoury herbs may be put into the basin with the fish. Pro- bable cost, 5d. or 6d. each. Sufficient for two persons. Haddock, Fried.—^Wash and scale the fish. Dry it well, cut off the head and tail, and divide it into three or four pieces. Take out the backbone, dip the slices in beaten egg, and afterwards strew bread-crumbs thickly over them. Fry them in boiling lard or dripping till they are brightly browned, drain, and serve on a hot dish. Garnish with parsley and sliced lemon, and send shrimp or anchovy sauce to table with the fish. Time, ten minutes to fry. Probable cost of haddocks, 9d. each and upwards. Sufficient, one moderate-sized fish for three or four persons. Haddock, Pickled.—Mix a table-spoon- ful of salt with half a table-spoonful of pepper and a table-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley. Take four good-sized haddocks, wash and scale them, divide them into slices an inch thick, and put them at the bottom of a deep baking- dish, in layers, with the seasoning and four finoly-minced onions, strewn over each layer. Pour over all two pints of vinegar and one pint of water. Lay two or three bay-loaves at the top, cover the dish closely, and bake in a moderate oven. Let the haddocks get cold, then pour over thom some melted lard or cLirified K butter. Keep the air from them, and they wiU remain good some time. Time, two hours to bake. Probable cost, 9d. each or upwards. Haddock, Rechauffe of. — Lift the meat from the bones in neat pieces, remove the skin, and put them into a baking-dish. Season them with a little pepper and salt, and pour over them some good melted butter, flavoured with the essence of anchovy. Allow a quarter of a pint of melted butter to every pound of meat. Grate some bread-crumbs on the top, and put little bits of butter here and there. Bake in a moderate oven. Serve on a hot dish, with pickled walnuts as an accompaniment. Time, to bake about half an hour. Probable cost, 4d., exclusive of the cold fish. Sufficient for two persons. Haddock, Rechaufil^ of (another way). —Take the remains of cold haddock, remove the skin and bone, and divide into flakes. Mix thoroughly a tea-spoonful of finely-minced shallots, a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, half a tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of white pepper, with a pinch of finely-minced lemon-rind. Put the flakes of fish into a baldng- dish, sprinkle the powder over them, and pour on three table-spoonfuls of salad-oil. Grate bread-crumbs thickly over, and bake in a moderate oven. Brown the top, if necessary, by holding a red-hot shovel or salamander over it, and squeeze the juice of a lemon over before serving. Time, three-quarters of an hour to bake. Probable cost, 4d., exclusive of the cold fish. One pound of fish is sufficient for two or three persons. Haddock Soup.—Take three haddocks, fillet them, and put .the skins, heads, tails, bones, and fins, into a saucepan, with two quarts of stock, a bunch of parsley, two or three onions, and half a dozen peppercorns, and let them sim- mer gently for an hour and a half. Strain the soup. Melt two ounces of butter in a sauce- pan, add two ounces of lean ham, cut into dice, let them remain untU brown, then mix in, very smoothly, two table-spoonfuls of flour. When this is brown, add, very gradually, the strained soup, and simmer for a quarter of an hour. Put in the pieces of fish, and, when they are sufficiently cooked, serve in a soup-tttreen. A little ketchup or Madeii-a may be added, if liked. Sufficient for five or six persons. Pro- bable cost, Is. 5d. per quart. Haddock Soup (another way).—Pick all the flesh from the bones of a large and very fresh haddock. Put the bones, head, &c., into two quarts of stock, with an onion, a carrot, and a blade of mace, and let them simmer gently for three-quarters of an horn- or more. Pound the meat in a mortar, and with it the crumb of a French roll, which has been soaked in milk and drained, a pint of picked shrimps, and a table-spoonful of finely-minced parsley. Strain the gravy, mix it gradually with the fish, &c., and boil all together for half an hour. Season with salt and pepper, pass the soup through a coarse sieve, thicken it with a littlo flour and butter, let it warm up once more, and serve. Probable cost, lOd. per quart. Suffi- cient for five or six persons.HAD (m) HAG Haddock, Stewed.—Take a large fresh hiuidui k, cut oil' tlio lueut in lillets, and divide thi'S(! iutu iiuiit inuci^. Put the hoiw.H mid trimmings into a saucepan with a quart of water, an onion, a cnrrot, and half a dozen peppercorns, and lot them sinunor gently for half an hour. Strain the gravy, flour the elicos of tish, and fry them in hot lard or drip- ping till thoy are briglitly browned. Put thorn into the soup, and season it with salt, cayenne, and a table-spoonful of ketchup! Serve in a soup-tureen. Time, altogether, one hour. Sufficient for two or three persons. Probable cost. Is. Haddock, Yorkshire Mode of Dressing.—Take a perfectly fresh haddock. Empty and wash it, rub it with a httle salt, both inside and out, and hang it in an airy, cool situation for two days. Put it in a saucepan of boiling water, and simmer it gently for ten minutes. Take it up, drain it, remove the head and the skin, dip it in beaten egg, or a little thin flour and water, and strew over it some rather highly-seasoned bread-crumbs. Pour a table- spoonful of clarified butter over the fish, and put it in a Dutch oven before the fire until it is nicely browned. Boil an egg six minutes ; pound the yolk, and mix it with a quarter of a pint of good melted butter. Chop the white into small dice, stir them into the sauce, and serve in a tureen. Time, a quarter of an hour to toast. Sufficient for two persons. Probable cost, 9d. or more. Haddocks in Brown Sauce.— Take eight or nine small haddocks; wash, dry, and empty them, and put three of them into a sauce- pan, with a quart of good stock, a bunch of sweet herbs, a large onion, and the thin rind of half a lemon. Cut the meat from the remaining half- dozen fish in fillets {see Haddock, Fillets of), remove the skin, and put the heads, tails, and trinunings into the saucepan with the grav)\ Simmer gently for an hour and a half, then strain the gravj"-, season it rather highly with spices and cayenne, and brown it with a little brown roux [see Gravy, Brown, Roux for). Put in the slices of fish, and boU them about ten minutes. When sufficiently cooked, lift them carefully out with a slice, place them on a hot dish, and pour the gravy over them. A little claret may be added, and it is an improve- ment to add also two dozen oysters, with their liquor. Time, two hours and a half. Probable cost of small haddocks suitable for this purpose, 6d. each. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Haddocks in Brown Sauce (another way).—Prepare three or four small haddocks an in the last recipe. Put a piece of butter the size of an egg into a saucepan, and, when it is melted, mix smoothly with it one table-spoonful of flour. Keep stirring it with a wooden spoon until it is browned, but not burnt, and add gradually as much boiling stock or water as will nearly cover the fish. Add one salt-spoonful of salt, and half a salt-spoonful of pepper. Let it simmer gently until the sauce is smooth and thick, then put in the fillets, and let them remain until sufficiently cooked. Flavour with mush- room ketchup and a glass of claret, if likod. Lift the pieces of fish carefully out with a slice. place thom on u hot disli, Hnd pour the sauce over them. Time, one hour. Vrobal,le cost, od. each. Sufficient for five or six persons. Haddocks, To Keep.—Scrape and wash the lish. Empty th(;ni. Open them below the vent, so that the blood may be cleared from the backbone. Take out the eyes, and put a little salt m the bodies. Let them lie a few hours, then put a long wood(;n skewer through the eyes, and hang them in a dry place for a day or two. They may be cooked like dried or Finnan haddocks {see Haddock, Finnan). Time, three or four days. Haggis.—This dish, which is highly prized in Scotland, and spoken of by her national bard as the " great chieftain o' the pudding race," is made from the stomach, or pluck, of a calf, sheep, or lamb; that of the sheep, how- ever, is most used. It is boiled in the stomach- bag, and care should be taken that no thin HAOaiS. parts are left unrepaired in the latter, or it may burst in boiling, and the haggis be spoilt. It is seldom eaten on this side the Border, ex- cept amongst Scotchmen. When partly boiled a haggis will keep for two or three weeks, and is often sent in this state from Scotland to friends in other parts. Hearne, the American traveller, recommends that it should be mixed with blood instead of gra^y, and roasted instead of boiled; but when this is done, it must not be placed too near the fire at first, or it wiU burst. Those who have tasted it in perfec- tion -Nvill agree that a haggis is a most delicious morsel, even when served without pepper, salt, or any seasoning. Haggis, Cairs.—The following recipe is copied, word for word, from a recipe in a cookerj'-book published, by 3Irs. M'lver, of Edinburgh, in 1787 :—"Make the haggis-bag (the paunch of a sheep) perfectly clean, parboil the draught, boil the liver very well, so that it will grate; dry the meal before the fire, mince the draught and a pretty large piece of beef very small, grate about half of the liver, mince plenty of the suet and some of the small onions. Mix all these materials together with a handful or two of the dried meal, spread them on the table, and season them properly with salt and mixed spices. Take any scraps of beef left from the mincing, and some of the water that is boiled with the draught, and make about a chopin (a quart) of good stock with it. Thou put all the haggis-meat into the bag with Iho broth, and sew it up, first making sure to press out all the wind. It will require at least two hours' boiling."HAK HAG (291 ) Haggis, English.-Take the heart, toniAue, kidneys, uiul part of the hver ot the sheep; and if this is not likely to be enough, add the meatfi-om a sheep's head. Weigh these ingredients, and take half their weight in fat bacon. Mince aU very finely, and add the crumb of a penny roll, grated, two pounded anchovies, a tea-spoonful of minced lemon-rind, and a little pepper and salt. Mix thoroughly, and moisten •with two beaten eggs and a glass of wine. 'Take a well-buttered mould, put in the mix- ture, plunge it into boiling water, and boil for two hours. Turn the haggis out on a hot dish before serving. Sufficient, without the head, for six or eight persons. Haggis, Lamb's.—Take a lamb's paunch, thoroughly cleansed and white, and see that it is quite whole, sew up any thin places there may be in it, and press it in a soft cloth, to dry it thoroughly. Boil the pluck in water till it is sufficiently cooked, then mince it finely, and mix with, it a pound of finely-shred beef suet, a pound of oatmeal, six or eight young onions, chopped small, a tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of pepper, a quarter of a nut- meg, grated, two eggs, well beaten, and half a pint of milk. When these are thoroughly mixed, put them into the paunch, and be care- ful not to fill it so full as to leave no room for swelling. It would be safer if the haggis were tied in a cloth as well as in the bag. Boil gently for three hours, turn out in a hot dish, and serve as hot as possible. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for six persons.' Haggis, Mutton [see Mutton Haggis). Haggis, Royal [see Kew Mince or Haggis Eoyal). Haggis, Scotch.—Take the stomach of a sheep, wash it well, and let it soak for several hours in cold salt and water, then turn it inside out, put it into boiling water to scald, scrape it quickly with a knife, and let it remain in water until wanted. Clean a sheep's pluck thoroughly. Pierce the heart and the liver in several places, to let the blood run out, and boil the liver and lights for an hour and a half. When they have boiled a quarter of an hour, put them into fresh water, and, during the last half hour, let the rest of the pluck be boiled with them. Trim away the skins, and any dis- coloured parts there may be, grate half of the liver, and mince all the rest very finely; add a pound of finely-shred suet, two chopped onions, half a pint of oatmeal, or, if preferred, half a poimd of oat-cakes, toasted and crumbled, two tea-spoonfuls of salt, and one of pepper, half a nutmeg, grated, and a grain of cayenne! Moisten with half a pint of good gravy and the juice of a small lemon, and put the mixture into the bag already prepared for it. Be care- ful to leave room for swelling, sew it securely, and plunge it into boiling water. It wiH re- quire three hours' gentle boiUng. Prick it with a needle every now and then, especially during the first half hour, to let the air out. A haggis should be sent to table as hot as possible, and neither sauce nor gravy should be served with it. The above is sufficient for eight or ten porsons. Haggis, with Fruit and Sugar.— Haggis is sometimes made sweet—that is, a' pound of picked currants, a pound of stoned raisins, and half a pint of sherry are added to the ingredients of the English haggis {see Haggis, English), and the haggis is then boiled in a calf's bladder. When it is made in this way, sugar should be sent to table with it. Time to prepare, three hours. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Hake.—Hake is a west-country fish, com- mon in Devonshire, and often sold under the name of white salmon. It would be highly esteemed if it were expensive; but as it is cheap it is little used except amongst the poor. It may be cooked in the same way as halibut {see Halibut), but it is certainly most palatable when baked, as in the following recipes. If a whole fish be bought, and is too large to be used in one day, the thick part may be cut into steaks, and the tail end salted and put aside. It is, however, best when fresh. It it in season in the summer months. Hake, Baked.—Cut four pounds of hake into slices rather more than half an inch thick. Dry them well, and rub them over with flour. Grate four ounces of stale crumbs of bread. Mix with them a table-spoonful of finely-minced parsley, a tea-spoonful of minced onions, half a salt-spoonful of salt, and a quarter of a salt- spoonfiLl of pepper. Put an ounce of good butter or dripping at the bottom of a pie-dish, and sprinkle a little chopped parsley and onion over; then place the slices of hake upon it, first covering them thickly with the seasoned crumbs. Divide two ounces of butter or drip- ping into little pieces, and lay them here and there in the dish. Pour a quarter of a pint of gravy or water underneath, and bake in a good oven. Send the gravy cooked with them to table with the fish. It is an improvement to grate a little cheese over the fish before putting it in the oven. If the flavour of the onions is disliked, they should be omitted, and a small bunch of sweet herbs or a few chopped mush- rooms substituted. Time, about half an hour. Probable cost, hake, 3d. or 4d. per pound. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Hake, Baked (another way).—Take four pounds of hake, cut it into slices rather more than half an inch thick, dry them well, and strew over them two tea-spoonfuls of salt, one of pepper, one of powdered ginger, and two of finely-minced onions, or, if the fiavour of these is not liked, two tea-spoonfuls of powdered herbs, two-thirds parsley and one-third thyme. Put a piece of butter or good dripping the size of an egg into a deep dish, lay the slices of fish upon it. Make some sauce by mixing two ounces of flour smoothly with a pint of milk; boU the milk and flour, and with them an onion stuck with two cloves, and a pinch of pepper and salt. Strain the sauce, pour it over the fish, and bake in a good oven for half an hour. A little scalded and chopped parsley may be strewn over the top to improve the appearance of the dish. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Probable cost, 3d. or 4d. per pound. Hake Cutlets, Pried.—Cut two poimda of hake into cutlets, dry them well, and dip( 292 ) HAK BAL .them into a thin batter of flour aSid water. Cover thorn witli broad-crumbs, imd fry thoin iu hot lard or drippiuf,', until brif,'htly browned on both sidos. I'ut thoni on blotting-papor, t(j diniin the fat from them, and servo on a napkin. Garnish with parsley. Melted butter, anchovy Bixuco, or gravy piquant {sec Uravy I'iquant) may bo sent to table with thorn. Time, a quarter of an hoiu'. Probable cost, 3d. or 4d. per pound. Sufficient for throe or four persons. Hake Soup.—Cut five pounds of hake into neat slices, and put these into a stewpan with a carrot, a tirniip, an onion, a handful of pai-sloy, half a blade of mace, two-tea-spoonfuls !)f siilt, one tea-spoonful of popper, half a irachm of bruised celery-seed, tied in muslin, and two quarts of cold water. When the soup has boiled a quarter of an hour, take out half the fish, remove the skin and bone, and cut into neat pieces, which must be put aside until wanted. Return the bones and trimmings to tho saucepan, and simmer gently for two hours. Strain the soup, thicken it with a table-spoonful of flour, mixed smoothly with a toa-cupful of new milk, and put it on the fire again, and with it the pieces of fish which have been put aside. Let them boil untU they are sufficiently cooked, which will be in a few minutes, and take ofE immediately, or they will break. Send toasted bread cut into dice to table with the soup. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for six persons. Half-hour Dumplings.—Take half a pound of beef suet, free from sldn, and shred it finely. Mix with it half a pound of finely- grated bread-crumbs, and add two ounces of moist sugar, four ounces of currants, cleaned and picked, the rind of half a lemon, fijiely-minced, a quarter of a nutmeg, grated, a pinch of salt, a tea-spoonful of baking-powder, and a table- spoonful of flour. IMLx thoroughly, work to a light paste with two well-beaten eggs, and a little water, if necessary. Divide the mixture into small balls, tie each ball in a small floured cloth, and boil for half an hour. Turn them out, and send sweetened sauce to table with the dumplings. Sufficient for five or six per- sons. Probable cost, lOd. Half-pound Pudding (sometimes called Half-pay Pudding).—^lix half a pound of finely- shred suet with half a pound of flour, haK a pound of currants, half a pound of raisins, and half a pound of grated bread-crumbs; add a pinch of salt, two tea-spoonfuls of baking-powder, four table-spoonfuls of treacle, and as much milk as is required to make these ingredients into a stiff batter. Beat for three or four minutes, then pour the pudding into a buttered mould, and let it boil for three hours. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Probable cost, Is. Halibut.—This excellent fish is not prized as it ought to be, probably on accoimt of its cheapness. Its flesh is delicate and wholesome, and rather resembles turbot in taste. _ The halibut grows to an enormous size, weighing Bomotimes as much as a hundred pomids, but those fish are the best which weigh from twenty to forty pounds. The '' tit-bits'' an; the flackers over the finq, and the pickings about the head. It IB abundant in spring a.nd stunmer. It ia, wo believe, a favourite fiiih with the Jews. T. I Halibut, Baked.—Put the head and shoulders of a moderate-sized halibut into a weU-buttered baking-dish, dredge some flour over, and season them rather highly with salt, popper, and powdered mace. Put four or five good-sized lumps of butter i^Mjn the fijih, and bake in a moderate oven until sufficiently cooked, which will be in about an hour. Thicken the gravy which runs from the fish with flour and butter, and serve it in the dish with the hahbut. Shrimp or anchovy sauce may be sent to table with it. Probable cost, about 6d. or 8d. per poimd. Sufficient for five or six persons. Halibut, Boiled.—This is the least satis- factory mode of cooking halibut. It is much better fried, baked, or made into a pie. Put five oimces of salt into a gallon of water. As soon as it is dissolved put in the fish, which must be in one piece, with the fins taken off. Bring the water to a boil, skim carefully, and simmer gently until the flesh of the fish will part easily from the bone. Serve on a hot napkin, garnish with parsley and sliced lemon, and send melted butter, and anchovj' or shrimp sauce, to table with the halibut. Time for a piece weighing four poimds, twenty to thirty minutes. Sufficient for five or six persons. Probable cost, 6d. or 8d. per pound. Halibut Collops.—Cut four poimds of halibut into slices about half an inch in thick- ness. Sprinkle over these two tea-spoonfuls of salt, one of pepper, one of ginger, and two of chopped onions or powdered herbs. Put them into a pie-dish, with two oimces of dripping or fat, and pour over them a sauce made by boiling two ounces of flour with a pint of milk imtil smooth. An onion stuck with cloves may be 6ut into the dish with the milk, to flavour it. lake half an hour in a moderate oven, and send the sauce to table with the l^sh, first strew- ing over it two tea-spoonfuls of finely-chopped parsley. Probable cost, 6d. or 8d. per pound. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Halibut, Curried Slices of.-Take four pounds of halibut, cut it into slices tlu-ee- quarters of an inch in thickness. Leave tho skin on, flour them well, and fry in hot butter or lard till they are brightly browned. Have ready a pint of good beef stock, nicely flavoured. " Thickon it with a tablo-spoonful of cuny-powdor, and a tablo-spoonful of ground rice," mixed smoothly with a little stock, andHAM HAI. ( 298 ) afterwards added to the rest. Let it boil, and put with it a quai-ter of a pint of good cream or new milk. Stew the slices of lish until they ai-e tendei", pile them on a hot dish, let the Siiuce boil, and pour it hot ov* them. Serve with a border of rice roimd the dish. Time, altogether, one hour. Probable cost, 6d. or 8d. per pound. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Halibut Cutlets—Put the haHbut, before cutting it into slices, into a dish, strew a little salt over it, and three-parts fill the dish with -water. It must not be deep enough to touch the salt. When the fish has been soaking about an hour, take it out, dry it, and cut it into slices, not more than half an inch thick. Make a thin batter of flour and water, dip the slices of fish in this, and afterwards put them into the frying-pan, with hot fat. When one side is browned, turn over with a slice upon the other. Drain the cutlets on blotting-paper, dish on a napkin, and serve with anchovy, shrimp, or any other fish sauce that may be preferred. Halibut cutlets are -very good with nothing but a lemon squeezed over them. A few bread-crumbs seasoned with pepper and salt only may be strewn over them before frying. Time, ten or twelve minutes. Probable cost, 6d. or 8d. per pound. Sufficient, four pounds for six or seven persons. Halibut Pie.—Take four pounds of fresh halibut (the middle of the fish is the best for this purpose), season it with "salt, pepper, cayenne, and powdered mace. Take ofl: the skin, cut the flesh into thick slices, and put these into a pie-dish, with a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, broken into pieces, and two table- spoonfuls of anchovy sauce. Line the edges of the dish with pastry, and cover with a good crust. Bake in a good oven for one hour or more. Sufficient for six or seven per- sons. Probable cost of halibut, 6d. or 8d. per pound. Halibut, Stewed.—Put the head and shoulders of a halibut, weighing about five pounds, into a saucepan, with just as much beer as will barely cover it. Add an onion stuck with two cloves, a sprig of parsley, a tea-spoonful and a half of salt, a tea-spoonful of pepper, and two ounces of butter rolled in flour. Let the fish stew gently until tender, it which will be in about half an hour. Take it out carefully, drain it, and thicken the sauce with a little flour and butter. Add a tea-spoonful of lemon- juice, and a tea-spoonful of mushroom ketchup. Let it boil, and pour a little in the dish with the fish, and send the rest to table in a tureen. Probable cost, 6d. or 8d. per poimd. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Ham, Baked.—A baked ham is much more delicious than a boiled one, and will keep better. Put a ham into plenty of cold water for some hours. If very hard and salt, twenty-four hours will bo necossfiry ; for an ordinary York ham from eight to twelve hours is sufficient. "Wash it after soaking in lukewarm water, trim it neatly, and cut away aUthe rusty smoked parts. Cover it with a coarse paste made of flour and water, and take care to leave no loophole through which the gravy can escape. Bake in a moderate oven, liomovo the paste and skin while the ham is still hot, cover it with rasp- ings, and brown it before the fire. Time, according to the size. A very small ham wiU require fully three hours, and a large one five. The rule is to allow twenty-eight minutes to every pound up to twelve pounds, and a quarter of an hour for every pound beyond it. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Ham, Baked (another way).—Soak and prepare the ham as in the last recipe. Put it in warm water for at least an hour, then lay it in a deep pie-dish, with a quarter of a pint of nicely-flavoured stock. Cover it with oiled paper, and afterwards place a good thick coarse crust over it, as in the case of a meat pie. Add a little more stock, if required. Bake in a moderate oven from three to five hours, ac- cording to size. The rule is to allow twenty- eight minutes to every pound up to twelve pounds, and a quarter of an hour for every pound beyond that weight. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Ham, Baked (German method).—Soak, wash, and cut ofl: the skin and discoloured parts of a ham. Strew over it as evenly as possible a powder made by mixing together a table-spoon- ful of powdered sage, with a dozen pounded cloves, and a tea-spoonful of ground pepper. Cover it all over with a coarse paste at least an inch thick, and fasten it sectirely, to prevent the juice escaping. Bake in a moderate oven, £ind let the heat be sustained until the last. Take off the paste while the ham is still hot, and glaze or garnish as usual. Time, three to five hours, according to size. The rule is to allow twenty-eight minutes to ever)'' pound up; to twelve pounds, and a quarter of an houi- for every pound beyond that weight. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Ham, Beef {see Beef Hams). Ham, Boiled.—Soak the ham in several waters. If very hard and salt, twenty-four hours or more will be required, if not, from eight to twelve hours will suffice. Lukewarm water will soften it more quickly than cold. Scrub it well, and scrape off the rusty, dis- coloured parts, but do not cut the skin if it can be avoided. Put it into the kettle with plenty of cold water. If a bunch of sweet herbs, two or three carrots, and a bay-leaf are added, the flavour will be improved. Let it be brought to a boil very slowly, skim it carefully, and simmer very gently until suffi- ciently cooked. If it is not intended to be kept any length of time and still not to be cut until cold, it may be left in the water for an hour after it is done enough: this wiU improve the taste of the ham, but it will renuer it less Hkely to keep. Lift it out by the knuckle to avoid sticking a fork into it. Take off the skin, strew over it some browned crtimbs of broad, roU a frill of white paper round the knuckle, and send it to table on a dry, warm dish. If the ham is to be glazed, the bread-raspings must be omitted. Preserve the skin, and place it over tho ham when it is put into tho larder, as it will keep in the moisture. Time, for a newHAM HAM ( 294 ) hajn, twenty-fivo minutes to tho pound is suffi- cient, counting frojn tho time the water boiln • for an old one, twenty-eight ininuteH. Add a quarter of an hour for every pound over twelve. A piece of ham 6 lbs. weight, three hours. Ham, Boiled (another way). — Proparo the hiim as above. l»ut it into a saucepan, and with it a quart of boor, a pint of vinegar, and as much water as will just cover it. Carrots and sweet herbs must not bo omitted. CalcuLato the time which will be required to cook it according to the rule given in tho last rccipo, and let the ham bo simmered two-thirds of tho time, and baked in a moderate oven for tho rest. It must be skinned and covered with bread- crumbs before it is put into tho oven. Time, from thi-ee to five hours, according to size. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Ham, Braised (a la Fran9aise).—Trim, soak, and prepare the ham in the same way as for boiling. Wrap it in a cloth, and put it in a braising-pan with plenty of cold water, three or four green onions, a sprig of parsley and thyme, and four cloves. Calculate the length of time which will be required to cook it (seeHam, Boiled), and, when it is done enough, drain it, and put it into the pan again, with a bottle of Madeira or sherry. Simmer gently for half an hoiir. Let it cool in the saucepan, and glazo the ham. Time, from three to five hours, according to its size. Probable cost, Is, per pound. Ham, Broiled.—Slices of ham for break- fast may be either broUed on a gridiron, toasted, or fried. They are, we thmk, best when toasted on a fork. If broiled, the fire must be very clear. The ham should not be more than 'the eighth of an inch in thickness, and is better when soaked in hot water for a quarter of an hour, and then dried in a cloth before being cooked. Turn it as it gets crisp. Time, five or six minutes to broU. Sufficient, one pound for two persons. Probable cost, Is. 2d. per pound. Ham, Burgundy, Mode of Pre- paring.—Soak and boil a ham as usual, but a trifle under the time generally allowed. Take it up, drain it, take off the skin, and trim it neatly. Put it into a deep baking-dish, the fat side uppermost, and pour over it some boiling sauce, made of a pint of good stock, three ounces of sugar, and a bottle of wine (Madeira is the kind generally preferred). Put the dish in a hot oven, until the gravy is considerably reduced, and the ham glazed to a bright brown colour. Send good brown sauce and onion sauce to table with it. Time to boil, twenty minutes to the pound; to bake, about half an hour. Probable cost of ham, Is. per pound. Ham, Choosing a.—In choosing a ham, look out for one with a smooth skin, sweet smeU, and with the flesh adhering firmly to the bone. It is best to probe it ^vith a sharp knife ' down the knuckle, and near the thigh-bone, and if, when the knife is withdrawn, the smell is fresh and savoury, and the blade clean, the ham is good; if the contrary is the case, it is bad. York hams are generally considered the best. 1 Cured.—Do not let tho pig be kiUod m either damp or frosty weather, and remember tliat if it is not fully twelve monthn old, the ham will not be good. Let the 1mm hang a day or two aftor it is cut up, sprinkle a Jittlo salt over it, and let it di-ain for another day. Uulj over it very thorougJily a quarter ot a pound of saltpetre, two pounds of salt, and a pound of tho very coarscist sugar. Lay it, rind downwards, in a dish, put tlie salt on the iiushy parts, baste it frequently with tho brine wliich runs from it, and turn it every other day. It must remain for four weeks; at the end of that time drain it, and throw some bran over it. It is now ready to be either smoked or hung. If smoked, oak, green birch, or juniper, should be burnt under it; pine shavings would spoil tho flavour. If it is to be hung, let it be in a cool place ; watch it carefully, and if any part should get rancid and yellow, scrape it off, and rub the place with pepper, salt, and flour, mixed together in equal proportions. Three months should elapse before the ham is cut. If it is hung in a hot place, the ham will be hard and dry; if in a very cold one, it will be a longer time before it is ready to cook. If hams, when hung, seem not likely to keep weU, they should be put into the pickle again, and kept there till wanted, and used as soon as con- venient. If the brine should become sUmy and disagreeable, it should be boiled, or, better still, a fresh pickle made. Probable cost of ham. Is. per pound. Ham, Cured (an easy way}.—Take five ounces of salt, five ounces of bay salt, an ounce and a half of black pepper, an ounce of salt- petre, and three-quarters of a pound of coarse sugar. Dry these ingredients before the fire, pound and mix them thoroughly, and rub the mixture well into the ham. Turn and baste it every day for a month. Drain dry, and hang the ham in a cool, dry, airy place; or, if conve- nient smoke it. Two or three hams can be cured in one tub, this proportion of pickling ingredients being put to each. The hams should change places every other day, from the top to the bottom. Probable cost of ham. Is. per pound. Sufficient for a ham weighing fourteen pounds. Ham, Cured (in the Yorkshire way).— Lot the ham hang for twenty-four hours after the hog is cut up, sprinkle a handful of salt over it, and lay it on a board to drain. For a ham weighing fourteen or sixteen pounds, take one pound of common salt, half a pound of bay salt, an ounce and a quarter of saltpetre, and half an ounce of moist sugar. Dry these well before the fire, pound them in a mortar, mix them thoroughly, and rub them into every part of the ham. Let it lie four days, turning it every day, then pour over it a pound of treacle, and leave it for three weeks; turn it regularly, and baste it frequently. At the end of that time put it into cold water for twenty- four hours. Wipe it very dry, and hang it in a cool, drj', airy place. Probable cost of ham, Is. per pound. Ham, Cured (JI. Tide's recipe). — As 8oon as the pig is sufficiently cold to be cutHAM ( 295 ) HAM up, take the hams, rub them well with common salt, and let them drain for three days. Dry them, and for two hams, weighing sixteen or eighteen pounds each, take a pound of salt, a pound of moist sugar, and two ounces of saltpetre. Kub the hams thoroughly with this Duxture, put them into a deep pan, with the skin doNvnwards, and turn and baste them every day for a month, at the end of three days pom-ing a bottle of good vinegar over them. Drain, and dry them well, and, if they are to be smoked, hang them high in the chimney, to keep the fat from melting. " This," says M. Ude, "is superior to a Westphalia ham." Pro- bable cost, Is. per pound. Ham, Cured (Warwickshire method).— Rub two ounces of saltpetre well into a leg of pork, and leave it until the next day to drain. Put four quarts of river-water into a large stew- pan, with a peck of pale dried malt, a pound and a half of bay salt, two pounds and a half of common salt, one pound of treacle or moist sugar, and three ounces of sliced onions. Skim carefully, and boil for ten minutes, then pour the liquid through a sieve, hot, upon the meat. Turn the ham, and rab it well every day for three weeks, drain and dry it, and smoke it for three weeks or a month. The ham should be entirely covered with the pickle. Probable cost. Is. per pound. Ham, Cured (West Country Method).— Take three or four hams weighing fourteen or sixteen pounds each. Let them hang for a day, then rub well into each one two ounces of sal prunella, two ounces of saltpetre, and one pound of salt. Put the hams into a deep pan, and turn them over and rub them each day for three days. Make a pickle by boiling together three gallons of water, four pounds of common salt, four pounds of bay salt, and seven pounds of moist sugar. Skim thoroughly, and when the pickle has boiled for twenty minutes, pour it hot over the meat. The haras must be rubbed and turned daily, and their relative position altered, the one at the top being put to the bottom, and so on. At the end of three weeks they must be drained and dried, and smoked, if practicable. This pickle -will be found excellent for beef, bacon, tongues, &c., and will keep for several months if it be boiled and skimmed each time it is used, and kept closely corked. Salt and treacle should be added also to make up for the strength evapo- rating. Probable cost. Is. per pound. Ham, Cured with Hot Pickle.—Rub a ham weighing about eighteen pounds with an ounce and a half of pounded saltpetre, and an ounce and a half of brown sugar. Leave it until the next day, then make a hot pickle, by putting one quart of strong beer or porter into a saucepan, with two pounds of salt, half a a pound of brown sugar, an ounce of black pepper, an ounce of allspice, and a small piece of sal prunella. Pour this, when boiling hot, over the ham, and lot it remain for three weeks, rubbing in twice or three times everj' day. Drain and dry it, and, if possible, smoke it for a fortnight. A ham cured in this way has very much the flavour of a Westphalian ham. Pro- l>ablo cost, Is. per pound- Ham. Essence of, for Gravy {see Gravy, Essence of Ham for). Ham, Flavouring a.—The flavour of a boiled ham is much better, as we have already said {see Ham, Boiled), when one or two carrots, turnips, onions, a little celeiy, and a bunch of sweet herbs are boiled in the water with it. There is no waste in this, as the liquid may afterwards be used for soup. The ham is also more succulent if it is left uncut until cold, and not taken out of the liquid for an hour after it comes oflP the fire. It must not, however, be left in until quite cold. Many persons soak it in -vanegar and water, instead of water only, and think it is improved thereby. Ham, Fried, with Eggs.—Cut the ham into slices of a uniform thickness, and, if it is very hard and salt, soak it for eight or ten minutes in hot water, then drain, and dry it in a cloth. Cut oflE the rind, put the slices in a scrupu- lously clean cold frying-pan, and turn them two or three times during cooking. Put them on a hot dish, and if the fat is in the least discoloured, poach the eggs separately {see Eggs, to Poach). Break the eggs, taking care not to break the yol^s, and slip them into the pan. Gutter the whites over the yolks with two spoons, to shape the eggs like a ball. Take them up with a slice, drain them from the fat, and place them on the ham. Serve as hot as possible. Time, seven or eight minutes to fiy the ham. Probable cost, Is. per pound, if a whole ham be bought; Is. 2d., if purchased in a smaller quantity. Sufficient, a pound of ham and six eggs for three persons. Ham Fritters.—Take the bone of a ham from which no more slices can be cut, and pick off every part of the lean meat, and the same quantity of fat. Mince it finely, and with one pound of mince mix two eggs, a cupful of finely- grated bread-crumbs, and half a tea-spoonful of white pepper. Make a thin custard with two eggs and a quarter of a pint of milk. Cut a roll into neat little rounds, and put them into the custard to soak. Take them up with a slice, and put them into a frying-pan, with some hot butter. When they are lightly browned, take them out, spread the mixture thickly over them, strew some grated crumbs over the top, and fry them three or four minutes in butter. Probable cost, 8d. for this quantity, exclu- sive of the meat. Sufficient for three or four persons. Ham, Garnishing and Ornament- ing.—The most usual way of finishing a ham when it is not glazed is to draw oflE the skin carefully, dredge bread-raspings all over the fat, and put the ham before the fire to become brown and crisp. Fasten a frill of white paper round the bone, and garnish with parsley or cut vegetables. When served hot at a large dinner, it should be glazed {see Ham, Glazing of), or the rind, while warm, may be carved in any orna- mental device. White paper must be placed round the knuckle. Aspic jelly is a favourite garnish for cold ham {see Ham, with Aspic Jelly). If the skin is not ornamented, it should be preserved to lay over the ham when it la( 296 ) HAM HAM put iiBido, fiB it IB uBoful for keeping in the moisturo. HAU QARNISHED. Ham, Glazing of.—Remove the rind, and, to do so, take hold of it at the thick end first. Trim it neatly, put it in the oven for a few minutes, and press a cloth over it to dry- it ; brush it over with a paste brush dipped in melted glaze. The colour should not be too dark. Two or three coats are required. To melt the glaze, put the jar which contains it into a saucepan of boiling water, and stir it until dissolved. As has been explained else- where {see Glaze), glaze is simply strong clear gravy boiled to the consistence of sjTup. Ham, Minced.—Take a pound of lean ham already dressed; mince it very finely, and mix with it a little cayenne and a blade of mace, powdered. Put it into a saucepan with two table-spoonfuls of cream and half a pint of good veal stock. Stir it over the fire for a few minutes until quite hot, but it must not boU, and serve on buttered toast. This is a good dish for breakfast or supper. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Suflicient for two or three persons. Ham, Mutton JMutton Ham.) Ham, Mutton, Smoked. — Choose a large, fresh leg of mutton; have it cut into the shape of a ham, let it hang for two or three days, then rub it well with a pound of salt, a quarter of a pound of moist sugar, and an ounce of saltpetre, pounded and made wann before the fire. Be careful to cover the hole of the shank with- the mixtm-e. Put it in a deep dish, and rub it well with the pickle every day for a fortnight, then drain and dry it; put it under a heavy weight for one day, and hang it in smoke for a week or more. It may be either boiled or broiled. Mutton hams may now be bought at the provision shops ready cured for 7d. per pound. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Ham Omelet.—Mince one ounce of ham very finely, and, if uncooked, fry it for a minute or two in a little butter. Break four eggs into a basin, beat them well, and stir in with them the minced ham and a quarter of a tea-spoonful of pepper. Pour two ounces of butter or lard into the frying-pan; when hot, add the eggs, and stir quickly until the mixture sets. Shake the pan for a minute or two, to prevent buming, then double up the omelet, and when one side is brightly bnnvncd, turn it over on a hot dish, and serve. Time, five minutes to fry the omelet. Probable cost, 7d. Sufficient for three persons. Ham or Bacon Omelet {»ee Bacon or Ham (Jmolet). Ham or Bacon, To Cure (see Bacon or Ham, To Cure). Ham or Sausage, and Eggs Bacon and EggH). Ham, Pickled.—Ab soon as the pig ifl cut up, rub the ham well with common salt, and let it remain for a day or two. For a ham weighing twelve or fourteen pounds, prepare a pickle consisting of a pound of salt, half a pound of sugar, an ounce of saltpetre, and a pint and a half of vinegar. Rub the liam well, and turn it every day for a month. Drain and dry, hanging it in a cool place to dry. Then smoke for three weeks. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Ham, Pickle for (to keep for some months).—Put six quarts of water into a large saucepan, with four pounds of salt, three- quarters of a pound of sugar, and three ounces of saltpetre. BoU for twenty minutes. Skim thoroughly. When cold, pour it upon the ham. This pickle will answer equally well for tongues, beef, &c. The meat should be rubbed with salt, and drained for twenty-four hours before it is put in, and care should be taken that the liquid completely covers everypart. The pickle should be boiled up every two or three months. The time required will depend upon the nature and size of the meat, and the degree of saltness desired. A ham of fourteen pounds wiU take about three weeks; a tongue, ten days; a large piece of beef, a fortnight. Probable cost of the pickle, 6d. Ham, Potted.—Take one pound of lean ham and a quarter of a pound of fat, or, in place of this, two ounces of fresh butter. Pound the meat to a smooth paste, and flavour it with a quarter of an ounce of powdered mace and a pinch of cayenne. Press into a dish and bake through gently. When cold pour melted butter over. Keep in a cool place. It may be used for breakfast or luncheon, or for sandwiches. Anj' remains of cold ham may be potted. Dressed ham need not be baked. Lard or dripping should not be poured over the ham while hot. Ham, Roasted.—Soak the ham until it is softened, then put it into a deep pan, and pour over it a bottle of Madeira, or any light wine, and with it four carrots, four onions, and one dozen peppercorns. Turn it over every two or three hours, and leave it imtil the following day. Drain it, put it down before a cle^ar fire, and baste liberally with the liquid in wliich it was soaked. It will require four or five hours to roast, according to the size. Take it up, skin, and glaze it; boil up the gravy, «S:c., which should be sent to table in a turoen. It is a good plan to boil the ham for an hour before it is put into the marinade, when, of course, it will not need to be roasted quite so long. Probable cost, la. per pound. Ham Sandwiches.—Take slices of stale broad, two days old, and the eighth of an mch m thickness. Ciit thorn noatly with a sharji knifo, butter them, and cover one slice evenly with thin slicos of liam, out into ]uooes about an inch in length, and from which all the skin and( 297 ) HAM HAM unpalatable pieces have been removed. Spread a little mustard on tlio ham, and place another slice of bread and butter on the top. Press them together, and cut into pieces about two and a half by two inches. Arrange them neatly on a napkin, and garnish with parsley. Sandwiches ai-e very good made with potted ham, instead of plainly-boiled ham. Probable cost of boiled ham, 2s. 8d. per pound. Ham Sauce for Flavouring Gravies, &;c.—Take the bone of a ham, from which no more slices can be cut. Pick oflf all the meat, and chop the bone into five or six pieces. Put it in a saucepan with half a pint of good un- flavoured stock. Simmer gently for half an hour, stirring occasionally to prevent it burning. Add a bunch of sweet herbs, six peppercorns, andanother half-pint of stock, cover the saucepan closely, and simmer again very gently for two hours. Strain, and put aside for use. This sauce will be found very useful in flavouring gravies, sauces, &c. A little ham improves them so much that it is worth while keeping a ham in cut for no other purpose {see Gravy, To Improve the Colour and Flavour of). Probable cost, 3d. per half-pint, exclusive of the ham-bone. Ham Sauce for Grills and Broils.— Put two ounces of lean ham, already dressed, cut into small dice, into a saucepan with an ounce of butter and a tea-spoonful of finely- minced shallots. Fry them for two or three minutes, then add half a pint of. good brown sauce, a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, and a little cayenne. Stir these over the fire for six or eight minutes, and, just before serving, add a table-spoonful of lemon-juice. Suitable for grills and broils. Probable cost, 6d. Suffi- cient for half a pint of sauce. Ham Sausages, Smoked. German. —Take five pounds of lean pork, minced as finely as possible. Mix with it a pound of fat, also minced, but not quite so smaU, and season it with half an ounce of pepper, the eighth of an ounce of saltpetre, and three ounces of salt. Add the seasoning gradiially, while the meat is being chopped, and moisten with a quarter of a pint of claret or Burgundy. Let the meat stand for six or eight hours in a cool place. Fill the skins, properly prepared, as tightly as possible, pressing the meat down, and not leaving any portion of space unoccupied. To insure this, they should be left for some hours, and then pressed down again. Wind a piece of new tape round them backwards and forwards once, tie it at the end, and hang the sausages in cool smoke for twelve days. They should be from ten to twenty inches in length. They are usually eaten raw, after being kept about a month; but, if it is preferred, they may be simmered gently in water for an hour either before or after smoking, but they must not quite boil. I'ime, two or three days to prepare. Probable cost, Is. 4d. per pound. Ham Scollops.—Cut a pound of ham in scollops a quarter of an inch thick, three inches long, find two broad. Fry them in hot butter until lightly browned on each side, drain them froiri the ffit, and put them on ii hot dish. Pick the leaves from a sprig of young parsley, wash K* it in two or three waters, chop it small, and put a table-spoonful into a saucepan, with three ounces of fresh outter, a little pepper and salt, and a table-spoonful of lemon-juice. Put the mixture on the hob, not on the fire, and keep stirring until it is as thick as custard. Pour it over the scollops, and serve. Time, six minutefl to fry the ham. Probable cost, Is. or Is. 2d. per pound. Sufficient for three persons. Ham, Smoked, Mecklenburg.—In Mecklenbui'g it is usual, after boiling the ham and removing the skin, to sprinkle oVer it bread-crumbs, browned and seasoned Avith powdered cinnamon, powdered cloves, and a morsel of sugar. The proportions are regulated by taste as well as by the strength of the spices. Generally speaking, two cloves, half an inch of cinnamon, and a large lump of sugar would be considered sufficient for a moderate-sized ham. Ham Smoked at Home.—When there is no chimney which can be used for the pur- pose, hams may be smoked as follows:—Fill an old cask, open at both ends, with oak sawdust. Fasten a stick across the top, on which the hams should be hung, and bury in the middle of the sawdust a bar of red-hot iron. Cover the cask, to keep in the smoke, and let the heat be as equal as possible, or the ham will be spoilt. The length of time required ynR de- pend upon the size of the ham. A large one should remain four days. Ham Toast.—Take three ounces of lean ham. Chop it very small, and mix it with the beaten yolk of an egg. Put an ounce of butter into a saucepan, and, when it is melted, stir in the ham and egg, season with cayenne, and, when the mixture is quite hot, spread it upon a slice of hot buttered toast. Serve at once. Time, three or four minutes to heat the ham, &c. Sufficient for one person. Probable cost, 6d. Ham and Chicken Patties.—Line as many small patty-pans as you require with puff-paste. Lay a crust of bread in each, put on the Lid, brush over with well-beaten egg, and bake them in a quick oven, until deli- cately browned. While they are baking, take some ham and chicken, previously finely minced, and freed from sinew and skin. Of this, two-thixds should be chicken, and one-third ham. Flavour nicely with grated lemon-rind, salt, and cayenne. Put the meat into a sauce- pan, with good gravy sufficient to moisten it, squeeze over it a few drops of lemon-juice, and when the patties are sufficiently baked, cut out the top, remove the bread, put in a little of the mince, place the lid over it, and serve, piled on a hot napkin, and garnished according to taste- Time, a quarter of an hour to bake. Probable cost, 3d. each. One pound of flour and three- quarters of a pound of butter will make suffi- cient paste for two dozen patties. Ham and Chicken, Potted {see Chicken and Ham). Ham and Chicken Sandwiches {see Chicken and Ham Sandwiches). Ham and Egg Patties.—Take a stale quartern loaf, remove the crust, and cut the crumb into thick slices, an inch and a halfHAM ( 298 ) HAM thick. Stamp thuso into rounds as hivgo as tho top of an L'gfj cup, and niako a littlo incision with tho point of a sJiai p knif u all round insido each ring, half an incli from tho cdyo. b'vy theso pieces of bread in hot fat till liglitly browned, scrape out tho middle, put a dessert- spoonf ul of nunced ham in each, prepared as in tho last rocipo, and place a poached egg on tlie top of each. Time, three or four minutes to fry the bread. Probable cost, 3d. each. A quartern loaf, will make a do/en patties. Ham and Fowl, Potted.—Take the meat from a cold chicken, and put it into a mortar witli lialf a pound of cooked ham, fat and lean mixed. Pound tliese to a pulp, and season them with pepper and a very Httle pounded mace. Put tho bono and trimmings of the chicken into a saucepan, with a small bunch of sweet herbs, naif a blade of mace, and as much water as Nvill cover them. Boil the meat down to glaze. Mix this and two ounces of clarified butter with the pounded meat. Put it into small jars, and pour clarified butter over the top. Time, about one hour to prepare. Probable cost, Is., exclusive of tho cold chicken. Ham and Fowl, Potted (another way). —See Fowl with Ham, Potted. Ham and Liver, Forcemeat of {see Liver and Ham Forcemeat). Ham and Veal, To Press.—Take equal weights of veal and ham. Remove the bones, rind, &c.,and cut the meat into slices a quarter of an inch in thickness. Pour a quarter of a pint of water into a deep pie-dish, then fill it with alternate layers of veal and ham, and season each layer with salt, pepper, and pounded mace. Put a cover on the meat, with a heavy weight upon it, and put it into a moderate oven until it is quite tender. Do not remove the weight imtil the meat is cold. Both the bottom and the top layer should be composed of veal. A saucer shoiild be put under the pie-dish, to catch any gravy that the weight may force out of it. Time, about three hours to bake six pounds of meat. Sufficient for six or eight per- sons. Probable cost, 6s. Ham. with Aspic Jelly.—The best garnish for a cold ham that is intended to be used at once is aspic jeUy {see Aspic JeUy), as it may be eaten with it. It should be cut into dice, and the dish ornamented with it in any appropriate way. A few carrots and pickles, stamped into shapes, may be added. When a ham is expected to bo kept for some days, however, this garnish should not be used, as it soon spoils. Ham, with Savoury Crust.—Instead of strewing plain browned bread-crumbs over the ham when the skin is taken off, a pleasing variety may bo made by seasoning them with a table-spoonful of sugar and five or six powdered cloves. Put tho ham in a baking-dish, brush it over with beaten egg, and strew tho seasoned crumbs thickly upon it. Place it in a hot oven or before the fire to brown for a few minutes. Ham, wi^h Stewed Veal Cutlets.— C'lt- a slice of h.im with ^ach cutlet, and trim them as nearly as possible to the same shape. Cook them in the stewpau, and serve them with the ham laid upon the cutlet. Dish them in a circle, and pour the sauce in the miuole Uee Veal Cutlets). Ham, with Windsor Beans.—Wind- sor, or broad beans, are a favourite accompaui ■ incut to 1mm. Tliey should be boiled until tender, then drained and steamed over the lire for a few unnutes, with pepper, salt, and a small pat of butter. 'J'hey may be placed round tho liam or on a separate dish ; and, if old, tho skins should be taken off. Parsley and butter should be sent to table in a tureen. Thiie, according to the age of tl a beans, from fifteen to tliiity minutes. Probable cost, 6d. per peck. Sufficient, a peck of beans for five or six persons. Hamburg Beef (prepared in the Ger- man way).—Take about sixty pounds of beef, which may bo composed of seven or eight pieces. Jilix four pounds of salt with four ounces of saltpetre, and rub the meat thoroughly with it. Take a deep tub, gee that it is scru- pulously clean, and wash it out with cold water. Put into it, a handful of the leaves of mar- joram, sweet basil, and thyme, the same of bay- leaves, a dozen cloves, two blades of mace,' a quarter of an ounce of juniper oerries, and two ounces of white pepper. Pack the pieces of beef on part of this seasoning, and sprinkle the rest over, with as much of the salt and salt- petre as could not be rubbed into the beef. Place a weight on the top, and if, at the end of a few days, the hquid does not rise over the hd, pour a pint of strong salt and water into the tub. The smaller pieces can be used at the end of three weeks, the larger should be left for a month. Probable cost. Is. per pound. Hamburg Beef Salad (named Hambro' Salad).—Make a salad with a pint of mixed vegetables, which have been washed, thoroughly dried, and finely shred. Slix with them half a dozen filleted anchovies, three or four sharp apples, finely minced, and a quarter of a pound of dried salmon, cut into small pieces. Season with pepper, salt, \dnegar, and oil, and just before serving, strew over the top, half a pound of Hamburg beef, chopped small. Garnish tho dish, according to taste, with parsley, shoes of hard-boiled egg, beetroot, &c. Time, one hour to prepare. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for five or six persons. Hamburg Beef, Smoked.—Take nhout six or seven pounds weight of the rump, or ribs of beef, and rub a little common salt and coarse sugar into it. Let it remain for two or thi-ee days, and turn it frequently. Drain and wipe the meat. Pound and mix thoroughly a quarter of a pound of common salt, a quarter of a pound of bay salt, an ounce of saltpetre, half an ounce of pepper, and half a dozen pounded cloves. Rub these well into the beef, and turn it every day for a fortnight. Take it up, drain it, roll it tightly in a cloth, and smoke it for ton or twelve days. It may be cooked whole, or in pieces, but if boiled whole should be pressed under a weight until cold. Probable cost, Is. per jiound. Hamburg Beef, Smoked. To BoiL— Soak the meat in lukewarm water, and ifl it remain over-night, then dry it, and cut away( 299 ) HAM HAR any discoloured parts. Trim and roll it neatly and firmly, and bind it with tapes. Put k into plenty of cold water, remove the scum carefully, and let it boil until no more rises, then draw it to the side of the fire, and simmer gently luitil done enough. If two or three carrots and onions are boiled with the beef, the flavour will be im- proved. Strew grated bread-crumbs over it before serving. Time, as a general rule half an hour may be given for each pound, after the water has boiled. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Sufficient, beef weighing seven pounds for twelve persons. Hamburg Pickle.—Take a gallon of water, that has been boiled. Mix with it two pounds and a half of common salt, a pound and a half of moist sugar, an ounce of salt- petre, and half a pint of vinegar. Simmer for twenty minutes, skim carefully, and, when cold, put in the beef, which should be turned every day, and will be ready for smoking in three weeks. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient, for five quarts of pickle. Hamburg Pickle (Improved). If bay salt be substituted for the common salt in the last recipe, the fiavour of the meat will be much improved, though the expense will be slightly increased. This pickle will remain good for nearly twelve mcnths if it is boiled again occa- sionally, with a httle more salt, saltpetre, and sugar, to make up for waste. Hampshire Pudding (sometimes called Hertfordshire Pudding).—Line the edge of a pie-dish with good puif-paste. Spread some jam at the bottom of the dish, about an inch thick. Beat the yolks of three, and the whites of two eggs, thoroughly. Add to them three ounces of loaf sugar, pounded and sifted, and three ounces of melted butter. Boat these together imtil they are quite thick, pour the mixture over the jam, and bake in a moderate oven till the pastry is baked. Probable cost. Is. Suf- ficient for three or four persons. Hannah More's Pudding.—Shred a quarter of a pound of beef suet very finely, mix with it half a pound of finely-grated bread- crumbs, a quarter of a pound of stoned raisins, a quarter of a pound of moist sugar, and a quarter of a pound of chopped apples, weighed after they are pared and cored. Add a pinch of salt, a quarter of a nutmeg, grated, two ounces of candied-lemon, chopped small. When these ingredients are thoroughly mixed, stir into them four well-beaten eggs and two table- spoonfuls of brandy. Pour into a well-buttered mould, plunge it into boiling water, and boil for 3 hours. Probable cost, lOd., exclusive of the brandy. Sufficient for four or five persons. Hanover Buns. —Mix a large table- spoonful of fresh yeast with three table-spoon- fuls of warm milk, add a quarter of a pound of fine flour, and leave it to rise. Beat six ounces of butter to a cream, add a pinch of salt, a table- spoonful of sugar, half a pound of flour, and the thin rind of a lemon minced as small as possible. Moisten this with the yolks of three and the white of one egg, add the yoast, &c., and beat it well with the hand until air-bubbles begin to rise. The dough should be of the usual consistency. Make it into small cakes, and set them on a buttered tin a little distanoa from each other. Put them in a warm place, and, when nicely risen, brush them over with beaten egg, and bake them in a good oven till brightly browned. Strew a little powdered sugar over them before serving. If fresh yeast cannot be obtained, three-quarters of an ounco of German yeast may be substituted for it. Time, about twenty minutes to bake. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for a dozen buns. Hanover Sauce (suitable for fowls, &c). —Soak the thin rind of half a lemon in half a pint of cream for an hour or more. Boil the liver, and pound it in a mortar, with a dessert- spoonful of lemon-juice and a little salt and cayeime. Add the strained cream. Stir it over the -fire for a few minutes. It must not boil. Serve in a tureen. Probable cost; Is. Sufficient for three or fom- persons. Harbour Balls.—Put one pint of milk and one ounce of butter into a saucepan, and when the butter is melted, pour the milk over two pounds of fiour. Make up into a stifl:' dough, and add a pinch of salt, a tea-spoonful of moist sugar, and a table-spoonful of yeast mixed with a well-beaten egg. Cover the bowl wdth a cloth, and let it remain on the hearth for half an hour, then make it into smaU round balls, place them at a little distance from each other on buttered tins, and bake in a quick oven. Time, about twenty minutes to bake. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for three dozen balls. Hard, or Suffolk Dumplings.—Put a salt-spoonful of salt into a pound of flour, and mix it with as much water as will make it into a stiff paste. Divide the paste into half a dozen balls, dip these in flour, throw them into a pan of fast-boiling water, and let them boil for three- quarters of an hour. Put a little butter in the middle of each ball, or send gravy to table with them. Probable cost, 2d. Sufficient for six persons. {See also Dumplings, Plain.) ^ Hare, Baron of (a German recipe).—In Gei-many a hare is frequently made up into two dishes, and may be served at diflierent times, which, when the family is small, is often a con- venience. The baron, which consists of the back and thighs, is the superior dish, and it is this to which the present recipe refers. Directions for cooking the inferior parts will be given in a succeeding paragraph {see Hare Pepper). Divide the hare into two parts, cutting close to the shoulder-blades. Leave the kidneys in the loins, and remove the thin skin from the back. Rub the hare over with moist sugar, and leave it for three or four hours, then put it into a deep dish with a finely-minced onion, a bay- leaf, a dozen juniper berries, and a quarter of a pint of vinegar. Let it remain in this mari- nade for two days, turning and basting it fre- quently. Drain it and lard it in neat rows with thin strips of bacon. Put it down before a clear fire until it is nicely browned, then put it into a stewpan with the marinade, a tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonftil of pepper, and the contents of the dripping-pan taken fi-om under it. Cover the saucepan closely, and le t the meat steam untU tender, basting frequently duringHAB ( 300 ) iiAii the process. Put the hare into a hot dish, aqnoozo tlio jiiico of a loinou over it, and send till) sfiuco iu which it was stowed to tuhlo in a tiu'eon, after having strained and thickened it, and added a hirgo table-spoonful of red currant jelly and a wine-glassful of claret. Time, three- quarters of an liour to roast, thi'oe-quiirters of an hour to steam. Sufficient for four or five pei-sons. Probable cost of hare, 3s. Gd. to 68. Hare, Batter for Basting.—Beat the yolks of two eggs, and the white of one. Mix smoothly with them two table-spoonfuls of Hour, and add a pinch of salt, a table-spoonful of oil, and a pint of milk. When the hare is about thrce-piu'ts roasted, baste it with the batter, until the latter stiffens, and forms a covering over t]\e hare. Care must be taken not to let this burn. Time, a few minutes to prepare. Pro- bable cost, Sd. Sufficient for one hare. Hare, Beef Rolled as {see Beef Rolled as Hare). Hare, Beef Stewed as {see Beef Stewed as Hare). Hare Braised.—Stuff the hare with a suitable forcemeat {see Hare, Forcemeat for). Sew it up securely, and lay slices of bacon on it, put it into a braising-pan, with two finely- minced shallots, a scraped carrot, four button- mushi-ooms, or, in place of these, a table-spoon- ful of mushroom ketchup, and a pint of good stock. Place three ounces of butter on the hare, put the lid on the pan, and simmer gently for three hours or more. Strain the gravy, thicken it with a dessert-spoonful of flour, mixed smoothly with a little cold water, add a glass of sherry, Madeira, or claret, simmer a few minutes longer, and serve. Send red currant jelly to table with the hare. Probable cost of hare, 3s. 6d. to 6s. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Hare, Broiled.—Season the legs and shoulders of a cold roast hare, salt and cayenne, broil them over a clear fire, rub some cold butter over them, and serve as quickly as possible on a hot dish. Time, five minutes to broil. Suf- ficient for three persons. Hare Cakes.—Take the remains of cold roast hare, and mince it finely with a quarter of its weight of finely-shred suet. Pound the mince in a mortar, and season rather highly with salt and cayenne. Bind it together with beaten egg and a little milk. The yolk of one egg and a table-spoonful of milk will be suf- ficient for a pound of hare. Make the mince up into small cakes, dip these in flour, and fry them In hot dripping or lard. Serve them on a hot dish, pour round thein some gravy made with the bones and trimmings of the hare, and garnish the dish with toasted sippets. Time, five or six minutes to fry the cakes. Probable cost, 4d., exclusive of the cold meat. Sufficient for three persons. Hare, Choosing a.- If the cleft in the [ip of a hare is widely spread, the claws blunt, and the ears tough and hard, the animal is old, and should be jugged, stewed, or made into soup, but never roasted. When the body is stiff, the hare is fresh; if limp, it is stale. A oare should be tunp: bv the hind''syp. and is aiwavB better if it is not paunched for four car five days after being killed. If it is abeady paunched, the liver sliould bo taken out and scalded, the lioart removed, and the inside of the Imro wiped dry every day. If a small piece of charcoal be put in the inside, it will help to keep the liaro. A liare should be hung for ten days or a fortnight, in cold weather, before bemg cooked. Hare, Civet of.—This dish may be made either with the rerruiins of cold roast hare or with an uncooked hare. In the former case, the meat would require to be wanned for a few minutes only in the gravy; in the latter, it would have to be stewed with it. Divide the hare into small neat pieces, and fry them for a few minutes with half a pound of fat bacon, cut into dice, and two ounces of butter. When lightly browned, lift out the meat and bacon, and mix a table-spoonful of flour smoothly into the fat. Add gradually a pint and a half of stock, and put it into a stewpan with the bones of the hare, half a dozen small onions, half a blade of mace, a bay-leaf, a tea-spoonful of salt, a drachm of cayenne, a smaU lump of sugar, and a few i mushrooms, or, in place of these, a tea-spoonful of mushroom-powder or a table-spoonful of ketchup. Simmer gently for an hour, then I strain the gravy, put in the pieces of meat, with the bruised liver, a cupful of blood, and half a tumblerful of port. Simmer again as long as the meat requires it, and serve as hot as possible. The juice of half a lemon is by some considered an improvement. Time, altogether, about two hours. Probable cost of hare, from 3s. 6d. to 6s. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Hare, Civet of {see also Civet of Hare). Hare CoUops.—Take the remains of cold hare, pick the meat from the bones, mince it finely, and season rather highly vnth. cayeime and salt. For every pound of minced meat put one ounce of butter into the frying-pan, dredge a httle flour over it, add the meat, and keep stirring over the fire till it is a dark brown. Put half a pint of strained gravy, made from the bones and trimmings, into a saucepan, add the coUops, and a glass of port. Simmer gently for half an hour. Serve on a hot dish, vrith toasted sippets for garnish. Probable cost, 4d., exclusive of the cold meat and wine. Sufficient for two or three persons, when made with one pound of minced meat. Hare Cutlets (<i German recipe).—The back of the hare, which is the best part of it, may be divided into cutlets, and fried. The rest may be used for soup, or served some other way. Leave the bones in the cutlets, trim them neatly, and rub into them some salt, pepper, and pounded mace. Mix a dessert-spoonful of finely-minced sweet herbs, and half a tea-spoonful of grated lemon-rind, with a quarter of a piiil^ of bread- crumbs. Dip the cutlets in egg, and afterwnrda in the seasoned bread-crumbs, and fry them in hot butter. Put them in a hot dish, squeeze the juice of a lemon over them, and garnish the dish with slices of hard-boiled egg and pickled gherkins. Time, from twelve to fifteen minutes to fry the cutlets. Pro])able cost of hnro. from 38 6d. to 68 Suffi.c; Mit for thi-ee or four ;)erson8.BAH (SOI ) fiAH Hare (en Daube).—Cut ofH the head of a haie, and truss if securely. Line a braising- pan with slices of bacon, place the hare on it, and with it a calf's foot, broken into small pieces, a largo onion, with four cloves stuck into it, a large bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, two sliced caiTOts, and a quarter of a pint of good stock. Dredge a little pepper over the meat, cover it with slices of bacon, lay three or four folds of buttered paper over the bacon, and simmer slowly for four hours. Strain the gi-avy, boil it till it will jelly, poiir it over the meat, and serve cold. I'robable cost of hare, 38. 6d. to 6s. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Hare, Florendine (sometimes called Koll of Hare).—Take a hare, cut off the head, bone it, dry it well with a soft cloth, and spread the stuffing over the inside. EoU it up, sew it secui-ely with strong thi-ead, and put it into a saucepan, -with as much water as will barely cover it, a tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea- spoonful of pepper, a bunch of parsley, and an orion, stuck with four cloves. Let it simmer very gently for an hour and a half, then drain off a pint and a half of the gravy, and put it into another saucepan, with a table-spoonful of mush- room ketchup, a dessert-spoonful of lemon pickle, and two wine-glassfuls of port. Thicken the gravy with flour, and add a little browning, if necessaiy. Stir it until it is smooth and thick. Put the hare on a hot dish, pour the gravy round it, and let forcemeat balls and stewed mushrooms be served with it. Probable cost of hare, 3s. 6d. to Gs. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Hare, Forcemeat for.—If the liver of the hare is perfectly sound, boil it gently for six minutes, mince it finely, and mix it with six table-spoonfuls of finely-grated bread-crumbs, half a tea-spoonful of fresh lemon-rind, chopped very small, a dessert-spoonful of minced pars- ley, a quarter of a tea-spoonful of thyme, and the same of sweet marjoram, a small tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of pepper, a little cayenne, if this is liked, and two or three grates of nutmeg. Mix the dry ingredients thoroughly, then work into them two ounces of good butter and the yolks of two eggs. If the liver is not sound, it may be omitted, and then one egg only will, be necessary. Everj-thing used in making forcemeat should be quite fresh and sweet, or a very unpleasant flavour may be given to the dish. Probable cost, 6d. Suffi- cient for one hare. Hare, Forcemeat for (another way).— See Forcemeat for Hare. Hare, Gateau of.—Prepare a hare as if for roasting. Cut it into joints. The best parts— the back, thighs, and shoulders—may be used for the gateau, and the remainder for a civet or for soup. Take the meat from the skin and sinews, cut it up, and pound it in a mortar, with one pound of the neck or loin of veal, half a pound of fresh, lean pork, and a quarter of a pound of unsmoked fat bacon. A tftble-spoonful of soup or stock may be added while pounding, so as to make the meat into a smooth paste. Add pepper, milt, and cayenne to taste, together with two or three small onions, finely minced, and a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley. Beat half a dozen law eggs, and add them one at a tinie. Lino the bottom and sides of a baking-dish with slices of fat bacon, cut very thin. Spread the chopped meat over it, about an inch and a half in thickness, and place two or three more slices upon it. Repeat until aU the meat is used, letting bacon be uppermost. Place the skin of the bacon or a coarse crust of flour and water on the top of the dish, to keep in the juices, and bake in a moderate oven. If the oven were hot, the meat would be hard and diy. "When cool, dip the dish into hot water, turn, out the cake, place on a napkin, and garnish according to taste. This dish is good for break- fast or luncheon, and will keep for some days. It should be eaten cold. Time, about four houis to bake. Probable cost of hare, Ss. Cd. to 6s. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Hare, Gateau of (made with cold dressed hare).—Take the flesh fiom the bones of a cold roast hare, remove the skin and sinews, cut it small, and pound it in a mortar with the liver of the hai-e. Take half the weight of the meat, in finely-grated bread-crumbs, soak them in as much good broth as they will absorb, and mix them with the pounded meat. Season with salt, pepper, and spices, according to taste, together with a finely-minced shallot, and a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley. Add two well-beaten eggs. Cover the inside of a mould with slices of bacon. Put in the pounded meat, lay some more slices on the top, and bake in a moderate oven, or put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and let it simmer gently for an honr. Take away the bacon that sun-ounds it, and strew finely-grated bread-crumbs over it. This dish may be eaten either hot or cold. If eaten hot, a sauce should be sent to table with it made of the bones and trimmings of the hare, stewed in a little stock, seasoned, and flavoured. Time, an hour and a half to bake. Probable cost. Is., exclusive of the cold hare. Hare, Gravy for {see Gravy for Hare). Hare, Haricot of .—When the best parts of the hare have been used, the remainder may be cooked as follows:—Divide the hare into small, neat joints. Fry these for three or four minutes in a little butter, then put them into a larger stewpan, with a sprig of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a shallot, finely minced, two turnips and two carrots, cut into small pieces, three or four cloves, and a little pepper and salt. Mix a little flour very smoothly with the butter in which the hare was fried, let :t brown lightly, then add gradually a pint and a half of good stock. Let the sauce boil a minuta or two, then pour it over the hare, &c., and simmer gently for an hour. A dessert-spoonful of chili vinegar, or the same quantity of lemon- juice may be added, if liked. Put the meat into a hot dish, pour the sauce round it, and serve with toasted sippets. Probable cost, 8d., exclu- sive of the hare. Sufficient for three or four persons. Hare, Hashed.—Take the remains of cold roast hare, and cut it into neat pieces. Put a pint of gravy into a saucepan with the trim- mings of the hare, a table-spoonful of red- currant jelly, and salt ajad pepper, if necessaryHAR HAR ' t «02 ) Simmor gontly for twonty miuutos. If there is not so much as a pint of gravy ronmining, it must bo uuida up with water and stuwfjd longer. Strain the gravy, and put it into a saucepan, and with it the pieces of hare, drodgod with flour, and a glass of port. Siumier for a quarter of an hour, then cut the forcemeat into slices, and put them into the gravy for three or four minutes, to get hot, then servo in a hot dish. Probable cost, exclusive of the cold meat and wine, 2d. JSufliciont for throe or four persons. Hare, Hashed (another way).—When no gravy remains from the previous day's din- ner, cut the liaro into neat pieces, and put the bones and trimmings aside for use. Fry throe small onions and an ounce of bacon, cut into dice, in a little butter, take them out when done, and mix a table-spoonful of flour very smoothly with the fat. Add gradually a pint of water, a blade of mace, a bunch of savoury herbs, a bay-loaf, a sprig of parsley, five or six chives, the bones and trimmings, and a little Siilt and pepper. Simmer gently for an hour after the gravy has boiled. Strain the gravy, put in the pieces of hare and a table-spoonful of red ciuTant jolly. Boil for five minutes, and serve on a hot dish, with toasted sippets round. A little blood is an improvement to this dish as well as to many others when the knowledge of its presence is confined to the cook, but modem taste is rather opposed to it. Probable cost, exclusive of the cold hare, 6d. Sufficient Jor three or four persons. Hare, Jugged.—A hare nicely jugged is to be preferred to one cooked in any other way. Cut the hare into pieces, not one of which is larger than an egg. Fry these in a httle butter till they are lightly browned, di-ain them, and out them at once into a wide-mouthed stone jar, and pour upon them a large glassful of port. The dregs of one or two bottles, if taken care of, will answer excellently for the purpose. Tie a cloth securely over the mouth of the jar, and leave the pieces of meat in the wine for about twenty minutes. Untie the jar, and pour over the meat a little good brown gravy, strongly flavoured with onion. Add an inch of stick cinnamon, six cloves, two bay leaves, the juice of half a lemon, and a table-spoonful of the forcemeat sprinkled lightly over all. Cover the jar again, and very closely put it up to its neck in a saucepan of boiling water, and keep the water boiling round it for about an hour and a half. If more convenient the jar can be placed in the oven, in a shallow dripping tin, filled with boiling water. When this is done, it will need to be baked from two hours and a half to three hours, and care must be taken to Icocp up the supply of boiling water round it. Make up some good hare forcemeat {see Hare, Forcemeat for) into small balls the size of marbles, fry these in hot fat, and put them into the jar a minute or two before it is taken out of the oven. This dish will be much imjjroved, and will go further if a pound of steak is added, cut into very thin slices, two inches long by an inch and a half broad. Those; slices should have a little forcemeat spread upon each one, tlicn be rolled up, fastened with a small skewer, and fried and stewed with the hare. 'I'he gravy which is used for jugged hare will be better if thick(;ned with arrowroot rather tlum willi brown tliicken- ing. Serve red cunant jolly with this dieh. Excellent hare soup may be mude of the remains of jugged hare prepared in this way {nee Hare, Roast, Cold). Probable cost, supposing the hare to cost 3b. 6d., and with one pound of beef, Gs. Hare. Jugged, Mock.—Take two pounds of beef steak ; cut thorn in pieces an inch and a half square, di]) the pieces in flour, and frj' till brown in a little fat. Add as much water or stock as will cover them, a large onion stuck with eight cloves, a bunch of parsley and thyme, the thin rind of a quarter of a lemon, a bay-leaf, and a small carrot. Cover the saucepan closely, and simmer gently for two hours. Have some good h;ire forcemeat ready, make it into small balls, and stew these in the gravj' with the meat for the last half hour. Just before serving, add pepper, salt, 1 and a wine-glassful of port. Serve on a hash dish, and garnish with the forcemeat balls. Send red currant jeUy to table on a glass dish. Probable cost, 28. 8d., exclusive of the wine. Sufficient for four or five persons. Hare, Jugged (Yorkshire mode).—Make half a pound of good forcemeat. Divide the hare into joints, and put it into a deep earthen jar, with a poxmd of beef steak and half a pound of fat bacon. Put the beef and hare in layers, and place the piece of bacon in the middle of them. Season as in the last recipe. Pour over the hare a pint of stock and half a pint of blood. Cover the jar closely, and bake in a good oven for two hours and a half. Let the forcemeat balls be put in with the rest for the last half hour, and, ten minutes before the hare is served, add a glass of port. Be careful to lift the balls out gently, so as not to break them, and send red currant jelly to table on a glass dish. Probable cost, 6s. 6d., sup- posing the hare to cost 3s. 6d. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Hare, Larded.—The flesh of hare is such dry food, that it is a saying amongst cooks that " a hare with twelve penn^nvorth of sauce is worth a shilling." ^^^len old, it ought never to be roasted without being larded, and a young hare is much improved by the same process. The fore part of the animal may be reserved for stewing, or for soup. Truss the hind part securely; pass one leg through the other, and fasten the skin round with skewers. Hold the back and legs before a clear fire for three or four minutes to "set" the flesh. Lard the thick part of the back and legs with thin strips of fat bacon {sec Larding); cover with one or two folds of buttered paper, and roast before a clear fire for three-quarters of an hour. Take off the paper during the last ten minutes, thiit the hare may be equally coloured all over. Garnish the dish with force- meat balls, and send red ciirrant jelly to t^iblo with it. Sufficient for four or five persons. Pro- bable cost of hare, from 38. 6d. to 6s. Hare, Liver Sauce for.—Simmer the livor for a quarter of an hour in pood beef gra^•3•, mince it finely, and with it a small( 303 ) HAB onion. Add a dessert-spoonful of cliili vinegai-, II l.iuiti-spooaiiil ox cunuuc jelly, and tlu'ee o^ yon wine. Utiv the sauue over the lire till hot, and serve. Kulticient for four- or live persons. Probable cost, 4d., exclusive of the wine. Hare, Mutton Gravy for. —Cut a pound of the scrag of mutton in pieces; brown thorn in a little butter, and pom- over them a pint ivnd a half of boiling water. Let the ^ravy l.oil up, add two cloves, half an inch of cinna- mon, a pinch of mixed herbs, with pepper and salt. Simmer gently an hour or more. Strain the gravy, free it from fat, thicken it, add a giU of port, and serve in a tureen. Hare, Ovened.—Instead of hashing hare, it may be wanned up as follows:—Take the remains of cold hare and pick the meat from the bones. Divide it into small neat pieces. Cut half a pound of fat bacon into dice. Fry these in butter till slightly browned, and put them at the bottom of a deep pie-dish, fc^trew a handful of finely-grated bread-crumLs over them, and on this place the pieces of hare, sea- soned with pepper and salt. Cut some button- mushrooms into halves, stew them partially, and lay them on the hare, and over them another layer of bread-crumbs. Distribute little pieces of butter over the surface, and enough broth to prevent the whole getting dry and hard. This ehould be added in small quantities, as required. Putthe dish into a tin filled with water, and heat in the oven. If mushrooms are not to be had, supply their place with mashed potatoes, and add a little ketchup to the broth which is used to moisten the hare. Time, three-quarters of an hour to bake. Probable cost. Is., exclusive of the cold hare. Sufficient for four or five persons. Hare Pasty (a German recipe).—Skin the hare, and cut it into joints or half-joints; lard these with thin strips of bacon, and lay them in a deep dish, with an omon, finely minced, twenty juniper berries, a bay-leaf, a dozen peppercorns, and a quarter of a pint of vinegar. Let them remain in this marinade twelve hours, turning and basting them frequently. Drain the pieces of hare, and put them into a stewpan with three ounces of butter. Cover the pan closely, and let them steam until tender. Take them out, and put into the stewpan half the marinade and half a pint of good, nicely-seasoned gravy. Boil the liver, mince it finely, and make a force- meat by mixing with it a quarter of a pound of bacon, half a pound of pork, four ounces of finely-grated brcad-cmmhs, a quarter of a nut- meg, grated, some salt and pepper, a tea-spoon- ful of minced parsley, half as much powdered thyme, and two well-beaten eggs. Stir this over a gentle fire until it is sufficiently cooked. Spread half the forcemeat on the bottom of a haking-dif»h, put the pieces of hare upon it, with the rest of the forcemeat between them. Pour in a quarter of a pint of the gravy, and lay two or three thin slices of bacon over the whole. Cover the dish with a good crust, and bake in a moderate oven for an hour and a half. Boil the gravy down a little, and pour it through a hole in the lid. This pasty may be eaten either hot or cold. Probablf> cost of" hare, 38. 6d. to 68. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Hare Pasty (anot]it.r way).—Cut the hare into convenient-sized pieces, and cook them par- tially in a little good gravy, lake a pound of sausage-meat and a pound of well-chopped veal, mix them together, and spread a layer of the forcemeat at the bottom of a buttered pie-dish. Put the pieces of hare upon it, and the rest of the forcemeat between them. Sprinkle over them thi'ee finely-minced shallots, two tea- spoonfuls of chopped parsley, a tea-spoonful of thyme, and a little salt and pepper. The quantity of salt used must depend upon the saltness of the bacon. Lay two or three thin shoes of bacon over the whole, and pour in a quarter of a pint of blood and half a pint of the gravy in which the hare was stewed. Cover the dish with a good crust and bake in a moderate oven. This pasty may be eaten either hot or cold. Time, two hours to bake. Pro- bable cost of hare, Ss. 6d. to 6s. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Hare Pepper,—Cut the hare into small convenient-sized j oints. Fry these in hot butter untn nicely browned, and with them one onion, sliced, and three ounces of bacon, cut into dice. Take out the hare, &c., while you brown two table-spoonfuls of flour in the butter. Add gra- dually a pint and a half of water or stock, and, when it is smoothly mixed., put in the pieces of hare, six or eight peppercorns, the rind of half a lemon, four or five cloves, and the gravy fi'om the dish in which the hare lay. Simmer gently for an hour or more. Put the pieces of hare into a dish, strain the gravy over them, and garnish with sliced lemon. When the hind- most part of the hare has been already served, the inferior joints are excellent cooked thus. The head should be split in two and the liver cut into two or three pieces. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for three or four persons. Hare Pie.—Skin the hare, cut it into con- venient-sized joints, season these with pepper and two pounded cloves, and fry them in hot butter for ten or fifteen minutes, then put them aside to cool. Pound the liver in a mortar with four ounces of bacon, a shallot, finely minced, a tea-spoonful of parsley, a tea-spoonful of thyme, and half a tea-spoonful of pepper. Whilst pound- ing add the blood till the forcemeat is of the proper consistency, or, if blood is not liked, a glass of port or the yolk of an egg may be substituted. The head and inferior parts may be stewed for gravy, with the same seasoning which would he used for jugged hare. Line the edge of a pie-dish with good crust, arrange the hare and the forcemeat inside it in alternate layers, cover the whole with thin slices of bacon, and pour over it half a pint of the gravy, to which hps been added a tea-spoonful of red currant jelly, and, if liked, a glass of port. Bake in a good oven and serve hot. Time, an horn- and a half to bake. Probable cost of hare, 3s. 6d. to 6s. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Hare Pie (another way).—Skin a hare, cut it into small pieces, season them with pep- per, salt, and two pounded cloves, and put them into a deep jar, which must be covered closely, placed in a saucepan of boiling water, and hoiled for an hour. Line the edges of a pie-HAR ( 304 ) diah with good crust, put in tho piocos of haro, and pom- ovur tliom half a pint of good l)iown gra\'y luid, if liked, a glans of port. Covor tho dish with pastry, and buko in a modorato ovon. Timo, two hours to bake. Probaljlo coat of haro, Sa. 6d. to 68. Suihciont for six or sovon persons. Hare Pie, Raised.- Make a crust with a pound and a half of flour, three-quarters of a pound of butter or lai-d, a pinch of salt, ajid balf a pmt of water. Put it aside for a little while. Cut a haro which has hung for a week or a fortnight into neat joints, and bone it, if practicable. When emptying it, bo cai-oful to preserve the blood, ilince half a pound of loan veal and haK a pound of fat bacon very finely. Pound thom in a mortar; i add tho blood in small quantities whilst pound- ! ing. Eoll the paste to the thickness of half an | inch in tho proper shape. Butter the mould, - press the pastry into it, fill it with alternate I layers of forcemeat and hare, fill the cavities with forcemeat and jellied gravy, lay two or three slices of bacon on the top, put on the pastry cover, brush it over with beaten egg, ] ornament the sides and top, and make a hole in the centre. Bakp for three hours. In order to ascertain whether th* pie is sufiiciently cooked, pierce it with a skswer. If it goes through the meat easily the pie may be taken out. Of course this can only be done when the meat is boned. No gi'avy should be put into the pie until after it is baked. This pie is to be eaten cold. Probable cost of hare, from 3s. 6d. to 6s. Sufficient for six or eight persons. {See Eaised Pies, To Form.) Hare, Potted.—Skin a hare and cut it into joints. Divide two pounds of bacon into square pieces of about two inches, and fry them in three ounces of butter. Put into the pan with them the pieces of hare, a small sprig of parsley, thyme, and sweet marjoram, two bay- leaves, a shallot, eight cloves, one blade of j mace, a pinch of cayenne, a dozen peppercorns, and a little salt, if required. Fry them for a ) few minutes, then moisten with half a pint of | good gravy. Cover the pan closely, and ] simmer gently for an hour and a half. Drain the pieces of hare from the liqmd, pick the meat from the bones, remove the skin and sinew, mince it finely, and pound it in a mortar. Mix with it the fat and bacon, also pounded, and taste if the paste is sufficiently seasoned. Add the liquid, first boiling it down till it is reduced to three-quarters of a pint, and then passing it through a hail" sieve. Put the mixture into jars, cover thesowith a coarse paste of flour and water, and bake in a moderate oven for an hour. Take them out, and, when cool, cover the jars with melted lard or butter and after- wards with bladder. If prepared in this way and kept in a cool place, the hare wiU keep good for several weeks. Probable cost, 6s. 6d., sup- posing tho haro to cost Ss. 6d. Sufficient for ten or twelve persona. Hare, Potted (from cold meat).—Take tho remains of cold roast hare. Pick tho meat from the bones, put it, freed from skin and sinew, into a mortar, and pound till it IS a smooth paste. If there ia a pound of moat, mix with it a salt-spoonful of salt, a salt-spoonful of popper, luilf a suit-spoonful of mustard, a salt-spoonful of sugar, and two clovus, pounded; also a quarter of a pint of cold gravy and four ounces of clarified butter. Wlion the ingredients are thorougliiy blended, put the meat into a disli, nmke it smootli and even, and pour over it two ounces of melted butter. Keep it in a cool place until required for uso. Time, about one hour to prepare. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of the cold meat. Suflicient for five or six persons. Hare Ragout.—Divide the hare into neat joints. Put tlie best parts—namely, the back, shoulders, and legs—into a deep dish; pour over as much vinegar as will barely cover them, and put with them one bay-leaf, a Lirge onion, with six cloves stuck in it, half a dozen peppercorns, and half a dozen shallots. Let them remain in the marinade for twenty-four hours. Put two ounces of butter, three sliced onions, and three tea-spoonfuls of flour into a stewpan. Set the pan ui)on a moderate fire, and stir well with a wooden spoon tiU the onions are brightly browned; add gradually a quart of water, make the mixture quite smooth, then put with it a bunch of herbs, four allspice, a sliced carrot, the inferior pieces of hare, such as the head, neck, liver, heart, and ribs, and a quarter of a pound of bacon, cut into slices. Simmer gently for an hour. Strain the gravy, and leave it imtil the following day, when the fat can be removed entire. Drain the hare from the vinegar and stew it in the gravy until tender. Add salt and pepper, if required. Serve with forcemeat balls round the dish. A glass of port is always an improvement to hare, but this may be added or not. Time, three- quarters of an hour to stew the hare. I'ro- bable cost, 3s. 6d. to 6s. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Hare, Roast.—An old hare may be jugged or stewed, but should never be roasted. Choose one, therefore, not more than three-quarters grown. The longer it can be kept good the better it will be. It is best not to be opened for three or four days, and the vent and mouth may be tied up if it is wished to keep it as long as possible. As soon as it is paunched the liver and heart should be taken out and scalded, the inside wiped dry every day, and dusted with pepper, and the hare hung head down- wards in a cool diy place. As soon as it begins to grow limp it should be cooked. If there is any suspicion that it has been kept too long, let it lie in vinegar and water for an hour before it is put to the fire. Skin and wash the haro inside, wipe it outside with a damp cloth, and dry it. Pierce the skin of the neck, and any parts where the blood has settled, with the point of a sharp knife, and holdit in luke- warm water to draw the blood out. Fill it with good forcemeat, sew it up, and truss it firmly. Put it some distance from the fire at first, and when it is hot throughout place it nearer. It must be basted constantly, or it will bo drj' and hard. The usual plan is to baste it with salt and water for the firet quarter of an hour, then to pour this away, and use a( 305 ) HAB HAB pint and a half of milk, and, when this is dried up, linish with a little butter. It is a better pliui, however, to use good beof di-ipping until the lust few minutes. When the hare is nearly done enough, ilour it, and baste it with butter till it is nicely bro'svned. The time required for roasting wiU depend upon its age and size. A moderate-sized hare ynll take from an hour and a quarter to an hour and three-quarters; a large one two hours. Ta-ke the hare up, re- move the string and skewers, and send a little good brown gi'avy to table with it, and the rest in a tureen. Red currant jelly should always accompany roast hare. Probable cost, 3a. 6d. to 6s. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Hare, Roast (another way).—Truss and stuff the hare as in the last recipe. Put it do\vn before a clear fire for a few minutes, to set the flesh, then cover it all over with slices of fat pork or bacon. Eoast it the usual time, and send good brown gravy and red currant jelly to table with it. Time, one and a quarter to two hours. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. to 6s. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Hare, Roast (German way). — Put a quarter of a pint of vinegar and a quarter of a pint of water into a saucepan, with a sliced onion, two bay-leaves, half a dozen peppercorns, a tea-spoonful of parsley and thyme, and three cloves. Boil the marinade, and when cold pour it over a young hare, trussed for roasting, but not stuffed. Let it remain for .twenty-four hours, and baste it frequently. Lard it, and put it do\vn before a clear fire, or bake it in a moderate oven. Baste it with the Liquid and a little butter or dripping. A little while before it is done baste it ^vith new milk. Squeeze the juice of a lemon over it before serving, and garnish the dish with sliced lemon. Time, an hour and a quarter to roast. Probable cost, 38. 6d. to 6s. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Hare, Roast, Cold.—Good hare soup may be made of the remains of cold roast hare. Chop it small, and put it with the stuffing and three quarts of water into a saucepan. Let it simmer gently for two hours. If no stuffing remains, the usual herbs and seasoning must be added. Rub it through a sieve, boil up, and serve. A glassful of red wine may be added, if liked. Sufficient for four or five persons. Hare, Roast, Liver Sauce for {see Liver Sauce for). Hare, Roast, Mock.—Take the inside lean from a sirloin of beef, or a thick rump steak weighing about three pounds, spread on it some good hare forcemeat, roll and tie it securely with tape, and fasten it on a spit. Roast it be- fore a clear fire, baste liberally, and send good brown gravy and red currant jelly to table with it. Time, about an hour to roast. Probable cost, 48. Sufficient for five or six persons. Hare, Roast, To Carve.—Insert the point of the knife under the shoulder, and cut from that down to the rump, along the sides of the backbone. The slices should be moderately thick. Another way of carAang hare is to remove Lhe shoulders "and legs, and cut the back crosswise into four or five pieces. This, however, can only be done when the hare is very young, or when it has been toned. When cooking is set about on a grand scale, the backbone of hares, and especially of old hares, is usually taken out, thus rendering the labour of cai-ving much easier. To separate the leg, put the knife between the leg and the back, and give it a little turn inwards at the KOASr RARE. joint, which you must try to hit and not to break by force. The shoiilders must be taken off by cutting in a circular line round them. These last are kno-wTi as the sportsman's pieces; some prefer them, but generally they are thought little of, and axe served only when the other portions of the hare are exhausted. The most delicate part is the back ; after that come the thighs. When every one is helped, take off' the head. The upper and lower jaw should be divided by inserting the knife between them; this will enable you to lay the upper part of the head conveniently on the plate. That being done, cut it in two. The ears and biains ai'c highly-prized by connoisseurs. With each slice of hare some of the stuffing should be served. And some of the gi'avy should accompany it. This is an important point, for roast hare is naturally dryish, and requires the aid of plenty of gravy to be properly relished. Hare, Sauce for.—Crmnble three ounces of bread as if for bread sauce. Let it soak in port wine, and, when quite soft, beat it over the fire with an ounce of butter, a table-spoonful of red currant jeUy, a little salt, and a table spoonful of chili vinegar. Serve as hot as possible. Time, a few minutes after the bread is soaked. Probable cost, 4d., exclusive of the wine. Sufficient for four or five persons. Hare, Sauce for (another way).—Fry a sliced carrot and a sliced onion in a little butter until lightly browned. Pour overthem half apint of brown sauce, nicely seasoned, add a blade of mace, a httle salt and pepper, if necessary, and a quarter of a pint of stock, and simmer gently for half an hour. Strain the gravy, stir into it two table-spoonfuls of red currant jelly and a' table-spoonful of vinegar, and serve in a tureen. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Hare Scollops (French).—Cut the fillet or meaty part of the back of a hare into pieces half an inch thick and two inches wide. Put them with two ounces of butter into a stewpnn and fry them unti] ligbtlv browned. Pour oi\ the butter, and put hall apint of good brownHAR ( 306 ) 6auce into the pan; tliiukon it with thi-eo tablc- Bpoonfiils oi" thu bloo l uf the hare. Simmer gently for twenty minutes. Add a glass ol' port or BurguiLdy. I'ut the scoJiops into a croustado (see Uroustado) on a hot dish, pour tho sauco over thorn, and servo. I'robablo cost, 8d., oxclusivo of tho haro and wino. Sullicient for two or tlu-oo persons. Hare Soup.—Tako a fine hare, skin and empty it, cut it into joints, tako out tho eyes, spUt tho head in two, and put it, with two pounds of thri shin of boof, cut into small pieces, into a saucepan, with a gallon of cold water. Remove the scum as it rises, and, when the water boils, put with it two onions, with throe cloves in each, two or three sliced carrots, half a dozen peppercorns, and half a di-achm of bruised celery-seed, tied in muslin. Let tho soup simmer very gently for two hours, then take out the best joints, remove the meat from the bones, return the latter to the stewpan, and simmer again for another hour, during the latter part of which a- dessert-spoonful of salt and a bunch of sweet herbs, tied in muslin, may be added. If these are put into the soup too soon, their flavour will evaporate. Fry two chopped onions in a little butter, mix very smoothly with them two table-spoonfuls of ground rice or flour, moisten with a Httle of the hquid, then add it to the rest. After it has boiled, strain it through a colander, pick off the meat from the pieces of hare which were left in the soup, pound it in a mortar, pass it through a coarse sieve, and return it to the liquid; put in the pieces of hare which were set aside, and when they are tho- roughly heated, add the blood of the hare, if this is liked. A little of the soup must be mixed with the blood at first, and it must then be added to the rest. The soup must only simmer a few minutes after the blood is added, for fear it should curdle. The addition of the blood is considered by many a great improvement, but by others is strongly objected to. Add a quarter of a pint of port, and serve with force- meat balls in the tureen. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Probable cost, 2s. per quart, supposing the hare to cost 3s. 6d. Hare Soup, (another and a richer way).—Cut a hare into neat joints, and put them into a stewpan, with four ounces of butter, half a poimd of lean ham, cut small, two sliced carrots, two sliced onions, a sprig each of parsley, marjoram, and thyme, a blade of mace, four or five cloves, a bay-leaf, and four shallots. Fry them for three or four minutes. Pour over them three quarts of good Scock, and simmer gently for two hours from uhe time when the soup boils, being careful to clear off the scum as it rises. Strain the soup. Re- move the meat from the back of the hare, and put it aside. Pick off all the rest from the bones, and pound it and the ham in a mortar, with two ounces of stale bread-crumbs, which have been soaked in the liquid. Pass the paste through a sieve, mix it with half a pint of port, return it to the saucepan, and simmer a quarter of an hour longer. Season with salt and caycmne according to taste, put in tho pieces from tho back, and, when these are hot, servo immediately. Time, altogether, three hours. Probable cost, HAR •2h. Od. per quart, exclusive of the wine. Suffi- cient lor cxgJit or ton porsons. Hare Soup (made from the remains of jugg.^d hare)._J>i, k out tlie best of the meat, and divide it into pieces large enough for a mouthful. Put these on a plate, cover them over, and keep them in a cool place till wanted. 1 lit all the rest of the hare, bones, and trim- mings, and stufling, and gravy into a saucepan, pour over it as much good stock (see Stock made from Bones) as will cover it, and add eight or nine outer sticks of celery and a slice of stale crumb of bread. Simmer all gently together till the celery is tender. Strain the soup, pick out the bones, and rub the celery and all else that remains patiently through a sieve. I'he more there is passed through the better! Mix the pulp with the stock, put the soup back into the saucepan, and let it boil up again. If too thin, a httle brown thickening may be added, but hare soup should not be too thick. Put the pieces of meat in the soup, add salt and cayenne to taste, and when it is quite hot, without boiling, throw in a glass of port and a little jelly. Add a squeeze of lemon-juice, and serve at once. Time to simmer the bones and trimmings about one hour and a half. Hare Soup; Mock.—Take a bullock's heart. Wash and clean it, cut away the fat, pipes, &c., and soak it in vinegar and water for twelve hom's. Drain the water from it, and cut it into shces, place these in a deep jar which has a closely-fitting Ud belonging to it, and pour over it three quarts of water. Add a large onion stuck with six cloves, a small lump of sugar, half a dozen peppercorns, a bunch of savoury herbs, a piece of bread toasted till it is brown and hard, and two ounces of butter, rolled in flour. Place the Hd on the jar, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and let it remain for five or six hours. The water in the saucepan must be replenished as it boils away, and it must never be so high that it will reach to the top of the jar. If at the end of five hours the meat is quite tender, take it up; if not, let it remain another hour. Poimd it in a mortar with the toasted bread, pass it through a sieve, and mix it again with the gravy. . Season it with salt and a httle cayenne, and add more thickening, if required. A glass of port is an improvement. Probable cost of bullock's heart, 28. 6d. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Hare, Stewing.—Cut up a hare into neat joints. Put these into a stewpan with a pint and a half of good gravy, four ounces of raw ham, cut into dice, four shallots, a sprig of parsley and thyme, the liver, finely minced, a blade of maco, half a dozen peppercorns, and two ounces of butter rolled in flour. Stew gently for an hour and a half. Strain the gravy-. Put it, with the haro, back into the saucepan, add a glass of port or claret and a table- spoonful of mushroom ketchup, smoothly mixed with a dosRcrt-s]ioonful of ground rice; add a httle salt, if required: simmer a quarter of nn hour longer, and serve as hot as possible; fried forcemeat balls, may be placed round theHAB ( 307 ) HAR dish, or not. Probable cost, from Ss. 6d. to 68. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Hare, Trussing—Clean the vent, and rinse it well with lukewarm water. Wipe the inside, fill it with forcemeat, and sew it up securely. Cut oft" the fore-legs at the first jomt, and the sinews under the legs, and bring both the hind and fore-legs forward towards the head. Fasten them close to the body with a skewer run through them and the body as well. Keep the head back vnth a skewer put in the mouth through the head, and between the shoulders. Skin the ears, and leave them entire. Pass a string roimd the body, from skewer to skewer, find fasten it over the back. Hare, Wine Sauce for.—Take three table-spoonfuls of good unflavoured gravy. Mix ■with it thi-ee table-spoonfuls of claret, put it on the fire, and stir into it one table-spoonful of red currant jelly. When quite hot, serve as quickly as possible. The sauce will be much improved ii two cloves and a tiny piece of stick cinnamon are boiled in it for a few minutes before the gravy is added, then strained oflE. Haricot Beans.—This vegetable, which is cheap, nom-ishing, and easily cooked, is not nearly so well known as it deserves to be. It is commonly used, and largely cultivated on the Continent; elsewhere it is generally sold in a dried state. The only secret in connection with it, is to soak the beans in plenty of cold water for several hours before they are used, and then to put them into a saucepan, with cold water, to simmer gently untU tender. After soaking the beans will have become considerably larger. They can be bought at the com and flour shops, for 4d. and 6d. per quart, and if purchased in large quantities are generally sold cheaper. They should be stored in a dry place, but it is well not to keep them longer than twelve months, or there is a danger of their becoming musty. Haricot Beans {see also Beana, Haricot). Haricot Beans, To Boil.—Wash and pick the beans, and soak them in cold wateir over-night. Drain them, and put them into a saucepan with plenty of cold water, add a pinch of salt, and let them simmer gently until tender. Pour the water from them, let them stand by the fire, shaking them once or twice to assist their drying, then add a small piece of butter, and a little pepper and salt, and serve as hot as possible. Time, two hours to boil. Probable cost, 2d. or 3d. per pint. Suf- ciont, one pint for three or four persons. Haricot Beans, To Boil (k la Maitre' d'H6tel).—For the sake of variety haricot beans may, if liked, be cooked as follows:— Put two quarts of water into a stewpan, with half a tea-spoonful of salt. When boiling, throw into it one pint of freshly-shelled beans, and let them simmer gently until soft. Drain them, and put them into a saucepan with an ounce of fresh butter, a little pepper and salt, a dessert-spoonful of scalded and chopped parsley, and a table- spoonful of lemon-juice. Shake the saucepan over the fire till they are well mixed, and serve as hot as possible. Time, two hours or more to boil. Probable cost, uncertain. Sufficient for two or three persons. Haricot Beans, To Boil (another way). —Soak and boil a quart of the beans, as in the last recipe but one. Drain them, and keep them hot. Mix an ounce of flour very smoothly over the fire with two ounces of fresh butter, add a quarter of a pint of boiling stock or water, a little salt and pepper, and a table-spoonful of scalded and chopped parsley. Put in the beans, shake the saucepan over the fire till they are well mixed with the sauce, and serve as hot as possible. The flour and gravy may be omitted, and a little lemon-juice squeezed over the beans just before serving, as directed for Haricot Beans, a la Maitre d'Hotel. Time, two hours to boil the beans. Probable cost, 4d. per quart. Sufiicient, one quart for eight or ten persons. Haricot Beans, To Stew.—Soak and boil half a pint of beans in the usual way. Drain and dry them. Cut four ounces of bacon into- dice, pour some boiling water on it for a few- minutes, drain it. then put it into a stewpan. Shake the pan over the fire till the bacon is lightly browned, pour over it a quarter of a pint of brown gravy, thickened with flour, and a flnely-minced onion. Season with pepper and salt, and simmer for a quarter of an hour. Add the beans, let them stew a quarter of an hour longer, and serve. Time, two hours or more to boil the beans. Probable cost, 4d. per quart. Sufficient for four persons. Haricot Beans with Onions.—Wash & pint of beans in two or three waters, pick out any discoloured ones that there may be, and leave them to soak in plenty of cold water until the next day. Drain them, and boil them in. fresh water until they are tender, but unbroken. Drain them once more, and put them on a dish in the oven to keep warm. Take three ounces of onions, which have been three-parts boiled and chopped small, fry these in two ounces of butter, and, whilst frj'ing, mix with them the boiled beans. Stir them about with a fork, and moisten with a quarter of a pint of good brown gravy, rather highly seasoned. This is an excellent accompaniment to roast meat. Time, an hour and a half to boil the beans. Probable cost, 4d. per quart. Sufficient for four or flve persons. Haricot Beef, Australian {see Austra- lian Haricot Beef). Haricot Mutton (a good family dish).— Take thi-ee pounds of the neck of mutton, divide it into cutlets, trim them neatly, and fry them in a little dripping till nicely browned, and with them three carrots, two turnips, and an onion, all sliced. Drain them from the fat, and put them into a sauceptm. Pour over them a quart of water, which has been boiled in the pan in which the meat, &c., was fried, and tliicken with a table-spoonful of flour, mixed smoothly with a little cold water. Skim carefully, and season with salt and pepper according to taste, and a little ketchup. »Simmer for an hour. Serve ^vith the meat in the middle of the dish, the vegetables round it, and the gravy poured over aU. A few sippets of toasted bread mayHAB HAB ( 308 ) be placod iit tho Lottom of the dish, or served as u guniioli. A fow haricot boiina (see Haricot Beans, to Boil) aro a gruat improvoment. Pro- bable cost, 28. lOd. Sufficient for live or six persons. Haricot Mutton (ti la Bourgooiso).— Divide throo pounds of tho neck or bruast of mutton into neat cutlots, and fry them in a little dripping till they aro lightly browned. Pour over them a pint and a halt' of boiling stock, or, failing this, water, and add a large onion, stuck with three or four cloves, a bunch of parsley, and three or four peppercorns. Simmer gently for throe-quarters of an hour. Strain tlie gravy, put it back into tho saucepan, and with it a dozen turnips, cut into balls, and ah-eady stewed in a little gravy. Serve the turnips in the sanie dish with the mutton and the gravy. If preferred, potatoes may be sub- stituted for the turnips, as in Haricot, Nor- mandy, but they must be kept whole, or the appearance of the dish will be spoilt. Pro- bable cost, 28. lOd. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Haricot, Normandy.—Take two pounds of veal from the fillet, cut it into slices three- quarters of an inch in thickness, and divide these into neat pieces three inches long by t\to inches broad. Beat them flat with a cutlet bat, season them with pepper and salt, dip them in flour, and fry them to a light brown in a little butter, and with three or four slices of lean ham. Lift them into a saucepan, pour over them a pint of boiling gravy, and add a table-spoonful of scalded and chopped parsley. Let them simmer gently for three-quarters of an hour; di-aw the saucepan to the side, and put three pounds of new potatoes, or old ones cut in half, in the pan with them, and simmer again until the potatoes are sufficiently cooked. Serve as hot as possible, and send young green peas, French beans, or stewed carrots to table with them. Probable cost, 3s. Sufficient for three or four persons. Haricot of Boebuck—Take four pounds of the neck of a roebuck, divide it into cutlets about an inch in thickness, and fry these in hot dripping till brightly browned. Draw them from the fat, put them into a clean sauce- pan, and pour over them as much boiling stock or water as wUl cover the meat. Remove the scum carefully as it rises, and, when the gravy boilB, put with it two or three carrots, turnips, and onions, all cut into small pieces, and fried for three or four minutes in the fat which was used for the meat. Simmer gently for an hour. Season with pepper and salt, and thicken tho gravy with a little flour and butter. Just before serving, dissolve two table-spoonfuls of red currant jelly in the sauce, and add a quarter of a pint of port or claret. Time, two hours. Probable cost, Is. 4d. or Is. 6d. per pound. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Haricots, Green, To Preserve.—In order to preserve these vcgotabloa for winter use, gather them on a dry day, and put them at once into wide-mouthed bottles, cork se- curely, and put them into a saucepan of cold water. Let them remain in the water for an hour after it boils, tie a bladder over the corks, and keep tho bottles in a dry place. Probable cost, 2d. per pound. Harrogate Pudding (somothnes called Warwickshire Pudding).—Beat thnje ounces of fresh butter to a cream, work in with it three ounces of pounded and sifted sugar, three ounces of fine flour, lialf an ounce of candied lemon-peel, finely minced, and the grated rind of half a lemon. Stir these ingredients briskly together, and add a table-spoonful of thick cream, three eggs, well beaten, and a table- spoonful of brandy. Beat all togetlier for ten minutes, pour the mixture into well-buttered cups, and bake in a good oven. Soak the rind of a lemon in half a pint of water, with two table-spoonfuls of sugar, until the flavour is ex- tracted. Let the water boil, and, when cool, add a table-spoonful of brandy, the juice of the lemon, and a few drops of cochineal. Turn the pud- dings out, pour the sauce round them, sift a Little sugar over, and serve inunediately. Time, twenty minutes to bake. Sufficient for four persons. Probable cost, lOd., exclusive of the brandy. Harrogate Punch.—Pour two table- spoonfuls of strained lemon-juice over four table-spoonfuls of pounded and sifted loaf sugar, mix them well together with a wooden spoon, and add twelve wine-glassfuls of cold water. "WTien the sugar is thoroughly dissolved, add half a tumblerful of rum, and serve at once. Time, half an hour to prepare. Probable cost, 4d. exclusive of the nun. Sufficient for two or three persons. Harrogate Sauce (for Wild Fowl).— Mix a pinch of grated lemon-rind and a chopped shallot, and pour over them a table-spoonful of lemon-juice and a table-spoonful of mushroom or walnut ketchup, add haK a tea-spoonful of powdered mace and three grains of caj-enne, and let them infuse for half an hour. Mix a table- spoonful of boiling water with the gravj' which comes from the fowl, put it into a saucepan with the other ingredients, and simmer for ten minutes. Add a wine-glassful of claret, strain, and serve in a tureen. Probable cost, 3d., exclusive of the wine. Sufficient for three or four persons. Harslet, Pig's.—Wash the heart, lights, liver, and sweetbread in lukewarm water, and boil them gently for half an hour. Take them out, drain them, cut them into neat slices, season with a little pepper and salt, and dredge some flour over them. Fry them in a little hot dripping or lard, and with them half a poimd of streak}'- bacon, also sliced. Garnish with fried parsley. Mix a tea-spoonful of made mustard with half a tea-spoonful of salt and a quarter of a tea-spoonful of i^epper. Stir this into three table-spoonfuls of boiling gviivy, add three table-spoonfuls of claret, and serve the sauce in a tureen. If preferred, the harslet may be stewed with half a pint of gravy and a shced onion. Time, ten minutes to fry the meat. Probable cost, 8d. or 1 Od. Sufficient for three or four persons. Hartshorn Jelly.—Boil half a ])ound of hartshorn shavintrs in four pints of water forHAR { 305 ; HAS three hours. Strain through a jelly-bag and boil it again for half an hour with the thin rind of two lemons and one orange: ^V^len cool, add the juice, half a pound of sugar, a wine- glassful of brandy, and the beaten whites and crushed shells of six eggs. Boil the jelly again for a few minutes without stirring, and strain it until it is quite clear. Half an ounce of isin- glass may be dissolved in it if it does not seem likely to stiffen. The above quantities are sufficient for nearly three pints of jeUy. Harvey's, or Camp Vinegar.—JMince a clove of gaiiic very finely. Add six chopped ancho^des, a quarter of an ounce of cayenne, thi'ee table-spoonfuls of Indian soy, three of mushroom or walnut ketchup. Put these into a quart of the best vinegar, and let them soak for about a month, shaking them frequently. Strain through muslin, and bottle for use. The probable cost will be Is. per pint. One dessert- spoonful may be added to a pint of sauce or gravy. Hash., Beef {see Beef, Hash). Hash, Cold Beef or Mutton.—Cut one pound of cold meat into neat slices, free from skin and gristle. Put a large onion, finely minced, into a saucepan, and with it two ounces of butter and a table-spoonful of flour. Stir over the tire until the ingredients are smoothly mixed and brown, being careful that they do not bum. Add gradually half a pint of good stock or water, and the bones and trimmings, and simmer gently until the sauce is'as thick as cream. Strain it, put in the pieces of meat, and let them remain until they are quite hot, but the sauce must not boil after the meat is added, or it will be hard. A hash may be varied by the addition of finely-minced green pickles, a dozen stewed mushrooms, or hafi a dozen toma- toes, but these should be added to the sauce be- fore the meat is put in, so that there will be no necessity for its remaining in the gravy too long. Serve with toasted sippets round the dish. Time, about an hour. Probable cost, 6d., ex- clusive of the meat. Sufficient for two or three persons. Hash, Common.—Cut a pcund of mut- ton into thin slices. Season with salt and pepper, and dredge a little flour over them. Stew a finely-minced onion in half a pint of stock or water for thirty minutes. Flavour it with a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup. Put in the pieces of mutton, stew gently for two or three minutes, till the flour has thickened the sauce and lost its raw taste, serve on a hot dish, and garnish with toasted sippets. Probable cost, 2d., exclusive of the cold meat. Sufficient for three persons. Hash, Superior.—Peel two dozen button- onions, dredge them with flour, and fry them with two ounces of butter till they are brightly browned. Pour over them half a pint of good broth, add a little salt and pepper, and a table- spoonful of lemon-juice, and either a table-spoon- ful of mushroom ketchup or a few stewed mush- rooms, and simmer gently until the onions are quite tf>ndor. Pour the gravy over the slices of meat, and let them remain until roquirod. Put tho contor.tg of tbe di$h into u .saucepan, and let them get as hot, as possible without boiling. Serve immediately. A glass of claret or port is an improvement. Tinie, an hour. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of the cold meat Sufficient for three or four persons. Hashes, Gravy for (see Gravy for Hashes). Hashes, Sauce for.—The following store sauce will be found useful to improve the flavour of gravies for hashes and rechauffes. Put four chopped anchovies, an eighth of a pint of vinegar, two blades of mace, a bay-leaf, two pounded cloves, a minced onion, a dozen peppercorns, a bunch of savoury herbs, and a tea-spoonful of scraped horseradish, into a saucepan, and simmer gently until the anchovies are dissolved. Add half a pint of claret, simmer ten minutes longer, strain and bottle for use. Time, half an hour. Pro- bable cost, 4d., exclusive of the wine. Hasty Pudding.—Put a pint and a half of milk into a saucepan, add a pinch of salt, and, when the milk is just boiHng up, sprinkle some fine flour with the left hand, and beat well with a fork with the right, to keep the flour from get- ting in lumps. Continue until the pudding is like a stiff thick batter, which it will be when about half a pound of flour has been used. Let it boil five or six minutes longer, beating it all the time; then turn it into a dish with two or three ounces of fresh butter, and serve immediately. Unless the milk is quite boiling when the flour is first put in no amount of boiling afterwards wiU prevent the pudding tasting pasty. Treacle, sugar, thick cream, or jam may be eaten with this pudding. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Hasty Pudding (another way).—Begin as in the last recipe. When the flour has been well mixed with the milk, add four well- beaten eggs. Beat all over the fire five minutes longer, and serve as before. Time, a quarter of an hour after the milk boils. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for five or six persons. Hasty Pudding, Baked.—Mix two ounces of flour in a pint of boiling milk. Beat it over the fire till it is as stiff as batter, then pour it out, sweeten and flavour according to taste, and add an ounce of fresh butter. When cold, stir in three well-beaten eggs. Spread a little marmalade or jam at the bottom of a deep pie-dish. Pour in the mixture and bake in a good oven. Time, half an hour to bake. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for three persons. Hasty Pudding, Oatmeal {see Oat- meal Hasty Pudding). Hasty Pudding, or Farmer's Bice. —Mix a well-beaten egg with as much flour as it will moisten. Rub it between the hands until it is in small dry lumps, like bread-crumbs. Stir these into a quart of boiling mUk, and beat over the fire until the pudding is thick and smooth. Serve with treacle, butter, sugar, or cream. Time, twenty minutes. Probable cost, 5d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Hasty Puflfs.—Stir two ounces of flour quickly and smoctLly into half a pint of boilingHEA ( 310 ) HAT nulk which has been swoetonod and flavoured with lemon-rind or nutniog. Boil up, thc-n add two ouncoa of butter, and, when cool, two egi^H well beaten. Butter four Humll moulds. Pour a quarter of the mixture into each, and bake in £ good oven. Turn out before serving, and place a little jam on the top of eacli puif. Time, ten to fifteen minutes to bake. Probable cost, 6d. SuUiciout for four porsonB. ' Hattered Kit.— Pour a quart of new milk, boiling hot, upon two quarts of fresh buttermilk. Let it remain untouched until firm. Lift off the top, and drain the rest over a sieve._ If it is to be served at table, it should be put into a mould a little while before using. Send a little cream, sweetened and flavoured, to table with. it. No more of this dish should be made at once than is likely to be used, as it quickly spoils. Time, four or five hours. ' Pro- bable cost, 6d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Hawthorn Liquor (for seasoning pud- dings and sweet dishes).—Fill a wide-mouthed bottle with blossoms of the white hawthorn, which have been gathered on a dry day. Shake them together, but do not press them down. FiU the bottle with good brandy, let the haw- thorn infuse for three months, then strain off the liquor, pour it into small bottles, and cork securely. Half a tea-spoonful of hawthorn liquor -will flavour a pint of custard. Hazel-nut Cakes.—Mince two ounces of hazel-nuts and half an ounce of sweet almonds very finely. Add three ounces of povmded and sifted sugar, the white of an egg, beaten to a film froth, and as much flour as will bind them together. Eoll the paste out till it is a quarter of an inch thick, stamp it out in small round cakes, place these on well-buttered tins, and bake in a slow oven. Time, twenty minutes to bake. Probable cost, 4d. Sufficient for six or eight cakes. Heart, Bullock's.—Wash the heart in several waters, clean the blood carefully from the pipes, and put it to soak in vinegar and water for two hours or more. Drain it and fiU it either with hare forcemeat or sage-and-onion stuffing. Fasten it securely, tie it in a cloth, put it into a pan of boiling water, and let it simmer gently for two hours. Take off the cloth, and roast the heart while hot, basting it plenti- fully, with good dripping for two hours longer. Serve with good brown gravy and currant jelly, if veal forcemeat has been used, and apple jeUy if the heart has been stuffed with sago and onions. The stewing may be omitted, and the heart simply roasted for three or four hours, but the flesh will not then be so tender. Probable cost of heart, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Heart, Bullock's, Hashed. —Take the remains of a bullock's heart, and cut it into neat slices. Take also a cupful of gravy, that which was served with the heart will answer excellently; mix with it a (piarter of a pint of po-t, clarot, or ale, and thicken it with a little Hour, mixed smoothly in a small quantity of water. Let it boH "for a few minutes, then dissolve a table-spoonful of red currant jelly in it, ]jut in the slices of heart, and, when these are heated thi-ough, serve immediately, with toasted sijjpets to garnish the dish. The gravy must not boil after the slices of heart are added lime, half an lioui-. Probable cost, exclusive of the cold meat and wine, 3d. Sufficient for thi'eo or four persons. Heart, Bullock's^ Stewed.-Prepare a heart as in the lust l ecipe. Soak it in vinegar and water, fill it with hare forcemeat, and put it in a saucepan, the broad end uppennost, and with it a sliced turnip and carrot, an onion stuck with four cloves, half a tea-spoonful of bruised celery-seed, tied in muslin, two tea- spoonfuls of salt, one tea-spoonful of moist sugar, and a quarter of a tea-spoonful of cayenne. Pour over the heart a pint of good stock, or, fail- ing this, water, and half a pint of beer. Cover the pan closely, and when the Hquid has once boiled, draw it a httle to the side, and simmer gently for five hours. Send the gravy in which it was stewed to table with it. Pro- bable cost of heart, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Heart, Calf's.—Wash the heart very clean, soak it in vinegar and water, fill it with a forcemeat made of four ounces of crumb of bread, two ounces of butter, two table-spoon- fuls of chopped parsley, half a tea-spoonful of finely-minced lemon-rind, and a Httle salt and cayenne. Fasten the heart securely and roast before a clear fire for from an hour and a half to two hours. Serve it with good melted butter mixed with a table-spoonful of lemon-juice or vinegar. A calf's heart is improved by par- tially boiling it before it is roasted. It may be baked, if more convenient, in a good oven, but in either case should be liberally basted. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for four or five persons. Heart, Calf S (another way).—Wash and soak the heart, cut it into shces about a quarter of an inch thick, and fry these in a little hot dripping or butter. About five minutes before they are done put a slice of bacon into the pan for each sUce of heart, and when they are suffi- ciently cooked serve on a hot dish, and cover each piece of heart with a shce of bacon. Boil two or three table-spoonfuls of thin flour and water in the pan in which the meat was fried. Season it with pepper and salt, add one table-spoonful of red currant jelly, and serve as hot*as possible. Time, fifteen minutes to fry the slices of heart. Probable cost, 3s. Sufficient for five or six persons. Heart. Sheep's, Baked.—Wash two or three sheep's hearts in lukewarm water, fill them with veal forcemeat, and skewer them securely. Fasten a rasher of fat bacon round each, place them in a deep dish, and with them a little good stock, and an onion stuck with two cloves. Bake in a moderate oven for two hours. Draw off the gravy. Thicken with a little flour and butter, and flavour it with pepper and salt and a table-spoonful of mushroom or walnut ketchup. . Put the hearts on a hot dish, pour the gnivy over th(>m, and send red currant jeUy with them to table.HEA ( 311 ) HEB Probable cost, 8d. each. Sufficient, two for four persons. Hearts, Sheep's, with Batter Pud- (jijlg^ Prepare two hearts as m the last recipe.' Bake them for one hour; then drain them from the gi-avy, put them into a deep, woU-buttored pie-dish, and pom- round them a batter made thus:—Mix four heaped table- spoonfuls of fine flour smoothly with a quarter of a pint of milk and water. Add the beaten yolks of two eggs, a pinch of salt, and, when the flour is quite smooth and free from lumps, another quarter of a pint of milk. Let this be made, if possible, an hour before the batter is wanted. Just before putting it in the oven stir in the whites of the eggs well whisked. Bake imtil the pudding is done enough. Thicken and flavour the gravy in which the meat was stewed, and send it to table in a tureen. Time, two hours. Probable cost, about Is. lOd. It will be sufficient for four or five persons. Hebe's Cup [see Heidelburg Punch). Hedgehog, Apple (see Apple Hedgehog). Hedgehog Pudding—Shred half a pound of beef suet very finely. Mix with it a quarter of a pound of flour, a quarter of a pound of bread-crumbs, half a poimd of currants, half a pound of raisins, half a pound of sugar, one ounce each of candied lemon, orange, and citron, half a nutmeg gxated, a dessert-spoonful of lemon-juice, a small pinch of salt, three or four sweet almonds, blanched and sliced, fovir eggs, and as much ale as will make the pudding into a stiff paste. Mix the dry ingredients first; afterwards add the eggs and ale. Tie the pudding in a cloth, plunge it into boiling water, and keep it boiling for five hours. Have ready three ounces of blanched almonds. Stick them into the pudding before sending it to table, and serve with brandy sauce. Suffi- cient for six or eight persons. Probable cost. Is. lOd. Heidelberg Punch, or Hebe's Cup. —Take a fresh fi-ame-grown cucumber. Cut an inch and a half of it into thin slices, and put them into a punch-bowl with the thin rind of a sound lemon and three table-spoonfuls of pounded sugar. Work them well together for four or five minutes with the back of a wooden spoon; then pour over them three table-spoonfuls of brandy, six of sherry, a bottle of soda-water, and a bottle of claret. Mix these ingredients thoroughly, and let them remain for one hour. Just before serving add another bottle of soda- water. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of the spirits and wine. Sufficient for a three-pint bowl. Henriette Pudding, or Helena Pudding.— Pour three-quarters of a pint of boiling milk over two ounces of finely- grated bread-crumbs. Soak for half an hour, then beat with a fork, add one table-spoonful of sugar, a piece of butter the size of a large egg, two ounces of finely-chopped candied lemon, and the yolks of three well-beaten eggs. Spread a little rpricot or currant jam at the bottom of a piodish; ;it the last moment add the whites of two of the eggs well whisked, pour in the mixture, and bake in a gentle oven for half an hour. Sufficient for three or four persons. Probable cost, Is. Herb Klosse, or Forcemeat Balls.— Prepare the herbs as in the following recipe, using double the quantity of spinach to that of any other herb. Mince them finely. Soak two ounces of finely-grated bread-crumbs in a little milk. Squeeze it dry, and mix it wdth six ounces of grated potatoes which have been boiled some hours before. Add a table-spoonful of flour, three well-beaten eggs, the eighth of a nutmeg, grated, a little pepper and salt, and the minced herbs. Stir all well together with a fork. Handle the forcemeat as lightly as possible, and when shaping it dip the hands in cold water, and wet the spoon with which it is taken up. Form it into balls the size of a large walnut, drop them into boiling water, and let them boil ten minutes. Melt an ounce of butter in a stewpan, and stir a table-spoonful of finely-grated fried crumbs in it. Drain the klosse, sprinkle the bread-crumbs over them, and serve immediately. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for four or five persons. Herb Pudding or Pie. —Take two handfuls of parsley-leaves, one of spinach, one of mustard and cress, one of white beet-leaves, one of finely-sUced lettuce-hearts, three or four leaves of borage, and a dozen chives. Wash these herbs well, and boil them for three or four minutes. Drain the water from them, chop them small, season with salt and pepper, and spread them in a buttered dish. Make a batter with five table-spoonfuls of flour and a pinch of salt, mixed smoothly with two eggs and as much milk as will bring it to the consistence of thick cream. Pour this over the herbs, stir all well together, and bake in a moderate oven. If liked, the edges of the dish can be lined with good pastry. Sufficient for five or six persons. Probable cost, 8d. Herb Sauce.—Take two parts of parsley to one of chervil and chives, chop them finely, and pour over as much vinegar as will rather more than cover them. Let them infuse at least an hour, to draw out the flavour of the herbs. This is the usual accompaniment on the Continent to boiled calf's head. A small quantity of other herbs, such as thjnne, marjoram, basil, or sage, may be used, if the flavour is liked, but they are not generally in- cluded in herb sauce properly so called. Pro- bable cost, 6d. per half-pint. Sufficient for four or five persons. Herb Sauce (another way).—^Pick and wash the herbs. Take two bunches of parsley to one of fennel and one of mint, boil them for three or four minutes, drain and mince them finely, and stir them into half a pint of boiling melted butter. Let the sauce boil up, then pour it into a tureen, add a little salt, and a table- spoonful of lemon-juice, and serve immcdiatelj'. Probable cost, 4d. Sufficient for two or three persons. Herb Sauce (for flavouring). — Slice a stick uf horseradish very finely, and with it two shallots, and a clovo of i;arlic. Ptri)) Iho leaves from a sprig of thyme, basil, marjoram.(812) HER HEB, winter savoury, and parsley, and put all into a saucepan. Pour over tlioiu four table-spoonfuls of vinegar, the iiiice of a lomon, and a pint of cold water. Add a dozen peppercorns, a quarter of a salt-spoonful of cayenne, a di-aclun of bruised celery-seed, a leaf of tarragon, a des- sert-spoonful of salt. Bring the sauce to a boil, colour rather darkly with burnt sugar, and let it simmer gently for ten minutes, Strain through a jolly-bag, and, when cold, put it into bottles, and cork secunay until wanted for use. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for one pint and a quarter. Herb Soup.—Take a handful each of cher\nl, parsley, spinach, and sorrel, and half a dozen young cabbage lettuces. Wash, drain, iind shi-ed them finely, and put them into a ste\vpan, with four ounces of butter, two or three sliced carrots, and a little pepper and salt. Lot them steam for half an hour, shaking the pan occasionally to prevent burning. Pour in three quarts of clear soup, and simmer for twenty minutes. Add a little grated nutmeg. Strain the soup, beat the yollcs of three eggs with half a piat of milk, and stir it in gently just before serving. This soup may be varied by the addition of a quart of green peas, a cuciunber cut into slices and fried in butter, or a few onions. When peas are put in, however, the sorrel should be omitted. Probable cost. Is. 6d. per quart. Sufficient for seven or eight persons. Herbs and Spices, Aromatic Sea- soning of {see Aromatic Seasoning of Herbs and Spices). Herbs, Aromatic Powdered, for Seasoning.—Dry and pick away the stalks from three ounces of thyme, three oimces of marjoram, three ounces of basil, one ounce of bay-leaves, and two ounces of winter savoury; put them into a mortar, and with them two cloves of garlic finely minced, half an ounce of grated l^non-peel, half an ounce of cayenne pepper, one ounce of nutmeg, grated, one ounce of powdered mace, two ounces of peppercorns, and two ounces of cloves. Pound all thoroughly in- a mortar, pass the powder through a wire sieve, and put it into bottles, which must be securely corked untU wanted. Time, one hour to prepare. Probable cost, Is. 6d. for this quan- tity. Half a tea-spoonful is enough for one pint of sauce. Herbs, Bunch of Sweet.—A bimch of sweet herbs, which is often mentioned in recipes for soups, stews, &c., consists of two sprigs of parsley, one of orange or lemon thyme, and one bay-leaf, or two sprigs of parsley, one of sweet marjoram, one of winter savoury, and one of lemon-thyme. These herbs should be fastened securely together with thread; they can then be easily removed before the dish is served. Herbs, Chopping.—Pick off the leaves, wash and dry them in a Dutch oven as quickly as possible without burning them. Hold the leaves firmly in the left hand, and cut them through very finely with a sharp knife. Turn the long shredfl round, and cut them finely the other way; then finish by chopping with both hands with the knife. ^Herbs, Drying and Storing for Winter use.—(iather the horhs on a dry day. They are at their greatest perfection j ust l)etoro they begin to fiower. Cleanse them nnmodiately, cut ofl: the roots, divide them into small bunches, and diy them in a Dutch oven before the fire, or lay them on dishes in a moderate oven. If this is not convenient, they may l)o divided into bunches, and laid on sheets of paper in the sun, but the more quickly they are dried the better will be their flavour. Care must be taken that they do not bum. WTien dry, it is usual to tic the herbs in paper bags, and keep them hanging in a dry place until wanted, but it is much the better plan to pick off the leaves, pound them in a mortar, pass them through a sieve, and the powder into bottles, which must be kept closely corked. The different herbs should be gathered and dried in the following months:— Basil. The middle of August. Burnet. June, July, and August. Chervil. May, June, and July. Elder Flower. May, June, and July. Fennel. May, June, and July. Knotted Marjoram. July. Mint. The latter end of June and July. Parsley. May, June, and July. Sage. August, and September. Savoury, Summer. The latter end of July and August. Savoury, Winter. End of July and August. Tarragon. Jiine, July, and August. Thyme. End of July and August. Thyme, Lemon. End of July and August. Thyme, Orange. Jxme and July. Herbs, Essence of, for Seasoning.— Squeeze the juice from four fresh lemons, strain it, and put it into an earthenware jar, and with it a bottle of white wine, and half a pint of vinegar. Add a drachm each of powdered cloves, mace, basil, thyme, and nutmeg, also an oimce of dried parsley, half a poimd of salt, and two ounces of pepper. Put the pan in the oven, and bring the'contents to the point of boUing, then put on the cover, and keep them simmering gently for four hours. Strain the liquid, filter it through blotting-paper, and keep it in closely stoppered bottles tiU wanted for use. Probable cost, Is., exclusive of the ^vine. Three drops of the essence are about enough for a pint. Taste, and add more if required- Herbs, Fried.—Pick, wash, drain, and finely mince two handfuls of spinach, one of parsley, and four or five yoimg onions. Put them into a stewpan, with a pinch of salt, one ounce of butter, and one table-spoonful of broth. Put on the lid and stew them gently, shaking the pan frequently, and be careful they do not bum. Fried herbs are often served as an ac- companiment to calf's liver. Time, ten or fifteen minutes. Probable cost, 2d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Herbs, Lamb Chops with {see Lamb Chops with Herbs). Herbs, Powder of—Weigh the leaves of the driea herbs {sre Herbs, Drying and Storing for AVintor use), after they arc soparatci] from the stalks. Take two ounces of lemon-thjnne,( 313 ) HEB HEB two of sweet marjoram, two of winter savoury, two of basil, four of dried parsley, and one oxmce of finoly-minced lemon-rind. Pound these thoroughly in a mortar, sift the powder through a wire sieve, and keep it in bottles closely stoppered for use. Herbs, Vinegar of.—The flavour of herbs may be extracted by being soaked in ■vinegar, and in this form may be used for soups and sauces, when fi-esh herbs cannot be obtained. Gather the herbs on a dry day, and at the proper season. Pick the leaves from the stalks, and fill a wide-mouthed bottle with. them. The leaves may be shaken together, but must not be pressed down. Pour the best pickling \anegar over them, let them infuse for a month, then strain and bottle for use. Probable cost, lOd. per pint. Herbs, Wines of.—Herbs may be infused in wine instead of vinegar, and when this is done, the essence wUl be found useful for those dishes in which the acidity imparted by vinegar is not required. Proceed as with vinegar {see the preceding recipe), using sherry, claret, or any light wine to fill the bottle. As wine is stronger than vinegar, a fortnight will be foiond sufficient to extract the flavour. Time, about two weeks to infuse. Her Majesty's Pudding. — Flavour half a pint of cream or new milk with half an ounce of povmded almonds, or if preferred, a little lemon or ratafia flavouring. Simmer gently, and when lukewarm, pour the milk gradually over two well-beaten eggs. Stir it over the fire for a minute or two, until it begins to thicken, then take it off and sweeten it, and when quite cool pour it into a buttered mould which has been lined with a smaU. spongecake, previously sliced and soaked in sherry. Place a cover on the mould and steam the pudding. When done enough, let it stand a minute or two before turning it out, and ornament with crystallised fruit of different colours. Time, three-quai-ters of an hour to steam. Probable cost, 8d.,if made with milk. Sufficient for two persons. Herodotus Pudding, or Hilton Pudding.—Shred a quarter of a pound of suet very finely, mix with it five ounces of finely-grated bread-crumbs, and five ounces of good figs minced as small as possible. Add a pinch of salt, three table-spoonfuls of sugar, and two eggs well beaten. Beat the mix- ture with a fork, pour it into a buttered mould, tie it in a cloth, and boU it for three hours. Send brandied sauce to table in a tureen. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for four or five persons. Herrings.—This delicate and delicious fish, which visits the British Islands in shoals, are at their best in July and August. They may be cooked in many ways, for all of which recipes will be given. There is a difference of opinion as to the time when the herring is in season. The fact is there are varieties of this fish, and one kind or another is to be had at any time excepting the early spring. Herrings, Dutch, Fried.—Wash the herrings, and sos^k them in milk for a couple of hours. Drain and dry them ; cut off the fins, dip them in floxir, egg and bread-crumb them, iind fx-y them in hot fat. Send potatoes in any form to table with them. Time, seven or eight minutes to fry. Probable cost, Id. or l^d. eacU. Sufiicient, half a dozen for three persons. Herrings, Fresh, Baked.—Scale and clean the hen-ings carefully, without washing them. Cut ofl: the heads, and take out tho backbone. Sprinkle a little salt, pejjper, and pounded mace over them, both inside and out, lay them in a deep baking-dish, and arrange the roes at the top. Cover them with vinegar and water in equal proportions, and put three or four bay-leaves or cloves into the liquid. Bake for an hour. They are much better eaten cold than hot. When the backbone is removed they may be neatly rolled before baking. Pro- bable cost, Id. or l|d. each. Sufficient, half a dozen for three persons. Herrings, Fresh, Boiled.—Few fish are more delicious than fresh herrings boiled. Wash, scale, and gut them, sprinkle a little salt over them, and dip them once quickly in vinegar; skewer them securely vnth. their tails in their mouths, put them into boiling water, and simmer very gently until done enough, when they must be taken out immediately. Drain the water from them, and arrange them neatly on a dish", garaish with parsley or scraped horseradish, and send shrimp, anchovy, or parsley sauce to table in a tureen. Time, alaout twelve minutes to simmer. Probable cost, Id. or l^d. each. Sufficient, half a dozen for three persons. Herrings, Fresh, Broiled. — Fresh herrings are better for broiling when they have been salted for a night, as this both renders them firmer and improves their flavour. Scale and gut the fish without opening them, score them to the bone in two or three places, draw them through oU on a dish, and broil them over a clear fire. Lift them gejitly now and then, to prevent their sticking to the bars, and when one side is done enough, turn the fish gently to the other. Serve imme- diately. Squeeze the juice of a lemon over the herrings before sending them to table. The roes must be fried and served with them. Time, about fifteen minutes. Probable cost, Id. or IJd. each. Sufficient, half a dozen for three persons. Herrings, Fresh, Broiled (in the Scotch style).—Scale, gut, and wash the herrings, cut ofl: the heads, tails, and fins, flatten them with great care, remove the backljone, and any little bones that can be taken out with it. Sprinkle the inside of each fish with a little pepper and salt; then place them together in pairs, and press the two inner surfaces as close as possible. Dip them in oatmeal, lay them on the gridiron over a clear fire, and when the undermost fish is broiled, turn them quickly and carefully, without separating them. Serve as hot as possible. A bloater and a fresh herring may be broiled together in this way, but when this is done, tho bloater should be well rubbed inside with butter before being laid on the fresh fish, and the oatmeal omitted for it. Time, about fifteen minutes to broil,HEB ( ) HEE Sufficient for one person. Probable cost, Id. or 1^(1. each. Herrings, Fresh, Choosing.—Choose fresh herrings which lu-o plump in shape, bright and silvery in look, and with thoir scales un- injured. When they are bloodshot about the eyes, they have been dead some time. When many of the scales have come oil", they have been crushed together in Lirgo heaps, oithor in the fishing-boats or in baskets. A herring dies almost instantly it is taken out of the water. Comparatively few people have seen a live herring. Herrings, Fresh, Fried.—Clean and scale four fi-esh herrings. Cut off the fins, and either score them lightly in three or four places, or open them along the under side, and take out the bone. Season them with a little salt and pepper; flour, and afterwards brush them over -with, beaten egg, and sprinkle bread-crumbs over them. Fry them in a very little hot fat, and drain them well before serving. The roes should be taken out, egged and crumbed sepa- rately, fried, and sent to table with the fish. Stir a tea-spoonful of mixed mustard, and half a tea-spoonful of vinegar into half a pint of melted butter, and send this sauce to table with the herrings in a tureen. Time, three minutes each side. Probable cost of herrings, 4d. Sufficient for two persons. Herrings, Fresh, Fried (another way). —Take half a dozen herrings, scrape off i the scales, cut off the heads and fins, cut them open down the back, and wipe the fish with a soft cloth, but do not wash them. SHce two or three onions, and fry them for two or three minutes in hot fat. Dip the herrings in butter, and fry them with the onions, mitH done enough. Send to table with the onions in the dish with them, and parsley and butter in a tureen. Time, six or seven minutes. Probable cost. Id. or l^d. each. Sufficient, half a dozen for three persons. Herrings, Marinaded (a German re- cipe).—Put some white salted herrings into cold milk, to soak for a couple of hours. Split them open, take out the bones, cut each half- herring into three pieces, and divide the roes lengthwise. Put all in layers into a deep jar, and between each layer place a sprinkling of finely-minced shallot, pounded cloves, and white pepper, with here and there a piece of bay-leaf and a slice of fresh lemon with half the rind taken off. Place the roe with the herring, and the seasoning over the top layer, and caver the whole well with vinegar. Pour three or four table-spoonfuls of salad-oil over the vinegar, and leave it until required. The pieces of herring should be drained when wanted, and served either with cheese or as a relish for salads, breakfast, luncheon, &c. They may be used in a couple of days, but will keep good for some time. Probable cost, about Is. per dozen. Herrings, Mock Anchovy Sand- wiches of {see Herrings, lied, Mock Anchovy Toast of). Herrings, Pickled.—Take half a pound of salt, half a pound of bay salt, an ounce of sugar, and an ounce of saltpetre. Pound all well together until reduced to a fine jjowder. Pro(!uro the herrings as fresh as possible, cut off tlio heads and taibj, open them, and lay them for one hour in brine strong enough to float an egg. Drain, dry the fish with a soft cloth, and put them in layers into a deep jar, with a little of the powder lietween each layer, and a little both at the top and Ijottom of the jar. When the jar is full, press it down and cover it closely. The fish will bo ready in three months. Probable cost, Is. per doz(;n. The above quantity of salt is enough for two dozen herrings. Herrings, Pickled (in the French style). —Scale and clean a dozen perfectly fresh her- rings, without washing them. Cut off their heads, and remove the entrails, leaving the milts and roes in their place. Put the fish into an earthen jar, strew salt over them, and let them lie for twenty-four hours, turning them over at the end of twelve hours. Drain them, and place them in an enamelled saucepan, with a dozen peppercorns, a bay-leaf, six cloves, and a large sUced onion. Pour over them as much cold vinegar and water as wiU cover them. Place them on a brisk fire, bring them quickly to a boil, and let them boil just two minutes. Take them from the fire, and let them get nearly cold in the saucepan before removing them to the jar in which they are to be kept. Lift them out carefully, pour the Kquid over them, and keep in a cool place. They will remain good for some time. Probable cost, is, per dozen. Herrings. Pickled, To Dress.—Cut the heads and tails from a couple of pickled herrings. Soak them in lukewarm water for three or four hours, then drj'^, and broil them over a clear fire. Brush a little salad-oil over them just before serving, and serve with sliced onion or chopped parsley and capers. Time, five minutes to broil. Probable cost, IJd. each. Herrings, Pie of.—Choose some herrings with soft roes; scale and clean them weU, cut off their heads, fins, and tails, split them open, take out the bones, and season the inner surface of the fish with a little salt and pepper. Line the edge of a buttered pie-dish with a good crust. Spread over the bottom of the dish a layer half an inch thick of equal parts of apples and onions, finely minced. Place the herrings on this, and cover them with another layer. Sprinkle the surface with grated nutmeg and finely-shred lemon- rind. Place two or three small pieces of butter here and there on the top, pour a little water in, cover the pie with a crust, and bake in a good oven. Herrings, Potted. — Empty the fish, clean without washing them, cut off the heads and tails, remove the backbone, and strew over them a little salt and powdered mace. Let them remain three or four hours, then wipe off the seasoning and put the fish into a well-buttered pan; strew pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg over them, place small lumps of butter here and there upon them, and bake m a moderate oven. When they arc cooki<d enough, drain the liquid from them, pourHEB, HEB (316) sufficient clai-ified butter over them to cover them completely, and keep in a cool place. Time, two houi-s to bake. Probable cost of herrings, 9d. per doaon. Sufficient, half a dozen for three peraons. Herrings, Bed, Broiled. — Soak a couple of red herrings in a little warm water. This is \mnecessary for fresh Yarmouth Bloaters. Dry them well with a cloth, make four or five incisions crosswise on the back, dredge a little flour over them, and put them on a gridu-on about six inches above a clear tire, or toast them before the fire. This fish may be opened at the back aad rubbed inside with a little cold butter, if this is liked. Time, five minutes. Probable cost, 3d. Sufficient for two persons. Herrings, Bed, Broiled (another way). •—Cut off the heads and tails; open the fish, and poui- over them a little hot beer. When it is cold, wipe them dry with a soft cloth, and toast them before the fire imtil they are hot through. Time, half an hour to soak. Pro- bable cost, l^d. each. Sufficient, one for each person. Herrings, Bed, Broiled (another way).—Take off the heads and tails, split the herrings open, and take out the backbones. Beat an egg, stir into it a tea-spoonful of clari- fied butter. Dip the fish into this, and sprinkle over them, rather thickly, finely-grated bread- crumbs, seasoned with a little pepper and pow- dered herbs. Broil them on a gridiron about six inches above a clear fire, and serve them on hot toast. Time, five minutes to broil. Probable cost, Id. each. Sufficient, one for each person. Herrings, Bed, Buffed (a Scotch dish). —Soak pickled herrings in water until the salt is almost extracted. Push a stick through the eyes, and hang the fish in the sun or wind to dry. When wanted for use, broil or boil them like fresh herrings. Time, two days to soak. Probable cost, Id. or l^d. each. Sufficient, half a dozen for two or three persons. Herrings, Bed, Choosing.—Choose a fish which is plump, but not too full of roe. Large-roed fish are sure to be oily, and in all probabihty are not satisfactorily salted. The body should be firm, the flesh red, the roe well set, and the smell sweet. If too salt, the fish should be soaked in warm water a few hours before being cooked. It is well, however, to pull a few of the fins out of the back, and taste them, in order to ascertain whether it is too highly salted or not. Herrings, Bed, Mock Anchovy Toast of.—Cut the head and tail from a red herring, and let it soak in boiling water for five or ten minutes. Drain it, peel off the skin, open it, and take out as many of the bones as possible. Cut one half into slices about a quarter of an inch in thickness, and the other half into small squares. Divide a round of hot buttered toast into quarters, and place a square of herring- flesh on each quarter, and round it one of the nsirrow slices. This will give mock anchovy toast. Place the pieces of herring between bread and butter, instead of upon toast, and you will have mock anchovy sandwiches. It will take about ten minutes to soak the herring. Probable cost, 14d. each. Sufficient for one person. Herrings, Salted at Home.—Procure the herrings as fresh as possible. Scale, gut, and clean, but do not wash them. Leave the roes in the fish. Make a brine strong enough to float an egg. Put the herrings in this, and let them lie fourteen or sixteen hours. Drain them well, and put them into jars, with a thick layer of salt under them, and salt between each row of herrings. Cover tightly, to keep them free from air. When wanted for use, soak the fish in a little milk, and boil or broil them in the usual way. Herrings, Salted, with Potatoes.— Take two or thi-ee salted herrings, which have been washed and dried, and put them into a quart stone jar, nearly filled with sliced raw potatoes. Pour a little water over, and bake in a moderate oven until the potatoes are done. Time, about half an hour. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Herrings, Sauce for.—Herrings are generally served without sauce. When fresh ones are cooked a little may be required, and then either parsley and butter, anchovy, or caper sauce may be sent to table with the fish ; or the following sauce:—Stir a table-sj)Oonful of mixed mustard into a pint of melted butter. A table-spoonful of finely-chopped mixed pickles may be substituted for the mustard. Boil for five minutes, add a tea-spoonful of vinegar, and serve. Probable cost, Sd. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Herrings, Sauce of, for Fish (a German recipe).—Put an ounce of butter into a stew- pan with two finely-minced shallots. Let them remain over a gentle fire until tender, then thicken with a table-spoonful of flour, and, when smooth, add half a pint of fish stoclr or water, a tea-spoonful of vinegar, half a salt-spoonful of pepper, and two bay-leaves. Simmer gently for ten minutes. Strain the sauce, and mix with it the flesh of a salted and soaked herring, finely miuced, and an ounce of butter. Boil once more. Just before serving, and when the sauce is slightly cooled, mix in the well-beaten yolks of two eggs. Time, half an hour. Pro- bable cost, 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Herrings, Smoked.—Clean and open the herrings, and lay them in salt and saltpetre for twenty-four hours. Drain and wipe them 6ry, and hang them in a row by means of a stick pushed thi-ough their eyes. Fill an old cask, open at both ends, with sawdust, put a red-hot iron in the middle of it, and place the herrings over the cask, which must be covered to keep in the smoke. Keep the heat as equal as possible. In about twenty-four hours the herrings will be ready. Probable cost of herrings, Is. per dozen. n ■^^I^i^^^ Smoked, To Prepare.- Cut off the head and tad from a smoked heri-ing and remove the bones. Cut the fish into slices about half aa inch in, thickness, and let themHoa HEB ( 816 ) soak in salad-oil for fivo or six hours. Drain thcni, put thoiu into a dish, poiu- fresh oil ovor thuui, and sorvo. Probablo cost, IJd. oach. Sufficient, one or two for each poraon. Herrings, Soft Koes of, Baked — Takt! tho soft roos out of six or eight mswly- boilod fresh herrings, sprinkle them over with a little pepper and salt, grated bread-crumbs, and finely-minced parsley. Put them into a dish, place little lumps of butter hero and there ovor them, and bake in a hot oven. Squeeze tho juice of a lemon over them before serving, and send to table as hot as possible. A little parsley and butter may be sent to table with them. Time, a quarter of an hour to bake. Probablo cost, 4d. Sufficient for two or three persons. Hessian Soup.—Take half an ox's head, clean and rub it well with salt, and let it soak in lukewarm water for four or five hours. Put it into a large stewpan with six quarts of water, and let it simmer until tender, then take it out; when the broth is cool, remove tho fat, return the broth to the saucepan, and put with it a pint of soaked split peas, six carrots, six onions, three turnips, a tea-spoonful of bruised celery-seed, tied in muslin, a bunch of savoury herbs, and a blade of mace. Simmer again without the ox's head until the vegetables are tender. Press them through a colander and afterwards through a sieve. Put the pulp into the soup, add salt and Jamaica pepper to taste, and a lump of sugar. Let it boil up once more and serve. It should be as thick as ordinary pea-soup. Time, fonr hours. Probable cost, lOd. per quart. Sufficient for twelve or fourteen persons. Hessian Soup and Ragoiit.—Prepare the soup as in the last recipe. Cut the nicest parts of the ox head into small neat pieces, and put them into a stewpan with a pint of the soup. Add three dessert-spoonfuls of ketchup, a mus- tard-spoonful of mixed mustard, and a glass of port or claret. Let all boU together for three or four minutes, and serve as hot as possible, with toasted sippets round the dish. Time, half an hour, exclusive of the time required for making the soup. Sufficient for five or six persons. Hessian Stew.—Take the root of an ox- tongue, cleanse it thoroughly, rub it well with salt, and pour over it as much boiling water as will cover it. When cool, drain and cut it into thick slices. Dredge a little flour over these, and fry them, until lightly browned, m a . little hot fat, and fry with them four sliced onions. Pour half a pint of beer over the meat, and, when it boils, put all into a stewpan. Add three quarts of water, six carrots, three turnips, three onions, and a tea-spoonful of bruised celery-seed, tied in muslin. Simmer gently for four hours. Strain the soup, the greater part of which should be served in the tureen with the vegetables, pulped and boiled up once more, and the addition of pepper, salt, and seasoning. Tho meat should be warmed in a pint of the gravy, according to the directions given for Hessian Ragout {see Hessian Soup and Ilfigout). Probablo, coat, 38. Sufficient for aix or eight persons, Hide-and-seek Pudding (to be eaten cold). - Make a rich ictttor with two table- Hpoonfula of ci-oam, mixed with throe well- beaten eggs, and a table-apoonful of sugar. Melt a little butt(;r in a small oinolet-pan, pour in the mixtuio, and fry it like an ordinary pan- cake, but it must be foui- times the thicknesB. Turn it on a dish, and, when cold, cover it with rich jam, and garnish with (andied fruit cut into slices, and a few dark green hiaves. Time, a few minutes to fry the omelet. Sufficient for one person. Probal)le cost, 7d. Hillsboro' Pudding.—Shred six ounces of suet very finely. Mix with it three ounces of flour, three ounces of finel)-- grated bread-crumbs, a pinch of salt, the rind of a fresh lemon cut into long narrow strips, and one ounce of candied lemon, also sliced. Melt six ounces of good treacle until it will run. Stir this into the pudding, and add the juice of the lemon, three well-beaten eggs, and a quarter of a pint of new nulk. Fill a buttered basin with the mixture, tie the mould in a floured cloth, and plunge it into a saucepan of boiling water. Let it boil con- tinuously for four hours. Turn it out of the mould before serving, and send brandied sauce to table with it. Probable cost, lOd. Suffi- cient for six or eight persons. Hilton Pudding [sec Herodotus Pudding). Hip Sauce, for Puddings, &c. (a German recipe).—Take the seeds from half a . pint of ripe hips. Boil them in a little water, untn they are sufficiently tender to press through a coarse sieve. Mix a wine-glassful of light wine and a table-spoonful of moist sugar with the pulp, boil up once more, and serve. Time, half an hour. Probable cost, uncertain, for hips are seldom to be bought. Sufficient for three or foui- persons. Hog's Cheeks, To Cure.—Take out the snout, split open the head, and remove the brains. Cleanse and trim the head, and strew salt over it. Let it lie for two days, then put it into a brine made by boiling one pint of bay salt and one quart of common salt, half an ounce of saltpetre, and half a pound of sugar, in three quarts of water until dissolved. Cover the cheeks with the brine, and let them lie in the pickle for a fortnight, turning them every other day. Drain, and let them hang in smoke for a week. Sufficient for one head. Probable cost, 3s. Hog's Ears, Hot.—Parboil two pairs of pigs' ears. Eaise the skin of the upper side, and fill them with a forcemeat made by mincing and mixing thoroughly a quarter of a pound of suet, six ounces of bread-crumbs, a pounded an- c)iovy, two tea-spoonfuls of chopped parsley, one table-spoonful of sage, and a little pepper and sjilt. Bind these ingredients together with the yolka of two eggs. When stuffed, skewer the ears to prevent the forcemeat escaping, and fry them in a Uttle hot butter until brightly browmed, then drain them and put them into a stewjian. with half a pint of good gravy, one table-spoonful of mixed mustard, one oimce of butter rolled in flour, one onion, and a little pepper and salt. Cover tho stewpan closely, and simmer gentlyHOG (817) HON for half an houi-, shaJdng the pan fi-equently, to keep the contents from sticking. A few minutes before the meat is done enough, add a glass of shony. Put the ears in a hot dish, strain the gravy over them, and serve very hot. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for four persons. Hog's Lard, To Make.—Strip the skin from the Hear, leaf, or inner fat of the pig, cut it into small pieces, put it into an earthen jar, which must be covered and placed in a saucepan of boiling water, and let it remain imtU melted. Pour it off, and keep it either in small jars, closely covered, or small bladders— the smaller the better, unless it is intended to use the lard quickly. After it is exposed to the air it is liable to spoil. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Hog, or Black Puddings.—Throw a little salt into the blood as soon as it is drawn, stir it well, and, when cold, strain. Mix with it a third of its measirre in milk, or good stock, and stir into it two-thirds of finely-shred beef suet to one-third of dried oatmeal, until it is a stiff batter. Add pepper, salt, and finely-chopped onions, and, if liked, a little parsley, marjoram, or winter savoury. Cleanse the skins thoroughly. Cut them into equal lengths, and fill them with the mixture. Sew them securely. Put them into boiling water, and boil them gently, prick- ing them as they swell with a large darning- needle, to let out the air. Hang them in a dry place until wanted. Time, one hour .to boil. Holly-leaves, To Frost, for Gar- nishing.—Take some holly-loaves, cleanse them thoroughly, lay them on a large dish some little distance from the fire, and let them remain there until perfectly dry. Dip them into butter, melted until it will run, strew white powdered sugar over them, and dry them before the fire. Keep in a dry place imtil wanted for use. Time ten minutes to dry. Holmby Cup.—Dissolve two ounces of pounded loaf sugar in a pint of claret. Add a wine-glassful of brandy, a bottle of soda-water, and two table-spoonfuls of crushed ice. Holstein Cream.—Take the thin rind of a lemon, and let it soak by the side of the fire in a pint of cream for half an hour, and after- wards bring it slowly to a boil. Mix a tea- spoonful of ground rice very smoothly with the strained juice of the lemon and a little cold milk. Stir it into the boiling liquid, add two table-spoonfuls of sugar, and boil five minutes longer, stirring aU the time. Slice a smaU spongecake, and lay it in a glass dish, pour the cream over, and garnish according to taste. If milk be used instead of cream, double the above quantity of ground rice will be required. Probable cost, 6d., if made with milk. Sufficient for three or four persons. Holstein Sauce, for Pish.—Mix a quarter of a pint of the water in which the fish was boiled with an equal quantity of light wine. Thicken the liquid with a table-spoonful of flour, mixed smoothly with two ounces of butter, and stir it over the fire until it boils. Add a salt-spoonful of sJilt, a little pepper, and the eighth of a nutmeg, grated. Beat the yolk of an egg in a basin, and mix with it the juice of a lemon. Draw the sauce back from the fire for a minute, then stir into it the egg and half an oimce of butter, and serve. Time, a quarter of an hour to prepare. Probable cost, 3d., exclu- sive of the wine. Sufficient for four or five persons. Honey, Butter Preserved with {see Butter Preserved with Honey). Honey Cake.—Stir half a pint of sour cream into a piat of flour. Add about half a tea-spoonful of ground ginger, a quarter of a tea-spoonful of powdered cinnamon, two table- spoonfuls of sugar and honey, according to taste. Mix thoroughly, and when the cake is ready for the oven, add half a tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda, dissolved in a small quantity of hot water. Beat again for a few minutes, pour the mixture into a buttered mould, and bake in a good oven. This cake may be eaten either warm or cold. Time, three-quarters of an hour to bake. Probable cost. Is. Sufficient for four persons. Honey Cakes (a German recipe).—Put two ounces of butter into a saucepan, and when melted, stir in half a pound of honey. Let it boil, stirring briskly all the time. Take it fi'om the fire, and, when slightly cool, mix with it the finely-minced rind of half a lemon, two ounces of sweet almonds, blanched and coarsely pounded, the eighth of a nutmeg, grated, and half a pound of flour, and, last of all, half an ounce of car- bonate of soda dissolved in a small quantity of warm water. Leave the mixture in a cool place twelve or fourteen hours. Roll it out half an inch thick, cut it into small square cakes, put a thin slice of candied peel in the middle of each cake, and a slice of blanched almond in the four comers. Bake in a moderate oven for twenty-five minutes. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for a dozen cakes. Honeycomb Cream.—Strainandsweeten liberally the juice of two large lemons and a Seville orange. Put it into a glass dish. Boil a pint and a half of thick cream. Pour it into a heated teapot. Put the glass dish con- taining the juice on the groiind, and pour the cream on it very slowly, and from a good height, so as to froth it well. Let it stand until cold. It should be well stirred at table before serving. This is the old-fashioned way of preparing honeycomb cream, but a better plan is to whisk the white of an egg and a little sugar with the cream, then, as the froth rises, to take it off and lay it upon the lemon- juice until all the cream is used. Honeycomb cream should be made the day before it is wanted, and put at once into the dish in which it is to remain. Time, an hour or more to pre- pare. Probable cost, 3s. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Honeycomb Gingerbread {see Gin- gerbread, Honeycomb). Honeycomb, Lemon {see Lemon Honey- comb). Honeycomb, To Keep.—Put the honey- comb as whole as possible into a large jar. Set I it aslant, so that the thin part may drop off.HOE Cover it closoly, to oxdudo tho air, and Htoro it in a fOol, iliy placo. It nuiy thus bu ktjpt good for somo mouths. Honey Noyau, for Flavouring.— BlaiU'h and puuiul an ounco of swcot ahiujiids and two oimcos of bitter ahnonds; mix with them a pound of sifted sugar, and pour over them two pints of gin mixed with half a pint of milk, which has been boiled with a largo taljle- spoonful of honey, and allowed to cool. Add tho t hin rind and strained juice of a largo lemon, and pour all into a good-sized bottle. Shako tho mixture frequently. In twelve days it will be ready for use. Filter through blotting-jmper, and keep in bottles securely corked. Probable cost, Is., exclusive of tho gin. Sufficient for a little more than three pints of flavouring. Honey, Orange Marmalade with {see Orange Marmalade with Honey). Honey, "Vinegar made from. — A strong and excellent vinegar may be made from honey. Dissolve two pounds of pure honey in haK a gallon of water. Put it into a small cask and leave the hole uncorked, merely cover- ing it with a piece of muslin to preserve the liquid from dust, &c. Expose it to the heat of tho sun—the hotter the better—and in about six weeks it will be ready for use. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for nearly three quirts of vinegar. Hop Salad (a German recipe).—Take some young hops before they are leafy. Boil them in a little salt and water, and when they are partially cooked, but not quite tender, drain and dry them thoroughly, and pour over them a salad-dressing made with lemon-juice instead of \dnegar. Hop Tea.—Put the hops into a covered jug with boiling water, in the proportion of an ounce of hops to a pint of water. When cold, pour off the liquid and bottle for use. A quarter of a pint taken fasting is often found beneficial in attacks of indigestion. If double the quantity of hops is used, it wiU be an ex- cellent tonic. Sufficient for a pint of the tea. Hops and Sherry Cordial.—FiU a wide-mouthed bottle with hops. They may be shaken together, but must not be pressed do^vn. Cover them with sherry, and let them infuse for a month. Strain the liquid, and mix with it a syrup made by boiling half a pint of water with six ounces of sugar. Strain, and keep the cordial in closely-corked bottles for use. A wine-glassful taken in half a tumblerful of water will be found both agreeable and strengthening. Sufficient for a little more than a pint of the cordial. Horseradish for Garnish.—Wash and scrub the horseradish thoroughly. Let it lie ^or an hour in cold water ; then scrape it very finely with a sharp knife. Arrange it in little bunches round the dish, or, if there is gravy with the meat, put it in a small glass dish near the carver. Probable cost, 2d. per root. Horseradish, Pickling.—Scrape the outer skin off tho horseradish, and cut it into inch lengths. Put these into earthen jars, cover with cold vinegar, and cork sooirely. Wax tho corks, and keep the pickle in a cool dry place. Time, a few minutes to prepare. I'roljablo cost of horseradiuh, 2d. per root. Horseradish Powder.—Slice some hoiHuradisli. JJry it in a iJutch oven very gradually, or the flavour will bo lost. When thoroughly di-y, pound it to powder, and keep it in bottles securely corked. The Ijost time for preparing tho powder is in November and December. Horseradish Sauce, Brown (forlwiled meat or flsh).—Grate two table-spoonfuls of horseradish, put it into a stewpan with half a pint of good brown gravy, and let it stand by the side of the fire until quite hot. Add a tea-spoonful of mixed mustard, a clove of garlic pounded with a little butter, and a dessert- spoonful of vinegar. If it is wished to have the sauce very mild, use equal parts of bread- crumbs and the scraped root. Serve in a tureen. Time, twenty minutes. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Horseradish Sauce (for cold roast beef). —^Wash and brush the horseradish. Soak it for an hour in cold water, and scrape it very finely with a sharp knife. Mix two table- spoonfuls of it with half a tea-spoonful of salt and a tea-spoonful of powdered mustard. Add gradually a quarter of a pint of cream, or, instead, the yolk of an egg mixed with three table-spoonfuls of olive-oU, and afterwards two table-spoonfuls of vinegar; stir in briskly but gradually. Mix well, and serve in a boat. Time, half an hour to prepare. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for five or six persons. Horseradish Sauce (for hot roast beef).—Prepare the sauce as above {see Horseradish Sauce for cold roast beef). Before serving, put it into a jar, and place this jar in a saucepan of boiling water. When quite hot the sauce is ready to serve, but it must not boil, or it will curdle. If used cold with hot meat, it will most likely cool everjiihing on the plate with it. Time, a few minutes to heat. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for five or six persons. Horseradish Sauce, Hot (for boiled fowls, &c.).— Prepare tho horseradish as before. Grate an ounce very finely, add a pinch of salt, and pour over it half a pint of good cream. Mix thoroughly, and serve in a boat. Time, half an hour to prepare. Pro- bable cost, lOd. Sufficient for five or six persons. Horseradish Sauce, Superior Fla- vouring for.—Kuh one large lump of sugar upon the peel of an orange until all the yellow part is taken off. j^und the sug-ar to powder, and squeeze the juice of the orange over it. Let it dissolve; then mix it with two table- spoonfuls of finely-grated horseradish, or, if preferred, a table-spoonful of horseradish and one of bread-crumbs; add half a tea-spoonful of salt, a small pinch of cayenne, three table- spoonfuls of oil, and sufficient vinegar to make a thick cream. Time, half an hour. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Horseradish Sauce with Apples (a Gonnan rccii)e). —Take a Uble-spoonful ofHOT HOR ( 319 ) finely-grated horseradish, and a table-spoonful of apples boiled to a pulp. Mix them well to- gether, add half a tea-spoonful of sugar, and two table-spoonfuls of vinegar, and serve in a tureen. Time, a few mmutes to prepare. Pro- bable cost, 2d. Sufficient for thi-ee or four persons. Horseradish Sauce with Cream (a German recipe).—Mix four table-spoonfuls of thick cream, ^vith two of white wine vinegar. Add a tea-spoonful of sugar, a tea-spoonful of salt, a pinch of cayenne, and as much grated horseradish as will make a thick sauce. Serve in a tureen. Time, a few minutes to prepare. ■ Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Horseradish Sauce with Eggs (a German recipe).—Boil two eggs hard. Wben cold, pound the yolks Avith the back of a wooden •spoon, and add very gradually three or four table-spoonfuls of vinegar, sufficient to make a ^smooth cream. Add three dessert-spoonfuls ■of grated horseradish and half a tea-spoonful of salt. Serve in a tureen. Time, ten minutes to boil the eggs. Probable cost, 3d. Suffi- cient for two or three persons. Horseradish Vinegar. — Take four ounces of grated horseradish. Put them into a jar, with a drachm of cayenne, an ounce of finely-minced shallots, and a tea-spoonful of salt. Pour over them a quart of boihng vinegar, cover closely, and keep in a warm place for a fortnight. Draw off the vinegar, let it boil once moie, strain it through a tamis, and keep it bottled closely until required. This vinegar will be found useful as a ireiiBh for cold meat, and for flavouring salads, &c. Probable cost, about 8d. Sufficient for a quart of vinegar. Hotch-potch.—Take two pounds of the narrow half of the round of beef. Cut it into pieces about two inches square, and put them -int« a stewpan, with a few scraps of fat beef or veall, Ave pints of water, and half a pint of •T)eer. Let these boU up, then add two large .carrots,sliced, two onions, two sticks of celery, two turnips, and some pieces of cauliflower. Cover the saucepan closely, and simmer gently for three hours. Melt two ounces of butter in .a saucepan. Mix a table-spoonful of flour ; smoothly with,it. Let it brown, dilute it with a little of the broth, season with ketchup, and ; add it to the rest of the etow. Let the broth boil ■ up once more, and add pepper and salt to taste. ; Serve in a large dish. Put the meat in the loniddle, the vegetables roTind, the gravy over : All,,and send to table as hot as possible. Hotch- -potch may be made with beef, mutton, lamb, fowl, or pickled pork, and with vegetables vary- ing according to the season. A mixture of two kinds of meat is very good, and some cooks mince the meat instead of serving it in cutlets. In the West Indies it is very commonly used I)y the natives, but is made so hot with pepper, ■that it is known by the name of " pepper -pot.'' Probable cost, 2s. for this quantity. Sufficient aor six or seven persons. Hotch-potch, Hotch-potch). Mutton {see Mutton Hotch-potch, Ox-tail,— Divide an 0 tail at the joints, rub it with salt, and soak it' in lukewarm water for an hour or two. Pr* 't into a stewpan with a scraped carrot, a small bunch of savoury herbs, a bay-leaf, two onions, one of them stuck with two cloves, a clove of garlic, six peppercorns, half a tea-spoonful of salt, and sufficient water to cover them. Simmer gently until the meat is tender, and leaves the bones easily. Thicken with flour and.butter, and serve with sippets round the dish. In the season, a pint of green peas, stewed in the gravy a few minutes before serving, is an improvement. Time, two hours. Probable cost, ox-tail, from Is. to 28. Sufficient for three or four persons. Hotch-potch, Scotch. — Take three quarts of good mutton broth. Put it into a deep stewpan, and let it boU; then put with it a quart of young vegetables sUced, including equal quantities of carrots, turnips, onions, finely-shred lettuce, sprigs of cauliflower, and a little chopped parsley. Add a pint of freshly- shelled green peas, and three pounds of mutton chops, cut either from the loin or the best end of the neck, and freed from all superfluous fat. If preferred, lamb may be substituted for mutton : in either case the meat must be fresh and sweet, and the vegetables young. Boil until the meat and vegetables are tender, then add another pint of peas and a little pepper and salt, and, when these are tender, serve in a deep dish. Time, about two hours. Pro- bable cost, 48. Sufficient for ten or twelve persons. Hotch-potch, Winter.—Put a pound of dried green peas into water to soak the night be- fore it is intended to make the hotch-potch. Take two pounds of the best end of the neck of mutton and two pounds of the shin or breast of beef. Cut the mutton into neat cutlets, free from all superfluous fat, and the beef into small square pieces. Set them aside until wanted. Put four quarts of water into a stewpan with two sliced carrots, two sliced turnips, four onions, a tea- spoonful of bruised celery-seed tied in musUn, the soaked peas, and a whole turnip and caiTot. Boil for two hours. Take out the whole can-ot and turnip, mash them to a pulp, and return them to the stew with the meat and a little pepper and salt. Simmer gently an hour longer, and serve as hot as possible. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. Sufficient for ten or twelve persons. Hotch-potch, Winter (another way),— See German Broth or Winter Hotch-potch, Hot Cross Buns.—Mix two pounds of flour with a small tea-spoonful of powdered spice and half a tea-spoonful of salt. Rub in half a pound of good butter. Make a hollow in the flour, and pour in a wine-glassful of yeast and half a pmt of warmed milk slightly coloured with saffron. Mix the surrounding flour with the milk and yeast to a thin batter; throw a little dry flour o-ver, and sot the pan before the fire to nse. WTien risen, work in a little sugar, one eg^r half a pound of currants, .and nulk to make a soft dough. Cover over as before, md let it stand half an hour. Then make the dough iuto huns, andHOW HOT ( 320 ) nrnrk thorn with the back of a knife. Time, fifteen to twenty minutes to bake. Probable cost, Id. each. Sufficient for twonty-four l)unH. Hot Cross Buns (another w&y).—See Good Fridiiy 15uns. Hot Pickle.—Mince an ounce of shallots very finely, and put into a stowpan with an ounce of whole ginger, two ounces of salt, a quarter of an ounce of mustard-sood, lialf an ^)unce of pepper, two drachms of cayonuu,, and half an ounce of allspice. Pour over them a quart of vinegar, and lot the mixture boil. Put it into a jar and lot it get cold, then add any fi-osh vegetables that are obtainable, such as cauliflowers, French beans, radish-pods, aspara- gus, or even green gooseberries and unripe apples. More pickle may be added when re- quired, and vegetables as they come into season. Probable cost of pickle, Is. 6d. Sufficient for as many vegetables as it wiU entirely cover. Hot Pint, Scotch.—Mix two table-spoon- fuls of cold ale with a well-beaten egg. Add a table-spoonful of sugar, half a nutmeg, grated, and a quarter of a pint of whiskey. Stir this jnixture into two pints of ale which- are just upon the point of boiling. Leave the ingre- dients on the fire till they nearly boil, but not quite ; then pour the hot pint quickly, and from a good height, from one jug to another, for three or four minutes. It should be served hot. Time, half an hour to prepare. Probable cost, lOd., exclusive of the whiskey. The above quantities are sufficient for three pints of the liquid. Hot Pot.—Take two pounds of chops from the best end of the neck, and one sheep's- kidney. Trim them neatly, cut off all super- fluous fat, and lay half of them in a deep dish well buttered, and with them a kidney, cut in slices. Sprinkle over them a little pepper and salt and a tea-spoonful of finely-minced o-iiions, and place upon them a quarter of a pound of potatoes cut in slices. Put two or three small lumps of dripping here and there, andrepeat until the meat is used and the dish nearly full. Cover the top with whole potatoes, pour half a pint of water or stock over, and bake in a moderate oven. A few oysters are by many considered an improvement, and for this purpose tinned oysters will be found to answer nearly as well as fresh ones, and to be much less ex- pensive. Half a tin will be sufficient for this quantity. Lay them upon the meat, pour a little of the liquid over them, and proceed as above. Time, three hours or more to bake. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Probable cost 2s. lOd. Hot Pot, Lancashire {see Lancashire Hot Pot). Hot Sauce, for Broils, &c.—Melt two oimccB of butter in a stewpan, stir m with it a table-spoonful of flour, and mix smoothly with the back of a wooden spoon until it is hghtly browned. Add gradually to it a quarter of a pint of good stock, stirring all the time; add also a tea-spoonful of chopped capors, a toa-spoonful of chopped shallots, a tea-spo-mful of mustard, half a tea-spoonful of essence of anchovy, a table-spoonful of walnut ketchup, a table-spoon- ful of port, or claret, and a quarter of a tea- spoonful of cayenne. BoU gently for six or seven minulos, and serve as hot as possible. Proltable cost, 4d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Hot Spice, for Flavouring Sauce, Gravies, &C.—Take half an ounce oadi of cinnamon,bla<kpepper,andginger. Poundtliein tlioroughly in a nioilar, and with them thi-ee- quarters of an ounce of cayenne, one ounce of mace, two ounces of finely-grated nutmeg, throe ounces of white pepper, and a dozen cloves. When thoroughly pounded and mixed put these ingre- dients into a bottle, and keep the spice closely stoppered until required. Time, half an hour to prei^are. Probable cost. Is. 8d. When it is to be used, try a little pinch of the powder at first, and add more if required. Household Gravy, Superior.—Take one pound of lean veal from the fillet. Put it into a stewpan, and with it any trimmings and bones of beef, veal, or mutton; but they must be perfectly sweet, or they will spoil the gnivy. Add half a pint of water, and simmer gently unto, a light glaze is formed at the bottom of the stewpan; then add a pint and a half of water, a small onion with one clove stuck in it, three sprigs of parsley and one of thyme, a small carrot, a bay-leaf, half a tea-spoonful of salt, and a quarter of a tea-spoonful of pepper. Boil; then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let its contents simmer gently for one hour. It must be only partially covered, or the gravy will not be clear. Take the fat off care- fully, strain the broth, and put it aside for use. It wall keep for three or four days if boiled occa- sionally and kept without cover in a cool place. A few spoonfuls ^vill improve sauces and gravies. The veal will be found excellent if cut into convenient-sized pieces and served with a few stewed mushrooms and a little of the gravy. Sufficient for a pint and half. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Housewife's Cream.—Rub the yellow part of a fresh lemon upon three ounces of loaf sugar; reduce the sugar to powder, and stir it until dissolved into half a pint of thick cream. Add the strained juice and a quarter of a pint of sherry, and whisk all well together until thick. Serve in custard-glasses, which should be kept in a cool j)lace until wanted. This cream is better if made a few hours before it is used. Just before serxing, dust a little powdered cinnamon or pink sugar over the top. Time, one hour to prepare. Probable cost, exclusive of the sherry, lOd. Sufficient for four glasses. Howtowdie (a Scotch dish).—Truss a young fowl as for boiling, and stuff it with good veal forcemeat. Put it into a saucepan with a closely-fitting lid, and .with it four ounces of fresh butter, half a pint of good stock, three sprigs of parsley and one of thj-mc, half a tea-spoonful of Kilt, a quarter of a toa- spoonful of pepper, six smaU onions, a bay-leaf, and one clove. Simmer gently for one hour if the chicken is young and Rinall, and longer if necessary. Whim it is half-cooked, turn it in the p.in ai d poui- another balf-pint of gravy( 321 ) HUH HTTN over it. Have ready some spinach. Press it iuto small balls; flatten these on the top, and lay a pouched e^g upon each. Put the fowl in the middle. Thicken the gravy, poui- it over the fowl, and serve as hot as possible. A few stewed mushrooms may be sent to table on a sepiirate dish. Sufficient for three or four per- sons. Probable cost of fowl, 2s. 6d. HuHgarian Tongue (a German recipe). —Take a fresh bullock's-tongue. Put it into a stowpan with a carrot, an onion, a clove of gai-lic, a bay-leaf, a tea-spoonful of salt, half a dozen peppercorns, half a fi-esh lemon sliced, and as much water as will cover it. Let it boil; then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, and simmer gently until the tongue is quite tender. Take ofl: the skin, and trim the tongue neatly; strain and reduce the gi'avy. Mix a table-spoonful of flour very smoothly with two ounces of butter. Keep stirring over the fire until it is lightly browned, and steam a bruised dove of garlic in the browning. Add gradually three-quarters of a pint of gravy, and when quite smooth and thick stir in the juice of half a lemon. Pour a little of the sauce into the dish with the tongue, and send the rest to table in a tureen. Garnish the dish with parsley and sliced lemon. Time, two houi-s to simmer the tongue. Probable cost of tongue, from 3s. 6d. to 4s. 6d. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Hung Beef (see Beef, Dutch, .or Hung, and Beef, Hung). Hunter's, or Spiced Beef.—Take a round of beef weighing from fifteen to twenty pounds. Let it hang a day or two; then rub it weU with a powder made by pounding together one pound of salt, an ounce and a half of saltpetre, half an ounce of allspice, half an ounce of black pepper, two ounces of moist sugar, and a tea-spoonful of herb- powder, if this be in the house; if not, it may be omitted. Take out the bone, and turn and rub the meat every day for a foitnight. At the end of that time wash it well with a soft sponge, put it into a stewpan, just cover it with water, bring it to a boil, and let it simmer gently for five hours. It may remain in the water in which it was cooked until it is nearly cold, if it is intended to be used at once ; but though this will improve the taste, it will prevent its keeping so long. The beef is better if kept uncut until cold. It wiU keep a fortnight or more in moderate weather. It is an excellent plan, instead of boiling the beef, to bake it. Put it into a pan with a sliced onion, a quart of water, and nearly three pounds of beef or mutton-suet cut small and placed- on the top of the beef. Cover with a coarse flour and water paste, and bake in a moderate oven. When cold, take off the crust; pour off the gravy, which will be found e.xcel- lent for soups and sauces. Put the suet into an earthen jar, and melt it slowly in a moderate oven. Pour it ofl:' frequently as it melts. It maybe used for frying, &c. The meat will keep for six weeks in moderate weather. Time, six hours to bake. Probable cost, lid. per pound. Hunter's Beef (another way).—Take as lean a piece as can be procui-ed of the flank of beef. Tho thin end is the best. Take out the bones, and rub the meat well every day for a fortnight with a mixture made of one pound of salt, one ounce of saltpetre, a quarter of a pound of moist sugar, one ounce of pounded allspice, one ounce of pounded cloves, and one grated nut- meg. At the end of the time roll it as closelj- and firmly as possible, and bind it securely Avith skewers and tape. Just cover it with water, and boil or bake it for five or six hours. Do not loosen the tapes, &c., until the meat is quite cold. Probable cost, 7^d. per pound. Hunter's Beef (another way).—See Beef, Hunter's. Hunter's Bread and Meat Pud^ ding.—Take two pounds of dough made with 5^east, such as would be used for bread; or if this cannot be obtained, use a dough mixed with the white of eggs. Roll it out an inch thick. Cut two pounds of rump-steak into small pieces. Pepper and salt each piece, and season it with a very small quantity of pounded allspice. Place the meat in rows on the dough, takmg care that a fatty piece is in each row; then roll the dough round and fasten it securely at the ends, very much like a roly-poly pudding. It may then be either baked or boiled. This is a convenient form of prepaiing provision for those who have to make long expeditions, and do not wish to be burdened with much luggage. Any sort of meat may be substituted for the rump- steak, and endless varieties may be introduced ; but the meat should always be cut into mouthfuls, and the ends securely fastened to prevent the gravy escaping. Time to boil or bake, two hours. Sufficient for four persons. Probable cost, 28. lOd., if made with rump- steak. Hunter's Gingerbread {see Ginger- bread, Himter's). Hunter's Partridge Pie {see Partridge Pie, Hunter's). Hunter's Pie.—Take two pounds of the best end of a neck of mutton, cut it into chops, trim these neatly, remove all superfluous fat, add pepper and salt, put them into a stew- pan. with a small quantity of water, and let them stew gently for half an hom: Boil and mash three or four pounds of good potatoes. Line a buttered pie-dish with them, put in the meat and gravy, and shape a crust over the top of the remainder of the potatoes. Bake in a good oven for half an hour. If the pie is not nicely browned, hold a red-hot fire- sliovel over it for a minute or two. Just before serving make an incision in the middle of the crust, and pour in a little boiling gravy. Pro- bable cost, 2s. Sufficient for five or six persons. Hunter's Pudding.—A hunter's pud- ding and a pliun pudding are very similax. Mix haK a pound of finely-shi-ed beef-suet with a quarter of a pound of bread-crumbs and a quarter of a pound of flour, add half a pound of stoned and chopped raisins, half a pound of picked currants, half a pound of sugar, the grated rind and strained juice of haH a lemon «• pjucfe oi Palt, half a. nuf.TOeja;, erated, and aa( 322 ) ICjl HUN ounce of candied lemon. When the dry ingre- dients arc thoroughly mixed, stir in four well- beaten eggs, and either milk, beer, port wine, or brandy sufficient to make a stiff batter. Put the mixture into a buttered mould, and boil for six or seven hours. Tliis pudding will keep for several months, and when used may be cither cut into slices and fi-ied, or plunged again into boiling water and boiled for an hour. Several puddings may be mixed and boiled together, and are very useful for keeping in the house to be used as occasion requires. If finely- minced cooked meat be substituted for the suet, this pudding may be eaten cold. Another excel- lent hunter's pudding may be made by taking a pound and a half of the mince made for mince pies, mixing it with six ounces of finely-grated bread-crumbs and three eggs. Probable cost, Is. 3d., exclusive of the wine, &c. Sufficient for five or six persons. Hunter's Salmi. — Take cold roast game—if under-dressed so 'much the better— carve it into neat joints, remove the skin, &c., score the flesh lightly across in two or three places, dredge a little salt and cayenne over, and put them into a saucepan. Squeeze the strained juice of a lemon over them, and add a tea-spoonful of finely-minced lemon-rind, three table-spoonfuls of the best salad-oil, and six of light wine. Let the pieces of meat remain until they are quite hot, and send rusks or grilled crusts to table with them. Time, a few minutes to heat through. Probable cost, 4d., exclusive of the game and wine. Sufficient, one bird for two or three persons. Hunter's Sandwiches.—When sand- wiches have to be kept a little while in the pocket before being used, they should be toasted -lightly on the outside. This will keep them from criunbling. Hunter's Soup.—Partially roast a brace of well-kept partridges, or a partridge and a grouse. Put them ratber close to a clear fire, and baste tbem plentifully. As soon as tbe outside is well browned take them up, and when nearly cool cut tbe meat from the bones in neat fillets, and bruise the bones thoroughly. Cut half a pound of lean ham into dice, and fry these in two ounces of butter witb a sliced carrot, an onion, and a little parsley. Mix in very smoothly two table-spoonfuls of flour or ground rice, and when slightly browned add two quarts of strong beef gravy, the bruised bones, and a little salt and cayenne. Simmer gently for two hours, then strain the soup. Add the slices of meat and a glass of claret, and let it heat once more without boiling. Serve the meat with the soup. Time, twenty minutes to roast the partridges. Probable cost, uncertain, game bemg variable in price. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Hunting Game Pie {see Game Pie, Hunting). Hyssop Tea (Invalid Cookehy) .—Pour a quart of boiling water over half an ounce of dried hyssop-flowers. Cover it closely, and let it remain for a quarter of an hour. Strain the infusion, and swooton it-s\nth a table-spoonful ot boncy. Two table-spoonfuls should bo taken three times a day. Hyssop tea is good for chest diseases. Probable cost, 3d. Suflicient for a quart. Ice Colour.—Ices are sometimes coloured simply with cochineal, but we api>end the follow- ing recipe, copied from good authority :—Boil over a slow fire for five or six minutes in a pint of water, or clarified sugar if not to be used too quickly, equal quantities of cochineal (bruised) and salts of wormwood, an ounce of each. Add three ounces of cream of tartar, and an ounce of rock alum; but remove the saucepan from the fire before putting in the cream of tartar, &c., or it will boil over, and the whole mixture will be spoiled. Ice, Mock.—Dissolve an ounce of gelatine in a cupful of milk. Put ydth it one pint of fresh fruit (strawberries, raspberries, or red currants) which has been rubbed through a sieve, and add half a pint of cream and a little sugar. Put the cream into a mould tiU set. If liked, melted jam can be used instead of the fruit pulp. Ice, Preservation and Cutting of. —Ice may be preserved by burying it in saw- dust, or wrapping it first in paper then in flannel, and keeping it in a tub with flannel thrown over. The paper and flannel must be changed when wet. Ice may be divided into small pieces by placing a needle point down- wards on the ice, and striking the head of it with a small hammer. Iced Pudding.—Make a custard with half a pint of milk, the yolks of four eggs, two ounces of sugar, and a little vanilla. When thick and smooth add half a pint of cream and half a gill of maraschino. Freeze till stiff. Take two ounces of stale sponge cake soaked in cream and two ounces of dried fruit consisting of dried cherries and pine-apple cut small. Put the mould in ice. Place a little of the ice cnmm at the bottom, then a layer of fruit and another of sponge cake. Repeat till the mould is full Cover closely and imbed in ice. Iced Pudding (another way).—Beat up eight eggs, and add to them tweh'e ounces of good sugar and a pint and a half of new milk. Poimd together in a mortar sweet and bitter almonds, half a pound of the former and two ounces of the latter, which should be blanched, and dried in a clean cloth, then pounded, and put with the other ingredients into a well- lined saucepan. Stir, and let the pudding thicken, but do not let it boil. Strain and put it into the freezing-pot for half an hour, when it should be transposed to an ice-pudding mould, and kept in the ice imtil required for use. Serve turned out, with a compote of fruit in the dish, and some over the top of the pudding A gill of cura90K, maraschino, or any other liqueur will improve the pudding. Iced Punch.—Get three medium-sized lemons, or two liirge ones, with good roug'ii rinds, and eight ounces of sugar in lumps.iCE IMP ( 323 ) Rub off the outer lemon-rind on the sugar, also the rind of two China oranges. Dissolve the sugar by pouring the juice of the fruit (which should be squeezed dry) over it, and then press- ing and stii-ring it until thoroughly mixed, as much depends on the careful incorporation of the juices with the sugar; add water (boiling) until the sherbet, for so it is called, is of the desired flavour, and when cool enough, pour in brandy and rum—a pint of each will be suffi- cient. This wiU make four quarts of excellent punch. The Italians beat the whites of eggs to froth, and add it to the sherbet; it is then iced, and served in glasses. The sherbet is much richer if the lemon-pulp be beaten in with the sugar, but it should be strained before the spu'its are added to it. Iceland Moss Jelly.—Wash four ounces of Iceland moss in warm water, and having drained it set it over the fire in a quart of cold water. Stir until it boils, when it should be covered up and allowed to simmer for an hour. Add four ounces of sugar, a gill of sherry, the juice of two lemons, the rind of half a lemon, and the white of an egg whisked with half a gill of cold water; stir the jelly until it boils, and strain through a flannel bag. This moss is considered efficacious in cases of debility and chest com- plaints, but its bitter taste renders it disagree- able. Ices.—For the following ices see under their respective headings:— Almond Cream Milanese Almond and Orange Millb Fruit Apple Water Noyeau Ice Cream Apricot Ice Cream Oranoe Water Apkicot Water Orgeat Cream Barberry Water Peach Cream Ice Bohemian Ice Cream Peach Water Bread, Brown, Ice Pine-apple Water Cream Pomegranate Water Cherry Water Raspberry- Cream Chocolate Cream Ratafia Cream Cinnamon Cream Rum Ice Coffee Ice Cream Sherbkt Currant Cream Strawberry Cream Currant Water Strawberry Icb and Ginger Cream Vanilla Ice in Ginger Water one mould Grape Water Strawberry Water Lemon Ice Cream Vanilla Cream LIaraschino Water Ice. Melon Water leas, Sugar Clarified for—Dissolve SIX pounds of sugar m four quarts of water. Let it then come slowly to a boil; add the white of an egg, well beaten, to the water, and boil ten minutes, when it may be strained and bottled. It is difficult to freeze ices which are over sweet.' Icing for Cakes {see Frost or Icing for Cakes). ° Icing for Cakes, Almond {see Abnond Icing for Cakes). Icing for Fruit Pies and Tarts.— Betore putting the pie or tart in the oven, wet it all over with cold water, sprinkle fine white sugar thickly on it, and press this lightly With the hand. Imperial.—Slice a large lemon without paring it, and bruise well two ounces of ginger. Put these into an earthen jar with two pounds of loaf sugar and an ounce of cream of tartar. Pour over it two gallons of boiling water, and let it remain until cold; then stir in two table- spoonfuls of yeast, and cover. Strain the next day, and bottle, when it will be fit for use in twenty-four hours. Or, take double the quantity of cream of tartar and lemon, pour over these six quarts of boiling water, and add a quart of rum and sugar to taste. Strain it the next day, when the imperial should bo bottled and tightly corked. Probable cost, exclusive of rum. Is. 6d. Imperial Cake.—Separate the yolks from the whites of six eggs, beat the yolks until light, and the whites to a firm froth. Have ready the crumb of three French rolls soaked in milk and squeezed dry. Beat the bread and four ounces of warmed butter together, then add the egg-yolks, two ounces of fine sugar (pounded), and some grated lemon-peel. Wliile beating the mixture, add currants, sultana raisins, pounded blanched almonds, and candied peel, two ounces of each, and lastly stir in the frothed whites of the eggs. Bake in a shallow cake-tin and a moderate oven. Sprinkle the tin with fine crumbs, and the cake, when done, with fine sugar. Time, one hour. Probable cost, 2s. Imperial Cream.—Put the strained juice of thi'ee lemons into a rather deep glass dish. Boil a quart of cream with the thin rind of a lemon, and pour it into a jug, stii'ring in at the same time, by degrees, eight ounces of finely- powdered sugar. Keep the cream stii-red until it is nearly cold, and the sugar is quite dissolved, then add it to the strained juice, keeping the jug as high as possible, and mixing the juice and cream well together as it falls from the spout of the jug. This cream should be allowed several hours to set. Probable cost, 2s. 3d. Imperial Drink.—Put half an ounce of cream of tartar into a large jug, which should be well heated first, add the rind of a large lemon, a quarter of a pound of lump sugar, and about three pints of boiling water from the kettle. Cover closely, and let the jug stand near the fire for an hour or so. Stir the liquid occasionally while hot, and when quite cold and clear, pour off from the sediment. This is a cooling and pleasant drink for the summer. Probable cost, 3d. Imperial Gingerbread.—Take twelve ounces of dried flour, and blend with it six ounces of butter. Make into a paste with a pint of cream and six ounces of treacle stirred together by degrees before being added to the flour; the cream is liable to get turned if this is not carefully done. Strew in an ounce of cara- way seeds, with a quarter of a pound of sugar, and half an ounce of powdered ginger. The paste should be stiff. When cut into shapes, stick candied orange or lemon peel on the top, and bake on a tin plate, well buttered. Time, ten to fifteen minutes to bake. Probable cost, 2s. 6dk for this quantity*IND ( 324 ) IMP Imperial Gingerbread (another way). —Giiigorbri'tid, Tniporiiil. Imperial Punch, Cold.—Cut a pino- applo into vory thin hlicnH, and alim u\m four closoly-poolud China orangoa, loaving nonti ol' tho whito pith attached to the orange-sliiioB. I'ut tlio slices into a bowl. Extract the flavour from an inch length of vanilla, and a pioce of cinnamon, about a drachm in weif^lit, by heating them in a quai't of water with the peel of a ISovillo orange. Ivub oif tho rind of a lenion on a lump or two of sugar, and squeeze the j uiae from four lomo.ns into the bowl, adding tho sugar with more leraon-juico to make half a pound, then strain in the vanilla liquid, and cover to get cold. When quite cold mix a bottle each of rum, hock, and champagne, with a pint of seltzer water. Stir well, and serve in champagne glasses, cold. Imperial Schmarn.—Separate the yolks from the whites of livo eggs, whisk the yolks with a pint of cream, and froth the whites, which will be required when all the other ingre- dients are mixed. Add to the yolks four ounces of fine flour—made sweet with a table- spoonful of double-refined sugar—an ounce of sultana raisins, the same of blanched almonds, chopped, and, lastly, the frothed whites, which should be stirred in gently with the rest. Have ready hot, in a clean stewpan, two ounces of butter, pour in the schmarn or batter, let the fire be brisk, and allow it to colour well, but not to burn; then with an iron spatula, or fork, tear the schmarn lightly apart, and allow it to set and brown again, when the same crumbling or tearing process is to be repeated; and when it has encrusted a second time, break it up smaller, and serve without delay, with pounded sugar and vanilla mixed together strewn over the top. Probable cost. Is. lOd. Iniperial Soup.—To a gill of clear well- flavoured stock mix three beaten eggs, two spoonfuls of cream, salt and pepper. Stir the liquid, and put it in a buttered basin or mould. Cover with greased paper, that no water may enter, and steam the custard gently till set. When cool turn it out, cut it iuto thin slices, and divide these into small diamonds or squares. Serve in a tureen of clear soup. Probable cost, 6d. Sufiicient for two quarts of soup, and eight or ten persons. Imperials.—Beat six ounces of butter to a cream, and mix it well into a pound of dried flour, and eight ounces of sifted sugar. Cut two ounces of candied orange-peel into bits, and grate the rind of a small lemon. Add gradually half a pound of currants which have been washed, stoned, and dried perfectly. Moisten with four well-beaten eggs, and bake to a pale brown in a gentle oven on a floured tin plate, in the form of little heaps, which is best done by placing the paste with two forks as roughly as po>-5iblc, and at uniform distances upon the plate. Time, about twenty minutes. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Indian Bread and Meat, or Koobbe. —This is a dish frequently met with in India and Australia, and particularly suitable for c.unping or picnics, as it docs not require many pots and panB. An ordinary bread dough h rolled out to any tliiokness (the thicker the better), a piece of meat, a lino goose, duck, or fowl ia enveloped in it, and boiled or baked as may be most convenient. Poultry with apjjropriate sauces may bo cooked thus with little trouble, except tho caution which must uecessiiiily be observed, to keep the stufliug well secured before the Ijirds are jmt into the dough. Indian Burdwan.—A very savoury and higlily-approvod Indian dish. The joints of a parboiled fowl are generally used for this dish, but if necessary the remains of chicken or fowls that hitve been served before, and even rabbit, veal, or lamb may be warmed up in tho sauce, for which the following is the recipe :— Peel and chop very finely four shaUots and an onion. Put them into a stewpan with a small cup of good stock, a table-spoonful of the essence of anchovies, a little cayenne, and an ounce of butter rolled in flour. Stir over the fire until the sauce is ready to boil, then put it aside to sim- mer till the onions are done, adding a small cupful of mi.xcd Indian pickles, cut into less than haK-inch pieces, a table-spoonful of chili vinegar, and one or two glasses of wine, Madeira or sherry. Simmer the sauce to make the pickles tender, and pour in the wine when the fowl is ready to be stewed. Skin and lay the fowl in neat pieces into the stewpan with the sauce, and if the fowl has been only parboiled, stew it gently for fifteen or twenty minutes, but for a thoroughly cooked fowl serve as soon as it is ready to boil, with the juice of a fresh lime. Rice is sometimes served with Burdwan as with curry. Indian Burdwan (another way).—Set Bui'dwan, Indian. Indian Chutney.—Boil together a pint of good vinegar with half a pound of sour, unripe apples, peeled, cored, and quartered. When pulped and cool, add, first pounding them separately in a mortar and afterwards together, the following ingredients:—Four oimces of stoned raisins, eight ounces of brown sugar, two ounces of garlic, and two ounces of mus- tard-seed ; mix these well with two ounces of powdered ginger, the same of salt, and one ounce of cayenne. Put the mixture into an earthenware jar, and set the jar in a warm comer by the fire until next morning, when the chutney may be put into small jars and tied down. It wiU keep good a year or two. Time to stew apples, until soft. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Indian Corn-flour Bread.—Take In- dian maize and fine whoaten flour in the pro- portions of two pounds of the former to four pounds of the latter. Mix in an earthen pan, with a little salt to flavour, and two table- spoonfuls of yeast stirred into half a pint of warm water. Put the yeast into it, after making a hol- low in the centre, and make a batter of the sur- rounding flour, which must be-covered lightly with flour and with a warm wooUcn cloth, and placed before the fire to rise for an hour or more. "WTicn well risen, knead the flour into a smooth dough with as much more warm water as will be neccssarj-, and then make it intoIND ( 325 ) IND loaves which should bo allowed to rise foi nearly half an hour before being baked. Time, an hour and three-quarters to two hours. Suffi- cient for two loaves. Indian Corn-flour Bread (another ^y).—See Bread, Indian Corn. Indian CresSjNasturtiums, Pickled. The young leaves and flowers are some- times used as an ornamental addition to salads. The berries should be gathered in August and September for pickling; they are used by some as a substitute for capers. Put them as they are gathered, after rubbing them in a di-y cloth, into vinegar, and allow to each quart two ounces of salt, and fifteen pepper- corns. Put the vinegar, &c., into bottles, and fill with the nasturtium seed as it is gathered fi-om day to day. When full, cork tightly. Indian cress is seldom to be bought, but it is easily cultivated, and thrives well in poor soil. Indian Cress, Nasturtiums, Pickled (another way).—Gather the nasturtiums before they get old and dry. Wash the grit from them in cold water, and sprinkle well with salt. Drain them the next day, and when quite dry scatter amongst them, in an earthen picklo-jar, whole pepper, a few cloves, tarragon leaves, and sliced horseradish. Pour vinegar enough to cover, and let it be cold. Indian Crumpets.—Stir into a quart of warmed milk two large table-spoonfuls of yeast, a httle salt, and as much wheat flour as will thicken the milk to a batter. Cover it up closely by the side of the fire imtil next morning, then add a gill of melted butter, and make into a soft dough with yellow com-meal. Eub a griddle over with butter, and bake about fifteen minutes. Probable cost, Is. Indian Curry — Cut two pounds of imdressed meat, sweetbreads, fowls, or rabbits, with a rasher of bacon, into neat pieces or joints. Stew in a quarter of a pound of butter a clove of gailic, and an onion or two chopped, take these up when brown, fry the meat in the same fat, drain it and lay it in a saucepan. Mix three dessert-spoonfuls of curry-powder, a table-spoonful of flour, and a tea-spoonful of salt, in sufficient water to make it into a smooth prtste, then add a little more water, if required; shake the mixture well in the stewpan till it boils. Pour the gravy over the meat, simmer gently tiU this is tender. Before serving add a table-spoonful of lemon-juice. Serve the rice in a separate dish, the gravy in the dish with the meat. Time, an hour or more to stew. Indian Curry.—Beat up two eggs with a quarter of a pint of milk, and beat well into the milk a slice of bread previously soaked in milk. Pound a few sweet almonds, and fry a sliced onion in an ounce of butter. Mix all well together with a table-spoonful of curry, another ounce of butter, and six or eight ounces of minced fowl or other cold cooked meat, seasoned with salt. Melt a little butter with 30me lemon-juice, rub a baking-dish with it, and fill with the curry. Serve boiled rice sepa- rately. Time, half an hour. Probable cost, Is., exclusive of the meat. Indian Curry-powder.—It is necessary to have all the seeds used in the preparation of cuny-powder well dried. A cool oven will dry them best. Put them in at night, they will be ready for pounding in the morning. Pound together an ounce each of coriander and poppy-seed, half an ounce of ground ginger, and the same of mustard-seed, with a quarter of an ounce of red chilies, and half a di-achm of cinnamon. Cork the bottle containing this mixture tightly. Indian Curry, Simple.—Cut up a chicken into nice joints. Pound in a mortar a small'.! onion, a clove of garhc, together with an ounce of good curry-powder, and a tea- spoonful of salt. Fry a sliced onion in butter till quite brown, take out the pieces, and with the hot butter mix the above ingredients, adding a giU of stock and another of cream. Put in the chicken, and simmer till done. Time to stew the chicken, half an hour. Probable cost, 3s. Sufficient for two persons. Indian Devil Mixture.—To a table- spoonful each of vinegar, ketchup, and chutney- paste add an ounce of dissolved butter, a dessert-spoonful of made mustard, salt, and a small cup of good rich gravy. Blend these ingredients thoroughly, and rub them into the meat. Make all hot together slowly. Time, ten minutes to make hot. Indian Dish of Fowl {see Fowl, In- dian Dish of). Indian Fagadu.—Pick the meat from a lobster and a pint of shrimps, cut it into small bits, and season it with an onion and a clove of garlic, shred finely, and some cayenne and salt. Prepare some spinach as for boiling—put it into a stewpan in the usual way, without water—. add the lobster, and stew gently with an onion or two sliced, and previously fried in butter, keeping the lid closed for some time. When nearly done, stir the contents over the fire to absorb the moisture, and when quite dry, squeeze in some lemon-juice. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. • Indian Fritters. — Put three table- spoonfuls of flour into a basin, and mix it to a stiff paste with boiling water. Stir brisklj', and beat the batter well or it will not be smooth. Break into the basin two eggs with their whites, and two more yolks without the whites; the batter must be cool before they are put to it, and when beaten well together with a wooden spoon should have the frothed whites of two eggs added just before frying. Drop the batter from a spoon into boiling lard. The fritters will rise very high, and only require a little batter; a dessert-spoonful is quite sufficient to make them a nice size. Preserve or mar- malade is sensed between the fritters. Time, six to eight minutes to fry. Probable cost, 5d., exclusive of preserve. Sufficient for four or five persons. Indian Gingerbread.—Put a small tea- cupful of water mto a saucepan, and stir well in it, over a slow fire, three-quarters of a pound of pounded sugar and four ounces of butter until they are dissolved; then work the mixtureIND ( 326 ) IND into one pound of good dry flour spiced with poimdod^ g-inf,'or, cinnamon, and cIovoh—two ouncoa of ginjL^or to halt' an ounco of cinniuuon and cloves mixed. Bake on tins, either in nuts or cakes. Time, about a quarter of an liour. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Indian Griddle Cake.—To one quart of now milk add as much Hour as will make a thick batter. Mi.x witli the milk two ogf,'8 well beaten before the mixing, and with the flour a little salt. Eub butter over a hot gi-iddle; drop the batter from a table-spoon on to it, and bake at once. Indian Le Bon Diable.—Make deep scores in the meat to be devilled. If of poultry, the drumsticks, gizzard, and rump are the best for this savoury dish. It is usually prepared at table to suit the palates of the consumers, and from thence sent to the cook to broil. Powder every part with a mixture of the fol- lowing ingredients :—Of salt, cayenne, and curry-powdor, equal quantities, and a double quantity of mushroom or truffle powder. Heat some of the gravy from the dishes com- posing the grill, and when boiling hot pour it over with a little lemon-juice. Indian Maize.—Take Indian corn-pods when about as large as radishes. Put them into an earthenware jar, and cover them with boiling vinegar. Intersperse bay-leaves mode- rately, and a little basilicum crumbled up: or throw the young ears into a saucepan of boiling salted water for two or three minutes—just time enough to restore the water to the boil— and then drain. Boil bay-leaves, chUi-pods or capsicums, shallots, and a small bit of garlic in vinegar. Pour the vinegar when cold over the corn-ears, sprinkling mustard-seed plentifully over the top of the jar. Cover the jars with bladder, and keep them in a cool place. Indian Meal, Batter Cakes of {see Batter Cikes of Indian Meal). Indian Meal Fritters.—Make a batter as for other fritters with four or five table- spoonfuls of meal, a pint of warm milk, and four weU-beaten eggs. Drop the batter into hoiUng lard from a ladle; have plenty in the pan. Keep each fritter separate, and serve, after drying before the fire, as quickly as dos- sible, that they may not cool. Time, tun to twelve minutes to frj'. Indian Meal Johnny Cakes.—Mak) into a firm dough one quart of Indian meal, using as much warm water as may be required, and a little salt. Scoop out some of the meal from the centre, pour in the water, and mix in the usual way. Knead the dough, and roll it to about an inch in thickness. Lay the cake on a woll-buttcred griddle over a clear brisk fire, and toast it on both sides. When done, servo at once, split and buttered. This is a favourite American cake, eaten with fried pork. Indian Meal, Loaf Cake of {see Loaf Cake, itc.) Indian Meal Mush.—A popular and substantial article of American food, ])ropured like the Irish sliraboul or Scotch purridgo. it requires longer boiling and more careful mixing than oatmeal. The meal should bo mixed with boiling water or milk gradually, and stiired rapidly between each handful to prevent it from lumping. It requires long boiling, and when boiled is served with salt, sugar, and milk separately ; or it may be put into a well- buttered basin and served, turned out while still warm. A half pint of Indian meal mixed with a quart of boiling milk will make a good pudding, with the addition of an egg, two ounces of butter melted and stirred in, some pounded sugar, a little salt, nutmeg, and ginger. Bake in a well-buttered dish. The yellow corn-meal is the richest. For a boiled suet pudding mix flour with the suet when chopped, or it will not separate equally but become massed together. Moisten with milk, and knead and beat the dough, which should be fixm, with the rolling-pin to make it light. Make into dumplings of the size of a large apple, and boil them separately tied up in cloths loosely to give room for swelling. The much- approved polenta is made with partly-cooked mush turned into a weU-buttered shallow baking-dish, and mixed up with grated cheese ; to be baked from fifteen to twenty minutes— half a pound of mush to two ounces of grated cheese. To bake pudding, two hours; boil, one hour and a half. Indian MuflQins.—Take one quart of yellow corn meal, and stir boiling water into it to make a thick batter. When cool add two ounces of butter, a little salt, and two eggs. Bake at once in small cakes on a griddle, and when one side is brown turn the cakes over. If liked, add a tea-spoonful of j'east, and make into a dough of soft consistence, which should be covered up in a warm place to rise. Bake in rings as soon as risen. The dough will take about two hours to rise. Sufficient, one mufiin to each person. Indian Mullagatawny Soup.—For this favourite Indian soup take a couple of chickens, a large fowl, a knuckle of veal, or a calf's head, ANdth the trimmings, bones, and gristles of the breast of veal. Make a good strong stock; this must be carefully attended to. Cut the meat into pieces—mouthfuls—or the fowl into small joints, and simmer gently in about half a gallon of water. Fry six middle- sized onions and a couple of cloves of parhc shred fine, in two oimces of butter. Pound and mix well together an ounce of coriander seed,^ a quarter of an ounce each of chives, turmeric, and cassia, two drachms of cayenne, and rather more of black pepper. Put these ingredients with two large spoonfids of rice flour into a basin, mix them with some of the broth the meat has been boiled in, and strain to the rest. Simmer until the soup is about the thickness of cream Before taking it off the fire add the juice of a lemon to flavour it. Some people use- sour apples or other acids in muUagataXs-ny, but the lemon-juice is preferable. Serve the meat in the soup and boiled rice scparatel.v: cut lemons on a plate. Time, simmer from two to, three hours. Probable cost, 2s. per quart.. Sufliciont for eight persons. Indian Mustard.—To a mixture of mus- tard and flour in ec^ual q^uantities, rubbed to H( 327 ) IND ISfD smooth stiff paste with boiling water, add a little salt, and reduce the thickness as follows:— Boil down four shallots, shred finely, with a wine-glass each of \'inegar and mushi-oom ketchup, and half a glass of anchovy sauce. In ten minutes pour these ingredients, boiling hot, into the basin over the mustard and flour mixture, stirring imtil it is smooth and of the proper consistency. Put a shallot, bruised, into each bottle when stored.. Indian mustard will keep for some time, and is excellent as a break- fast relish. Time, ten minutes to boil. Suffi- cient for a quarter of a pound of mustard. Indian Omelet [see Omelet, Indian^. Indian Oysters, Curried.—Cut a large onion, or two middle-sized ones, into thin slices, and fry them in butter until brown. Dredge into the pan four dessert-spoonfuls of curry- powder, and stir in two more ounces of butter. When the mixture is quite smooth, thin it with half a pint of good warm broth, and keep it stirred until it boils. Put it into a clean stew- pan with the white part of a finely-grated cocoa-nut and a minced sour apple, when it must be again made to boil. Stir imtil the apple is dissolved and the cocoa-nut is tender, then mix a little flour and water as thickening, and when thick add the oysters (a hundred, carefully bearded, with their liquor strained), also the milk of the cocoa-nut, if sweet. Sim- mer until the oysters are hot. Serve on a hot dish, with boiled rice in another. Time, twenty-five minutes to make curry; one minute to stew oysters. Indian Oysters,Curried (another way). —See Oysters, Curried, Indian. Indian Pancake.—Boil half a tea-cupful of rice in milk and beat it to a pulp, add it to three eggs well beaten, sweeten with sugar and flavour with pounded cinnamon. Fry the whole of the mixture in butter. Do not turn the pancake, but when done on one side remove from the pan to the front of the fire to brown the upper side. Strew pounded sugar over, and divide the pancake into four parts before sending it to table. Time, seven or eight minutes to frj'. Probable cost, 6d. Indian Pickle. —Place in a large dish a white cabbage cut into eight divisions, haK a poimd of. small branches of cauliflower, equal quantities of gherkins, French beans, radish- pods, and small onions, also nasturtiums, capsi- cums, chilies, and any other suitable vegetables. Powder them well with salt, and let them remain for a day or two. Drain dry, and put them into a jar, with sufficient vinegar to cover: the vinegar, having been previously boiled, should be poured into the jar cold. Be careful to let the vinegar cover the vegetables, or the pickle will not keep, and to mix the spice equally among the vegetables before the vinegar is poured oyer them. Use spice as follows—the quantity given is for a gallon of vinegar—three ounces of gmger sliced, the same old black and long pepper mixed, twenty shallots, peeled, one clove of garlic, or more if the flavour is not objected to, a quarter of an ounce of cayenne, a | quai-ter of a pound of flour of mustard, two ' ounces of salt, an ounce of turmeric, and two ounces of mustard-seed. Fruit, such as green grapes, codling apples, &c., may be added at any time as they appear in season; but the proportions of spice and vinegar must be attended to, and any addition to the jar should be first soaked an hour or two in vinegar before being added. When no more additions are to be made, put the pickles into small jars, boil the vinegar, pour it at once over the pickles so as to cover them, and, when cold, tie down with bladder. If the above directions are attended to this pickle may be kept good many years. When more spice and vinegar are required, mix the spice with a little of the cold vinegar first, and then boil it. When boiled, pour it hot over the pickles. Indian Pickle (another way).—Cut two cauliflowers and two finn cabbages into quarters, sprinkle them well with salt, and let them lie in the sun for three days. Soak one pound of ginger with two cloves of garlic in salt and water for one day, drain, and dry them also in the sun. When all is ready, put the vegetables into a large stone jar, and add one gallon of vinegar, twelve ounces of crushed peppercorns, one pint of powdered or bruised mustard-seed, and two ounces of turmeric. Cover the jar tightly with bladders, and in six months, if the above directions have been attended to, the pickle will be fit for use. Indian Pickle Sauce.—Fry an onion until brown in butter, remove it from the stew- pan, and stir in a dessert-spoonful of curry- powder, and a table-spoonful of pickle vinegar. Strain and add the sauce to a quarter of a pint of rich melted butter. Cut pickles into dice, and serve them in the sauce. Indian Pilau {see Pilau, Indian). Indian Pilau, Plain.—Cut a fowl into neat pieces, remove the skin, and fry them in a stewpan, with four or five ounces of butter. Take out the fowl, and mix in a table- spoonful of curry-powder, a little salt, and some Indian pickles cut into fine strips; mangoes, however, are preferable, if they are at hand. Return the cut-up fowl to the pan and set the whole to stew very leisurely by the side of the fire for three-quarters of an hour. Have ready about a pound of well-boiled rice: it should be dry, so that the grains may separate one from the other. Pile it high in the middle of a dish, on which arrange the fowl, and serve with the sauce poured on the top and round the dish. Sufficient for three or four persons. Pro- bable cost, 4s. 3d. Indian Pilau, Real.—Boil a fowl or a piece of meat (about three pounds of veal wUl do), and reserve the liquor in which it is boUed. Put four ounces of butter into a stewpan, slice a couple of onions, and fry these, with a few cloves and a small bit of cinnamon, until the onions are slightly coloured, then stir in three-quarters of a pound of rice. Stir with a fork, until the rice has imbibed the butter, when pour in the reserved liquor from the fowl, and enough veal broth to reach two inches above the rice ; keep it over a gentle" fire until rather tender. ' Clear the rice a little from the centre, and place the( 328 J fowl in tho hollow. Stew the rice thoroughly iintil tho moisturo is woll driod up. Tlion plaoo tho fowl or moat in a duop dish, ami Bmothor it witli tho rico. Havo roudy souio Buiall ouiona hoihid; luako a garnish of tlutso and hard-boilod eggs cut into quarters. AiTango blanched almonds, raisins, and a fow cloves with them. Time to hoil tho fowl, about an hour. Probable cost of fowl, 38. 6d. Sufficient for four or fivo persons. Indian Pooloot.—Truss a fowl in tho ordinary way for boiling. Havo ready a quart of stock, and a pound of rico that has boon par- boiled for hvo minutes and then di'aiued from the water. Put the fowl with them into a stewpan over a slow fire. Add some onion- juico (pound half a dozen, and extract all their moisturo by squeezing them in a thin cloth), a table-spoonful of ground ginger tied in a muslin, and the juice of a lemon. When the fowl is sufficiently done, keep it warm, and dry the rice before the fire. Have ready three or four onions, sliced and nicely fried in butter. Cut up the fowl into neat pieces, and fry these in the same butter, then pile tho rice in the centre of a dish ; the joints of fowl on the top, and the sliced onions next the fowl lightly scattered. Strew stewed cardamoms and pep- percorns over all. Garnish with fried curled bacon and slices of hard-boiled eggs. Serve hot. Time to boil fowl, three-quarters of an hour. Sufficient for four or five persons. Indian Pudding.—Beat up five eggs with a quarter of a pound of butter, and a cnmbled penny spongecake. Boil, but first grate, a cocoa-nut, putting aside all the brovm part, in a pint of milk. In ten minutes set the milk to cool, and when sufficiently cooled stir it into the eggs, then put all into a dish previously lined with puff paste, and bake from a half to three-quarters of an hour in a moderate oven. Probable cost, about Is. 6d. Sufficient for seven or eight persons. Indian Padding (another way).—Butter a pudding-mould, and place on the inside pieces of preserved ginger, cut into nice tasteful forms. Lay slices of spongecake in a bowl, and pour over them a pi7;.t of boiling cream, into which, when well soaked,beat sugar enough to sweeten (say about two ounces), and half a dozen well- whisked eggs. Beat the mixture, and fill the buttered basin. The pudding may be steamed or boiled from three-quarters of an hour to an hour, or till firm. The sjTupfrom the gmger is usually served warmed up as sauce. Turn out the pudding, and send it hot to table, with the sauce poured over it. Probable cost, exclu- sive of ginger, 2s. 4d. The above ingredients are sufficient for four small sponge cakes. Indian Pudding (another way).—Line a pio-dish with some good puff paste, and put an edging of tho same round the rim. Place a layer of sliced apples at tho bottom, on the pa.ste, add a salt-spoonful of grated nutmeg, and sugar to taste. Next whisk ten eggs, with half a pint of red wine, and at the same timo place three French rolls, cut in slices, to soak in a pint of rich cream ; a.ld this with the eggs to the in<?reflicnts already in the dish, and bake the pudding from thirty to forty minutes. Probable cost, 38. 6d. Sufficient for aeven or eight persons. Indian Pudding, Baked.—Stir a quait of boiling milk into a pint of Indian corn uieal. Dissolve tour oiuices of butter by heating it ])efore the tiro, mix it first with a pint ol molasses, and then, very gradually, with th<; meal. Flavour witli nutmeg and grated lemon- rind or ciniuimon, and, as soon as the mixtiue has cooled, add, stirring briskly, six well-beaten eggs. Butter a dish, and Ijake at once. Time, two hours to bake. Probable cost, Is. 4d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Indian Pudding, Cheap.—Take half a pint of meal (let it be yellow—it istlie richest), and a quart of new milk, into wliich put, when boiling, a httle salt, nutmeg, and ginger. Stir it into the milk gradually, and keep beating it briskly all the time. When smooth, and the hoat gone off, beat up an egg with two ounces of pounded sugar, and add it, with two ounces of finely-shred suet, t() the mixture. Bake in a moderate oven. Butter may be used in tho place of suet. Time, two hours to bake. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for four or five persons. Indian Salad.—Cut the meat of a lobster, or of a crab's claws, into pieces, and sHce a couple of cucumbers, with two chUies, a Spanish onion, if liked, and two rennets. The seeds of the fruit should be removed, and the whole seasoned with pepper and salt. Put into the bowl two spoonfuls of viaegar, a little cayenne, and three spoonfuls of the best Lucca- oil. Indian Sauce.-BoU together for five minutes, in a small quantity of stock, a tea- spoonful of anchovy sauce, a bit of glaze the size of a walnut, a table-spoonful of curry- paste, and a pinch of cayenne. lilix with the above half a pint of tomato pulp, boil up, and serve. Indian Trifle.—Mix six ounces of rice flour with cold milk enough to make a thickish paste. Put a.quart of new milk into a sauce- pan with the rind of a small lemon, and four ounces of sugar to sweeten. Simmer gently, to extract the lemon flavour (do this over a slow fire, and remove the rind as soon as the flavour is gained); add the rice and stir till the mixture leaves the sides of the pan. A few drops of the essence of ratafia or vanilla is a great improve- ment. If for a glass dish, let the trifle cool a little before turning out, and when quite firm and cold, cut out some of the rice, and introduce boiled custard into the space. This has a very good effect, when some fancy de^^co is 8ho;^-n. Cut an ounce of sweet almonds (blanched) into spikes, and stick them thickly over the top. Garnish the dish with any preserved fruit or pieces of fruit jelly of a rich bright colour. Time, a quarter of an hour to twenty minutes to simmer milk, a few minutes to boil the rice. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for ono trifle. Indian Veal CoUops.—Mix a small cupful of grated bread-crumbs with a dcssi^rt- spoonful, or rather more, of curry-powder, l^opper, and salt. Cut two pounds of veal from the fillet, and make collops of a round shape,IRl ( 329 ) about three inches across. Boat them well, and smear them with the yolk of egg. Cover the collops with the bread-crmnba and cui-ry-powder. They should be thickly incrusted with crumbs, and will require to be again saturated with the ecrg.yolk. Dip them into it this time, and powder well Avith the bread-crumbs. Fry in plenty of butter, and make a sauce with more butter, a little curryrpowder, and some good gr&vj. Thicken with flour, and add the juice (strained) of a lemon. Boil, and serve round the collops. Time, twenty minutes to fry. Probable cost, 3s. Sufficient for an entree. Ingoldsby Christmas Pudding.— Take of stoned raisins, well-washed cmrants, and finely-shred suet, each one pound; of flour and stale grated bread-crumbs, mixed, one pound; and one pound of sifted sugar. Put these ingredients into a large bowl with a quarter of an oimce each of candied peel, cut into bits, and mixed spice, the grated rind of a lemon, and a small nutmeg. Moisten with eight eggs, strained and well beaten, and two glasses of brandy or rum. This quantity will make two good-sized puddings, enough for six persons. Time, six hours and a half for the whole quantity, ioxix hours for half. Probable cost, 3s. 4d., exclusive of the brandy. Inky-pinky.—Cut slices of under-done roast beef about half an inch thick, and remove the skin and gristle. Boil these trimmings for two hours with the bones, chopped small, until a strong gravy is obtained. Add it to what- ever may have been left from the roasting of the previous day, and strain into a clean stew- pan, in which simmer the slices of meat, cold boiled carrot, and an onion cut into quarters. Do not allow it to boil, or the meat will be tough. Add pepper and salt, and a little vinegar or ketchup, thicken the gravy with flour, and serve very hot with sippets of toasted bread. Time to simmer, twenty minutes. Institution Cup (an American drink).— Cut an orange into slices, pour over these a glass of brandy, and add a pint of champagne, a gill each of strawberry and pine-apple syrup, and a tumbler of ice in shaves. These ingre- dients should be well mixed and strained into tumblers. Invalid's Cutlet.—Get a cutlet from the loin or neck of weU-fed, fat mutton, but cut away aU the fat, and leave nothing but the lean, which put into a stewpan, with just enough water to cover it and a very little salt. Stew gently, and add a small quantity of celery cut into thin shavings. Carefully skim oS any fat that may appear on the top, and when it has stewed about two hours without boiling, the meat will be easy of digestion. Add pepper and salt to taste. Time to stew celery, thirty to thirty-five minutes. Invalid's Lemonade.—Put about haHof a sliced lemon, pared and divested of the inner skin or pith, with the parings, and an ounce or two of lump sugar, into a jug, pour boUing water over these ingredients, and cover closely. In two hours strain for use. To the above quantity of lemon add a pint of water, which will make a refreshing lemonade. Probable cost, 2d. Sufficient for a pint. Invalid's Soup.—Split a calf's foot, and cut a pound of good, lean, juicy beef and a pound of lean mutton into small pieces. Put them, together with half a gallon of water, into an earthenware jar, and bake in a slow oven from six to seven hours, adding another quart of water, a small tea-spoonful of whole allspice, and a leaf or two of sage, when the mixture has been stewing three or four hours. "When the soup is reduced to half the quantity, strain through a sieve, and, when cold and a jelly, remove the fat. This soup may be taken cold, or warmed up with a little vermicelli, and pepper and salt to taste. Probable cost, 2s. Id. Sufficient for three pints. Irish Black Pudding.—This pudding is excellent cut into thick slices when cold, and broUed over a clear fire, or warmed in an oven. If so served up it should only be boiled an hour, but will require longer time if eaten hot. To a pound of good beef suet, chopped very fine, half a poimd of bread-crumbs, and the same of well- washed currants, add four ounces of pounded sweet almonds, a tea-spoonful of cinnamon, nut- meg, and cloves, in powder, some candied peel, and enough loaf sugar to sweeten. Separate the yolks from the whites of four eggs, beat the yolks, and moisten the above ingredients with them stirred into the mixture with a pint of cream and a glass of brandy. Lastly, put in the frothed whites of two eggs and boU in a cloth. Sufficient for five or six persons. Irish Brade Breachd.—To a quartern of flour rub in lightly a quarter of a pound of butter, melted. Mix it in an earthenware pan to a dough, with three table-spoonfuls of fresh yeast, and warm water enough to make tho dough firm, then put it in a wann place, covered with a cloth, to rise, and, when sufficiently risen, add the following ingredients:—Of currants, well washed and dried, stoned raisins, and finely- powdered sugar, each a quarter of a pound; some candied peel, cut into strips, half a large nutmeg, grated, and some blanched sweet al- monds, chopped. Make into loaves and bake. Irish Brade Breachd (another way).— Get dough from the baker, and let it rise in a covered pan before the fire, then beat the butter to a cream, and warm the milk, about a quarter of a pint, slightly, add it with the other ingredients, and knead well for a few minutes. Cake-tins should be buttered, and only half filled. Put them in a Avarm place to rise before being put into the oven. Time, from an hour and tluree-quarters to two hours. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Sufficient for a loaf. Irish Cake.—Put a pound of good fresh butter into a large bowl, and turn it back to a cream with the hand. When well turned, beat into it three-quarters of a pound of dried sugar, finely sifted and made hot before the fire. Separate tho yolks from the whites of nine eggs, and, when well beaten, stir in the yolks, keeping the hand moved round in the same direction for about twenty minutes, when dredge in by degrees a pound and a quarter of dry flour mixing well, as before, for another 'twcn'y( 330 ) IBI IRI minutos. Add four ounces of blanched almondjs, sliced, the same of candied peel, one pound or more of well-washed and di-ied currants, a glass of brandy, and, lastly, stir in gently tlio wliites of the eggs whisked to a i'mn froth. Bake in a hot oven and in a round buttered tin. Time, an hour and a half to two hours. Probable cost, 38. lOd. Sufhciont for two cakes. Irish Griddle Cake.—To every three ounds of Hour allow a tcsa-spoonful of car- onate of soda and a little salt. Mix the carbonate of soda with some sweet buttermilk —about three brcakfast-cupfuls. Make it into a stiff paste. Roll it until smooth, and turn it upon the griddle often to prevent burning. Time, according to size. Irish Luncheon Cakes. — Mix two pounds of di-ied Hour with a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar and a tea-spoonful of salt. Rub into the flour a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, and add half a pound of clean currants, an ounce of candied peel, and a tea- spoonful of carbonate of soda. Mix these ingredients with the whites of four eggs •whisked to a stiff froth, and as much buttermilk as will make the dough of a moderate firmness. Half fill buttered tins, and bake in a tolerably quick oven to a light bro-svn. Time, one hour to bake. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for two cakes. Irish Moss.—One ounce of selected Irish moss should be well washed, and then soaked in a quarter of a pint of cold water for three or four hours. Add a pint of cold milk or milk and water, boil for a few minutes, strain through fine muslin, and set aside to cool. Irish Moss may be flavoured with cinnamon, sugar, and lemon, or vaniUa. It wiU set a firm jelly. It is not much used, gelatine being so cheap, and less troublesome. Irish Pancakes.—Beat eight eggs, sepa- rating the yolks from the whites. Warm a pint of cream in a rather large stewpan, over a slow fire; strain, and stir the beaten yolks to the cream and three ounces of butter, previously melted; add two ounces of poimded sugar, and dredge in six ounces of flour. When mixed quite smooth, stir into the batter grated nutmeg and lemon-peel, with the frothed whites of four eggs. Fry in butter. Pour only enough batter in the pan to make a thin pancake, and, when done, serve the pancakes hot, piled one on another, in a hot dish. Time, about five minutes to fry. Probable cost, 28. 6d. Suffi- cient for five or six persons. Irish Pancakes (another way).—Mix a pint of cream with half a dozen fresh eggs, beaten and strained. Add a glass of sherry, two or three oimccs of butter, melted, some pounded cinnamon, andnutmeg, grated, a quarter of a pound of white sugar, and flour sufficient to make an ordinary batter. Rub butter over a clean pan, and, when the batter is quite smooth, drop in the quantity to make a thin pancake. Powder the pancakes well with sugar, and serve them piled one on the other, or fold them with a layer of apricot marma- lade between. A cut lemon is the usual ac- companiment. Time, about five minutes. Irish Puffs.—Make a light batter with a tabie-Hpoonl'ul of flour, half a tea-spoonful of salt, and five Wbll-beaten yolks of eggs. Add nearly an ounce of melted butter, and stir into tlie batter half a pint of cream and tlxe frothed wliites of the eggs. Beat the batter before adding the cream, &c., for nearly fifteen minutes. Bake in butteri^d cups. Time, about fifteen minutes to bake. Probable cost, Is. 3d. Sufficient for six cups. Irish Rock.—A sweet for dessert, com- posed of almonds, sugar, and butter pounded together, and moulded into an egg-like sliape. It has a very pretty appearance when arranged to contrast with green sweetmeats and bright- coloured preserved fruits. Wash the salt from half a pound of butter, and beat into it a quarter of a pound of finely-powdered sugar; miSH EOCK. blanch a pound of sweet almonds and an ounce of bitter. Pound these in a mortar, reserving enough of the sweet almonds to spike for ornamenting the dish when sent to table; add the butter and sugar, with about a quarter of a glass of brandy, and pound until smooth and white, when, after having become firm, it may be shaped with a couple of spoons. It should be placed high on a glass dish with a decoration of green sweetmeats, the spiked almonds, and a sprig of myrtle. Gramish with any green fruits or sweetmeats. Irish Rolls.—Put a tea-spoonful of salt and half a tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda to two pounds of flour, sweetened with about two tea-spoonfuls of finely-powdered sugar. Beat the whites of a couple of eggs to a froth, and make a dough with them, adding as much good sour buttermilk as will make an ordinary paste. Shape into cakes or rolls at once, and bake from fifteen to twenty minutes, according to size. Sour milk may be used, but butter- milk wiU make the roUs richer. Probable cost, Id. each. Irish Salmon Pickle.—Trim any part of salmon left from dinner, or boil a nice hand- some piece. Lay it in a deep dish, and, when cold, pour over it the following pickle, also cold. If closelj' covered and well basted with the pickle tlie salmon will keep many days:— BoU together in half a pint of vinegar, a gillIBI ISI (331 ) of water, a gill of white wine, some sliced horseradish, two blades of mace, two bay- leaves, whole pepper, allspice, and a little salt. Let it get cold, and pour it over the fish. Time, ten minutes to boil. Irish Sandwiches—Cut the meat in very thin slices from partridges, grouse, or any game that has been roasted, and shred some celery. Lay the meat on delicately thin fresh toast—it it should be crisp, and not tough—strew celery over, and season well with Tartar sauce. Serve in squares, and on a napkin. Irish Seed Cake.— Beat nine eggs, yolks and whites, until they are light, and turn eight oimces of fresh butter to a cream, adding by degrees a little rose-water until a quarter of a pint has been used. Mix with the butter a pound of finely-powdered sugar, and add the beaten eggs. Beat the mixture, and dredge into it three-quarters of a pound of well-dried flour and nearly a quarter of a pound of rice flour. Flavour with essence of any kind Hked, and scatter in an ounce of caraway-seeds and some pounded bitter almonds. Bake in a quick oven. The baking-tin should be lined with paper, and both tin and paper must be well buttered. Time, an hour and a half to bake. Probable cost, 2s. 4d. Irish Soup, or Balnamoon Skink.— In many parts of Ireland a good joint of meat is a thing to be wished for, but not to be obtained at short notice. Poultry is always to be had in plenty, and very cheap, hence, on an emergency, two or three fowls may be expe- ditiously put into a pot to boil until their juices are thoroughly extracted and the broth is rich and good. One or more of the fowls, if to be served separate, may be trussed as for boiling, and removed as soon as done, but they are best cut up when intended only for soup. When well boiled, strain the soup through a colander into a clean saucepan. Season with salt, pepper, sweet herbs, chives, and chopped young onions. Add celery, lettuce, and, if in season, a few green peas. Stew until the vegetables are tender. A liasion of two beaten eggs and a cup of cream will greatly improve the soup. The trussed fowl is sometimes served in the tureen with the soup. When sent to table separately, thicken some of the broth, and pour it over the fowl. Irish Stew.—Take from two to three pounds of chops from the best end of a neck of mutton, and pare away nearly all the fat, for an Irish Stew should not be greasy. If liked a portion of the breast may be cut into squares and used, but a neck of mutton is the best joint for the purpose. Take as many potatoes as will amount after peeling to twice the weight of the meat. Slice them, and slice also eight large onions. Put a layer of mixed potatoes and onions at the bottom of a stowpan. Place the meat on this and season it plentifully with pepper and slightly with salt. Pack the ingre- dients closely, and cover the meat with another layer of potato and onion. Pour in as much water or stock as will moisten the topmost layer, cover the stewpan tightly, and let its contents simmer gently for three hours. Be careful not to remove the lid, as this will let out the flavour. Irish Stew (another way).—Put some neat chops, cut from the neck of mutton, into a stew- pan; they should be trimmed, and the bones shortened a little. Braise them for half an hour, and season with pepper, salt, and a few chopped mushrooms. Butter a mould, and thickly line it with mashed potatoes ; lay in the chops, and bake. When done, turn out on a hot dish, and pour in some good gravy through an ojjening on the top. Time, about half an hour to bake. Two dozen potatoes ynR be qai^e sufficient for this dish. Irish Stew, Australian {see Australian Irish Stew). Irish Stew, Kidney {see Kidney Irish Stew). Irish Tripe.—Procure the tripe quite fresh, cut it neatly into pieces two inches broad and four inches long, stew them for an hour in milk and water and a little salt; add onions, and boU them until tender. Put the tripe on a dish, thicken some of the sauce with flour and butter, and mix in a little mustard and the j onions, which should be first drained and beaten through a sieve. Make the sauce hot, and serve it poured over the tripe. If liked, a little lemon- juice may be added. Time, an hour to stew tripe alone; about three-quarters of an hour with onions. Probable cost, 8d. per pound. Irish Usquebagh Cordial.—Stone a pound of the best blue raisins, and rub off the rind of a Seville orange on limips of sugar. Bruise the raisins in a mortar, with a quarter of an ounce each of cloves and cardamoms and a grated nutmeg. Put these ingredients into a jar, and pour over them half a gallon of French brandy or flavourless whiskj"^; add the sugar and half a pound of sugar candy (brown), also a little colouring matter, tincture of safEron or spinach-juice. Stir or shake the jar every day. Time to infuse, two weeks. Irish "Walnut Ketchup.—Extract the inner white part of some green walnuts, and, after pounding them thoroughly, strain oft' the juice to make it clear, let it stand for twelve hours, and strain again. Add to each pint of juice a large onion, two ounces of horseradish, sliced, half an ounce of shallots, a clove of garlic, half a pint of vinegar, and half a pound of anchovies. These ingredients being well mixed, boil for two hours. When cold, strain the liquor until quite clear, then add to each pint of the ketchup half an ounce of spice (mace, cloves, nutmeg, and whole black pepper in equal quantities), two wine-glassfuls of port, and a quarter of a glass of soy. BoU again for three-quarters of an hour, but do not strain the liquor, as the spices must be distributed in the several bottles in which it is placed. The saucepan must always be kept closely covered, or the delicious aromatic flavour will evaporate. Pour the ketchup into a jar, and cover till cold, when it can be poured into bottles, but the greatest attention must be paid to their being clean and dry. Seal the corks. Probable cost, Is. per pint. Isinglass and Gelatine Jelly.—When .lelly IS to be made for the table, isinglass and golatme are frequently used instead of calf's-foot(m) ISI ISI stock, and possoss the advantage of being made much raoro imsily aud (luickly. From iaiiigluHH especially, iiiaiiy wholosoino aud agreoablo dishoa may bo niado. It is, however, difficult to give tlio exact proportions to bo used, as isiiiglasH dilfers so much in tpiality. The host may be known by its dull-looking, hard skin, and by its requu-ing fully half an hour's boiling to dis- solve it. The commoner kinds dissolve very quickly, and may be known by their white, fine appearance. When good isinglass is used one ounce will stiii'on a pint and a half of jelly. Simmer tlio isinglass, until it is thoroughly dissolved, in a pint of water. Just before it is tiikon from the fire, add a tea-spoonful of strained lemon-juice, a table-spoonful of cold water, and a lump of sugar. Lot all boil together two or three nainutes, and remove the scum care- fully as it rises. Strain through a jelly-bag, add wine, lemon-juice, sugar, and flavouring accord- ing to taste, and pour into a damp mould. Let the jelly remain in a cool place until it is finn. Gelatine is more frequently employed than isin- glass. Allow an ounce of gelatine f a pint of liquid. In cold weather, or when using small moulds, more liquid may be taken. Soak the gelatine for an hour, pour boiling liquid upon it, and stir it over the fire until dissolved. Clarify with white of egg. {See Calf's Foot Jelly.) Isinglass Jelly , Constantia.—Dissolve an ounce of thebest isinglass in a pint of water. Put to it a quarter of a pound of good loaf sugar, and part of the rind of a Seville orange, pared thin so as to leave none of the white skin. Simmer over a slow fire, add nearly a pint of Constantia, strain through a muslin, doubled three or four times, and mould when cool, care- fully keeping back any sediment. As a general rule moulds should be soaked in water some two or three hours before they are used. Time, about fifteen minutes to sinmaer. Probable cost. Is. 4d., exclusive of wine. Sufficient for two moulds. Isinglass Jelly, Cranberry.—Mix a quart of cranberry-juice with a pint of isinglass jelly and half a pound of loaf sugar, boil it for five minutes, and, after straining, pour into a mould. Instead of isinglass, this jeUy is some- times made with ground rice as follows: —Strain the. juice of a quart of cranberries after they have been boiled; mix with it slowly enough ground rice to thicken it to the consistency of jelly; now boil it, taking care that the rice does not adhere to the bottom of the pan, add sugar to taste, pour iuto a mould, and, when cold, turn out on a glass dish, with a garnish of Devonshire cream. Probable cost of isinglass. Is. per ounce; ground rice, 3d. to 4d. per pound. Isinglass Jelly, Currant and Rasp- berry.—Bruise in a jar two pounds of red and one pound of white currants with a pint of red raspberries; place the jar in boiling water to extract the juice. BoU three-quarters of a pmt of water, two oimces of isinglass, and a pound of loaf sugar together, allow both the fruit juice, when strained, and the sweetened ising;lasH to cool, then mix equal quantities, pour into shapes and place the jelly in ice. Probable cost of isinglass, Is. per ounce. Isinglass Jelly, Fruit [see Fruit Isin- glass Jelly). Isinglass Jelly, Grape («« Ompe Iain. glass .lolly). Isinglass Jelly (Invalid Cookkuy).~A pleasant and nourishing jolly is made by boiling isinglass sliavings and a portion of the brown crust of a loaf soasoncid with Jamaica peppers. To an ounce of the shavings and a quart of boiling water, add a tea-sjjoonful of Jamaica, eppors, and the broad-crust, which should bo rown, but not black. lioil until it has wasted a pint. This jolly will remain good for some time. A spoonful may be put into soup, tea, or any other beverage. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Isinglass Jelly, Lemon.—Peel the rind of two lemons, without any of the white inner skin, and put it into an ounce and a half of isinglass clarified in a pint of water, and sweetened according to taste—say with half a pound of loaf sugar. Strain the juice of four large lemons, and pour it gently into the isinglass when cool. Pour it at once (the lemon-rind must be taken out, but the liquid need not be strained) into small moulds, or into one large one, and cover with ice broken small. This jeUy may be made from calFs- foot stock. Put to each pint the juice of three lemons. Time, an hour to prepare. Probable cost, 2s. The above ingredients are sufficient for a pint and a half mould. Isinglass Jelly, Lemon (another way). —See Lemon Isinglass JeUy. Isinglass JeUy, Orange.—To the juice of eight fine sweet oranges and four Seville, well strained, add an ounce and a half of isin- glass dissolved in boiling water, sweeten with six ounces of pounded loaf sugar, and stir it gently over the fire, but do not let it boil. Pour the jelly into earthenware moulds when nearly cold, the moulds having been previously fiUed with cold water. Probable cost, 3s. Isinglass Jelly, Orange (another way). —See Orange Isinglass JeUy. Isinglass Jelly, Strawberry.-Take a quart of fine ripe scarlet strawberries, and pour over them a pint of water that has boiled for twenty minutes with three-quarters of a pound of loaf sugar. The next day, drain ofi! thje syrup from the strawberries without bruising them, and, to increase the fruity flavour, add a little lemon-juice and half a pint of red currant juice. Clarify two ounces and a half of isin- glass in a pint of water, and let it stand till nearly cold, then mix it with the fruit-juice and pour into moulds. It is desirable to place the moulds in ice. Probable cost, 2s. lOd., exclusive of fruit. Isinglass, To Clarify.—Allow one quart of fresh water, the beaten white of an egg, and two table-spoonfuls of lemon-juice to each quarter of a pound of isinglass; mix these ingre- dients thoroughly, and put them into a sauce- pan; take care that the isinglass does noLbum at thp bottom of the pan, and remove the scum as it rises. Strain, and put aside for use. The isin- gliiss shoidd be quite clear. A number of excel- lent jollies may be made by extracting the juice from fresh fruit and mixing with it a httle isinglass, without huilintr. The flavour and colour are both better than when the juice laITA I8L ( 833 ) "boiled. The best isinglass will require half an hour's gentle boiling to dissolve it. Isle of WigM Cracknels—Beat weU the yolks of foui- eggs with two table-spoonfuls of orange-flower water, add the beat part of a small nutmeg and a Uttle salt to about a pound and three-quai-ters of fine flour, and make it into a stiff paste with the egg. Squeeze out aU the milk from one pound of fresh butter, which roll into the paste, and form into cracknels. Throw these into fast-boiling water, and when done enough (this may be known when they float to the surface) plunge them into cold water to harden. Bake on tins as soon as dry. Pro- bable cost, 2s. 6d. Italian Cream.—Put a pint of cream aiul milk, in equal parts, into a saucepan, with loaf sugar according to taste, and the rind of a lemon, reserving the juice. Keep it boiling slowly imtil the lemon has suffi«iently flavoixred, then strain it into a bowl, in order to mix freely the yolks of four eggs already weU beaten. Pour this mixture into a jug, and set the jug in boiling water. Take care ISiat the contents do not boil; stir them till they become thick, when remove the cream from the fire, and when cool stir into it the lemon-juice and,an ounce of dissolved isinglass. The cream must now be weU whipped, and, if it is to be served in glasses, drained on a sieve, but if for a mould fill the mould with the cream when whipped, and set it in a cold place (on ice if possible) to set. Turn the cream out on a glass dish, and ornament with crystallised or preserved fi'uits. Time, from five to eight minutes to stir in the jug. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Suffi- cient for a pint and a half. Italian Cream (another way).—Stir into a pint of thick cream the rinds of two lemons rubbed off on lumps of sugar, and as much more pounded loaf sugar as wiU sweeten. Whisk up the cream with the juice of one lemon, strain an ounce or more of dissolved isinglass to it, and beat weU. together. Flavour with noyau or curacjoa, and fiill a mould. Freeze, turn out, and garnish with any kind of sweet- meats or preserved fruits. Time, haK an hour. Probable cost 2s. 9d., exclusive of liqiiors. Sufficient for a pint and a half mould. Italian Cream (another way).—See Cream, Italian. Italian Jelly.—This is made with any fruit jelly. Take an earthenware mould which has previously lain in cold water for two or three hours, fill it about half-way up with jelly. When it is quite firm, place upon it a thick layer of stiff blancmange, cut to the size of the mould. Now fill up with another fruit jelly nearly cold. Italian Macaroni Soup.—Drop three oimces of macaroni into boiling water, and keep it boiling for twenty minutes. Drain, and cut it into inch lengths, or it may be broken before being put into the water. Have ready two quarts of clear gravy soup, boiling hot, into which throw the macaroni, and simmer for about ten minutes. Servo with grated Par- mesan in a dish. Probable cost. Is. to Is. 4d. per pound. Sufficient for eight persons. Italian Macaroons.—Blanch and pound eight ounces of sweet almonds (expose them to the air for a day or two before they are required to be pounded) with a little orange-flower water, one pound of sifted sugar, and the frothed whites of three eggs. Smooth the ingredients by.rubbing them well together, and add very gradually the frothed whites. When the paste looKs soft and smooth, drop it, in quan- tities about the size of a walnut, through a funnel on to some wafer-paper. Bake on the ordinary plate, in a rather slow oven, to a pale colour. A strip or two of almond should be stuck on the top of each macaroon before baking. Time, fifteen to twenty minutes to bake. Probable cost. Is. 8d. per pound. Italian Meringues.—Boil a pound of the finest lump sugar in a pint of water. When it has boiled long enough to whiten and become flaky as it di'ops from the spoon, scrape from the sides of the pan any sugar that maj- be adhering, and stir in six whites of eggs, which have been whisked to the stiffest possible froth; do this very gradually and slowly, at the same time mixing the mass as briskly as possible to make it smooth. Continue to stir until the mixture is firm enough to retain the shape of a tea-spoon, in which it is now to be moulded. Slip the meringues quickly off on paper, and harden in a gentle oven, that they may retain their delicate whiteness. Almonds are sometimes pounded, and mixed witli the eggs apd sugar. These are very superior to the plain meringues, but they will require more care in baking, and they will take a longer time ; they should be crisp, and only lightly browned. Blanch and poxmd the almonds. Time, twenty to thirty minutes. Probable cost. Is. for this quantity. Italian Pastes.—Italy is famous for its various lands of paste, the best being made from the small Sicilian wheat, which is harder, and contains more albumen than our northcin wheats. Macaroni, lasagni, vermiceUi, are all of tbe same paste, as are stars, rings, and other shapes. The Genoese paste is made of the finest and whitest flour, but every city has its paste manufactory. The Neapolitan is of slightly coarser flour, but when fresh is often preferred by cooks, as it is more speedily dressed. The price of macaroni is now much less than formerly, the Neapolitan being only sixpence per pound, and Genoese one shilling per pound. There is a French paste manu- factory at Grenoble, but the article it turns out is of inferior quality. In Italy, pastes of aU kinds are dressed in fowl or veal stock for the better tables, and in beef or other bouillon for the ordinary ones. Parmesan and Gruyere cheese accompany the dish, but in England, on account of the expense, home products, such as Cheshire and Derbyshire, may be substituted. Genoa is famous for its ravioli soup, one of the best macaroni soups sent to table. Italian Pie.—Cut thin slices of veal from the fiUet, and prepare a careful seasoning of thyme, parsley, a couple of sage-leaves, pepper (white and cayenne), and salt. Cover theITA ( 334 ) bottom of the pio-dish with the moat, strow tho Boasoning over, and lay thin alicos of ham m-oviously dressed, upon tho top. Distribute torcomoat-bftlls throughout, and fill up the dish with veal, ham, forcemeat-balls, and the yolks of hard-boiled eggs. Pour in half a pint of nch white stock before baking, and a large cup of creiim when tho pie is ready for the table. Cover the dish with a puff paste, put an orna- ment in the centre, which can be removed to put in the cream, and bake in a quick oven. Two pounds of veal and five ounces of ham will make a good pie. Time, an hour and a half to bake. The above quantities are sufficient for five or six persons. Italian Polenta—This is an Italian and American dish, made from Indian corn-flour in America and Italy, but in England semolina is used for the purpose. Four ounces of this seed ■svill thicken a quart of milk; the semoHna is stirred into it when the milk is on the point of boiling, and simmered for about ten minutes after. Throw the polenta into a dish to get cold ; cut it into slices, powder it thickly with grated Parmesan, moisten it with oil or clarified butter, and bake. Serve quite hot, with more cheese on a separate dish. Time, half an hour to bake. Probable cost, exclusive of cheese, 5d. Italian Polpetti.—Grate two oimces of Parmesan cheese, and mince finely half a pound of any cooked meat without fat; put these ingre- dients, together with a sUce of ham or tongue, into a stewpan; add a quarter of a pint of Italian sauce and two small tea-spoonfuls of piquant sauce. Stir over the fire until well heated throughout, then take out the polpetti on a marble slab or large flat dish, spread the paste (for such it wiU be) evenly to about a quarter of an inch thick, and let it get cold, when it is to be cut into small cakes with a tin cutter. These are now to be fried, egged, and bread- crumbed in boiling lard. Use up the fragments of paste, press them together, and cut into cakes as before. Time, ten minutes to fry. Italian Pork Cheese.—Season rather highly with salt, pepper, and herbs (sage, thyme, parsley, and sweet basU), about a pound of lean pork cut into small bits. Chop finely a pound and a half of the inside fat of the pig, and mix and press the ingredients together. Fill a shallow baking-tin, make the top quite smooth, and bake slowly in a very quiet oven. Serve cold in sKces. Time, an hour or more. Probable cost, 2s. Italian Potage (brown soup).—Take any young vegetables in season—turnips, carrots, celery, leeks, onions, &c. Slice three or four onions, and fry them in butter with two turnips, two carrots cut in ribbon-Kke strips, a head of celery, and the white part of a leek in inch pieces. Stew gently in the butter, letting them colour slightly. Add good rich veal gravy, salt to taste, and serve, when the vege- tables are tender, on grilled crusts, previously moistened with a little of the gravy. Asparagus tops, green peas, and young lettuces improve this potage. Time, fry untU. the vegetables are tender. Italian Pudding. - Souk throe sliced I'lynch rolls in u pint of cream which lias \mm boiled and sweetened with loaf sugar, lioat up eight eggs, and add thorn to the soaked rolls when cool. Line a weU-buttered dinh with puft' paste, the bottom of which fill with sliced apples, leaving enough of the dish empty to hold the cream. Strew sugar and some shced candied peel on the top of the apples add a glass of red wine, and, lastly, the cream' Edge the dish with some of the puff paste, and bake in a rather quick oven. Time, about half an hour. Probable cost, 3s. Sufficient for five or six persons. Italian Pudding, BoHed.—Get two stale rolls, grate the crumb into a pint of milk, and boil it very carefully for ten minutes. Throw it into a basin to cool. Meanwhile, beat the yolks of three eggs, add them, with nearly half a pound of pounded sugar, a flavour- ing of vanilla, a few currants or Makga raising, and, lastly, the whites of the eggs whisked to a firm froth. This pudding should be steamed. Pour the mixture into a well-buttered basin, tie it down, and set it in a saucepan with boihng water reaching to half the height of the basin. Keep it boiling an hour, and serve with wine, brandy, or rum sauce poured over it. Pro- bable cost, Is. 4d. Sufficient for four or five persons. ItaUan Pyramid.—Cut from good pufi paste, rolled out rather thick, as many circular pieces as will be required for the desired height of the pyramid. Tin cutters are best for the purpose, but ahnost any article of a circular form may be substituted for the tin cutter. The sizes, the largest of which is the base, decrease from it, gradually tapering to the top. Pile the pieces one on the other after they are baked, placing round the edges preserve, marmalade, or jelly of any kind, but they must be baked separately on buttered tins over which is laid a buttered paper. The paste should be made in the pro- portion of a pound of butter to a pound of flour, and nearly half a pint of water. Time, fifteen to twenty-five minutes to bake. Italian Roll.—Mix together half a pound of fine flour and from four to five ounces of sifted sugar. Put into a clean saucepan half a pint of new milk and a quarter of a pound of fresh butter; bring it to the boiling point, and stir in gradually the flour and sugar. Beat well four fresh eggs, add them with the grated rind of a lemon, stirring imtil the mixture is thick like dough. Lay a piece of well-greased paper on a baking-sheet, spread the mixture on this about a quarter of an inch thick. Bake till half done in the oven, spread jam on the paste, and bake again. Serve cold, whole or in slices of nearly an inch thick. Time, twenty to twenty-five minutes 'to bake. Probable cost, Is. 2d., exclusive of jam. Italian Husks.—Slice a stale Savoy biscuit and divide the shoes into two pieces, which bake in a slow oven imtil they are crisp and hard. Let them cool, and put them in a drj' place, and in a close tin canister, to preserve their crispnesa. They should be a nice brown( 335 ) when taked. Probable cost. 3d. per dozen. Three cakes arc enough for one dozen rusks. Italian Salad.—ItitUan salads comprise every variety of vegetables, cooked or raw, and meat or fish, though it must not be supposed that the difierent ingredients are heaped to- gether without due regai-d to harmony. We give here one of the best salads:—Slice a couple of cold potatoes and the half of a beetroot, and mix them with some boiled celery and brussels sprouts. Season with vinegar or Tartar sauce. Add any cold meat in small pieces, and serve as soon as mixed. Place the meat lightly in the bowl, and throw the salad mixture over. Crown the whole with stoned olives. Italian Salad (another way).—Pile the white meat of a chicken, picked from a cold one roasted, boiled, or fricasseed, in the centre of a dish, and shred a little lean ham to distri- bute equally amongst it. Veal also may be used cut in very thin slices about the size of a BhiUing. Siirround the meat with a wall of young crisp lettuces, small cress, or any salad vegetables in season. BoH some eggs hard, remove the yolks, and cut the whites into thin rings, which arrange in chains over the top. Pour over the centre any salad sauce, in which cream should predominate, and serve at once, that the salad may not get sodden. Italian Sandwiches,—Beat up the yolk of an egg with nearly a quarter of a ■pint of cold water, and make with it into a stift paste a quarter of a pound of baked flo\ir, into which two ounces of good butter have been rubbed, an ounce and a half of sifted sugar, and as much cinnamon as will lie on a shilling. Put this paste on a board and roU it out very thin (it should net be quite a quarter of an inch), divide it into strips of an inch in width, and from three to four inches in length. These strips must be first hardened. Put them in a cool, well-ventilated place. In the rueantime prepare the following mixture:—Beat the whites of three eggs to a froth, with two ounces of powdered loaf sugar. Blanch and pound two ounces of sweet and twelve bitter almonds, mix them with the egg-froth imtil it is a soft smooth paste, when spread half the strips of paste with the mixture, and cover with the other half. Bake a pale brown. Time, four or five hours to harden, sixteen to eighteen minutes to bake. Probable cost. Is. 4d. Italian Sauce.—Fry six mushrooms and two shallots, finely minced, in an oimce of butter; when brown add a quarter of a pint of good stock, and half a pint of Spanish sauce. When the latter is not at hand, take haK a pint of stock, and a glass of champagne or other light wine. Probable cost, exclusive of wine, Is. Time to simmer, after the stock is added, twenty minutes. The above ingredients are sufficient to fill a sauce tureen. Italian Sauce for Boiled Beef {see Beef, Boiled, Italian Sauce for). Italian Sauce (Rouge ct Blanche).— Put the following ingredients into a stewpan:— Two spoonfuls of chopped mushrooms, one of parsley, half a shallot, the same of bay-leaf; add pepper and salt to taste. Stew them gently, with just enough espagnole sauce to moisten them, and thin to a proper consistency with good strong broth. Strain for use. For sauce blanche, moisten with veloute in the place of espagnole. Italian Sauce, White (another way).— Chop thi-ce shallots, a bit of garlic as big as a pea, and as many button-mushrooms as will fill a table-spoon twice. Put them with a breakfast- cupful of stock into a stewpan, add a large slice of ham, which should be minced, and simmer over a slow fire. In about half an hour add a quarter of a pint of bechamel; boil, and strain. Season with salt, half a tea-spoonful of sugar, the same of vinegar, and a squeeze of lemon- juice. The probable cost will be about lOd. Sufficient for a dish. Italian Steak.—Take two or three pounds of steak from the rump or fillet—let it be quite an inch and a half in thickness. Brown it in a stewpan with two or three ounces of butter, turning it frequently over a quick fire. When brown alike on both sides, remove the steak to a baking-pan, with a tight-fitting lid (earthen- ware pans are always used for this purpose on the Continent), and fry two medium-sized onions, sliced, a shaUot, minced, and a bunch of parsley in the same butter. Throw this over the steak in the pan. Add two large wine- glassfuls of port, and two breakfast-cupfuls of stock, with a root of celery cut into pieces, two pickled gherkins, four or five cloves, a pinch of cayenne pepper, and salt to taste. Cover down the lid tight, that no steam may escape, and let it bake in the oven nearly an ho\ir and a half, when put in a turnip and a carrot, whole, and close as before. If the roots are young they will be done in half an hour. Cut them into dice, and lay them over the top of the steak, which should be placed on a hot dish. Send to table with the gravy strained over. Probable cost. Is. 4d. per pound. Italian Sweetmeat.—Dissolve a pound and a quarter of loaf sugar in half a pint of water. Boil it for fifteen minutes, adding when clear half a wine-glassful of orange-flower water. Take out a quarter of a pint of the syrup to cool. Hold over the boiling sugar a small funnel and drop the stirred yollcs (not beaten) of sixteen eggs gradually through, bo as to fall in balls; these when set must be taken out and drained. Blanch and povmd to a paste twelve ounces of sweet and one ounce of bitter almonds, stir it into the boiling sugar, with two table-spoonfuls of brandy, simmer till the whole thickens, and rub through a sieve. Shred finely a quarter of a pound of pineapple, half the quantity of angelica, and six ounces of mixed candied peel; put these in layers with the almond paste and egg-balls into a buttered pie-dish, and pour over the top the whites of five eggs, beaten to a froth with the cold clarified sugar. Bake in a brisk oven, and turn out carefully. This sweetmeat is better eaten cold. Time to make, an hour. Probable cost, 4s. Ivory Dust Jelly (Invalid Cookery). —Put a pound of ivorv- powder into tlrree quarts of cold water. Place it on a gentleJAM IVO ( 336 ) firo, or in tho oven, and lot it simmer slowly for four or fivo hours, until tho liquid is reduced more than half. Put it aside, and ■when quito cold and stiif, lift off tho joUiod part, being careful to leave tho sodimont untouched, and proceed as rocommendijd for calf 8-foot jelly (see Calf's Foot Jolly). Ivory jelly is excellent for consumptive patients, rime, four or five hours to simmer the ivory dust. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Tho above ingi-edionts are sufficient for a pint and a hall of jelly. Ivory Jelly (Invalid Cookery).—Infuse BIX ounces of ivory powder, and simmer thom in three pints of cold water until the liquid is reduced to half the quantity. Let it get cold to jelly, and remove the sediment. When warmed, add a little cinnamon or a few cloves, the juice and some of the rind of a lemon, and sugar enough to sweeten. Let the jelly dissolve slowly without reducing it further. Strain for use. Jack {see Bottle-jack and Screen). Jam, G-eneral Observations on.— In making jams or preserves, care must be taken first of all that the fruit is gathered on a dry day, and when the morning sun is on the garden. If gathered in damp or foggy weather the jam will certainly become mouldy, and consequently will not be worth the trouble and expense of boiling. The fruit should be free from dust, and any that is unsound should be cast aside. It should be boiled as soon as possible after it is gathered. The best quality of sugar, either white or brown, will be found the cheapest in the end. "White sugar should be shining and close in appearance. Brown sugar bright and gravelly. The inferior sugars throw up so much scum in boiling that they waste as much as they save. The quantity of sugar required depends upon the nature of the fruit, and particulars regarding this will be given with each recipe. As there is no economy in using inferior sugar, there is also no economy in using too little sugar. The only result of endeavouring to save in this way is FBESERVING-PAH. that the jam has to be boiled so much the b^ger, and thus the quantity as reduced; to SHV nothing of the expenditure of fuel. If, on the contraS, too much sugar is used, the flavour of tie W^'ill be lost. In making common jams, tho fruit should bo well boiled before tho sugar is added, and care should be taken that it is not so much thickened tlxat the sugar will not easily dissolve. The fruits which are most Huitiiblo to bo preserved whole in syrup are apricots, apples, cherries, greengages, peiiches, nectarines, plums, and pears. The recipe for each will be found in this work in its proper place. Sugar should never be reduced to powder before it is added to the fruit, or it will give the jam a turbid appearance. The scum should bo carefully removed as it rises. In order to prevent waste it may be strained through fine muslin, and the clear part which runs through returned to the preserving-pan. Wooden spoons should be used for stirring jam. Iron, tin, or pewter ones will spoil the colour. An enamelled saucepan is the best for making jam. If a brass preserving-pan is used, it should be scrupulously clean, bright, and dry. The pan should be raised a few inches above the fire. If placed flat on it the fruit will be in danger of burning. The flavour and colour will be best preserved if the fruit is boiled rapidly. It should be watched constantly and stirred frequently during the process of boiling. Home-made jam, when properly prepared and well preserved, is incomparably superior to that which is offered for sale, and ought not to cost more than half the price. Jams.—Recipes for preparing the following jams will be foimd under their respective head- ings:— Aj>ple Gooseberry, Red Apricot Greengage Apricot, Green Lemon and Rhubakb Barberry Magnum Bonum Blackberry IMixed Fruits Carrot ( Imitation Peach Apricot) Plum Cherry Raspberry Currant, Black Raspberry and Cuk- CuRRANT, Red and rant White Raspberry and Rhu- Damson barb Gooseberry, Green Rhubarb Gooseberry, White Rhubarb and Orange OR Yellow Stiiawberry Jam, Imitation.—Cut off the yeUow rind from a large fresh lemon, being careful not to take any of the white. Mince it as finely as possible, and put it with half a pint of the best treacle, the strained juice of tho lemon, and a well-beaten egg into a saucepan, and boil gently for a few minutes, stirring aU the time. A\Tien cold it is ready for use, and may be employed instead of jam for roly-poly puddings. If put into a jar, and the air excluded, it \\'ill remam good for some time. Probable cost, 4d. Suffi- cient for a pudding large enough for six or eight persons. Jam, Mixed, for Nursery Use.- Take equal weights of any fruit that is in season, such as gooseberries, red or black currants, raspberries, or cherries. Boil them gently for half an hour, tlicn weigh the fruit, and put half a pound of sugar to every pound of pulp and boil twenty minutes longer. When chemeaJAM ( 337 ) JAM arc used they must be boiled twenty minutes alono before the other fruit is added to them. This jiim will not keep more than two or three months. Probable cost, Gd. per pound. Jam, Mixed, Superior—Take equal measures of fruit, black cherries picked and stoned, black currants, and raspberries. Boil the cherries twenty minutes first, then add the currants and raspberries, -vnth a pint and a half of red currant juice to every three pounds of fruit. Boil imtil the fruit is broken, then add one pound of sugar to everj- prut of fruit, and boil gently for half an houi'. Skim carefully, pour the jam into jars, and cover in the usual way. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Jam Omelet.—Beat four eggs, and mix with them a tea-spoonful of moist sugar, a pinch of salt, and a table-spoonful of milk. Make an omelet-pan quite hot—the best way to do this is to put it on the fire with a little fat, and when this bums pour it off, and wipe the pan dry—^put two ounces of fat or oil into the pan, and when it begins to bubble pour in the eggs, &c., and keep stirring them with a spoon until lightly set. Let them remain a minute, until the omelet is browned on one side, then turn it on a hot dish, spread a little jam in the middle, fold the edges over on each side, sift a little sugar over, and scfve as quickly as possible. Time, five or six minutes to fry the omelet. Probable cost, 8d. Suflicient for three persons. Jam Patties.—Rub two ounces of fresh butter into a quarter of a poimd of dried and sifted flour. Add a pinch of salt and a salt- spoonful of sugar, and moisten with the yolk of an egg, beaten up with two table-spoonfuls of cold water. Eoll the paste out twice, and each time spread an ounce of butter on it. Dredge a little flour over it, fold it up in a roU, and let it stand in a cool place for an hour or two. Before making it up roll it out once or twice, and the Last time leave it the thickness of half an inch, then stamp it out in fourteen small roimds, and with a smaller cutter stamp again quite through six of them, leaving a ring three-quarters of an inch wide. Lay a pastry ring on each perfect round, first moistening it a little with water to make it adhere securely. Bake the patties in a quick oven, fill them while warm with jam, and put on the top a small ornament, which has been lightly baked with the patties. Time, ten minutes to bake the patties. Probable cost, 1 Jd. each. Sufficient for six patties. Jam Puffs, or Turnovers.—Make some good puff paste or short crust (see Jam Patties); roll it out to the eighth of an inch in thickness, then stamp it out in roimds with a saucer or plate, or into squares. Spread a little jam on half the pastrj', wet the edges, and turn the other half quite over. Press the edges neatly together, and bake in a quick oven. Time, about twenty minutes to bake. Probable cost, l|d. each. Jam Roly-poly Pudding.—Shred five or six ounces of beef suet very finely; mix with it one pound of flour, add a pinch of salt, and half a tea-spoonful of baking - powder. Make it up into a firm paste with cold water ; then roll it out to the thickness of a quarter of an inch, wet the edges all round, and spread half a pound of jam over the pastry. Eoll it to the shape of a bolster, fasten the edges securely, and put the pudding into a floured cloth. Tie it at both ends, put it into boiling water without bending it, and let it boil quickly for about two hours. Send melted butter to table in a tureen. Imitation jam {see Jam, Imitation) makes a good pudding for the nur- sery. Probable cost, lOi Sufficient for four persons. Jam Sandwiches.—Mix the yolks of two eggs very smoothly with a table-spoonful ot flour and a table-spoonful of ground rice, add a very small pinch of salt, a table-spoonful of sugar, half a pint of thick cream, and a quarter of a pint of new nulk. Beat the whites of the eggs to a firm froth, add them last of all, and beat the mixture for four or five minutes. Butter two large plates, put in the mixture, and bake in a quick oven until it is set and lightly browned. Spread a little jam over one of the cakes and lay the other upon it, the browned part uppermost. Sift a little sugar over it before serving. Jam sandwiches may be eaten either hot or cold. Time, twenty minutes to bake. Probable cost, Is. 4d. Suflicient for three or four persons. Jam Tarts.—Make some pastry, as di- rected for Jam Patties. Butter a dozen patty- pans, and line them with the pastry rolled out to a quarter of an inch in thickness. Put them into a quick oven, and when nearly baked take them out and put a little jam in the centre of each, then return them to the oven and finish baking. An ornament already baked should bo placed upon each, or a little whipped cream. Time, a few minutes to bake. Probable cost, l|d. each. Sufficient for eight tarts. Jam Tart, Open.—Make some pastry, as directed for Jam Patties, or as follows:—Rub six oimces of butter into the same quantity of dried and sifted flour. Add a pinch of salt, half a tea-spoonful of baking-powder, a tea- spoonful of poimded sugar, and make it up into a smooth paste with the yolk of an egg beaten up with a little cold water; about a quarter of a pint will be required. Roll out the pastry to the thickness of a quarter of an inch. Butter an ornamented tart-pan and line it with the pastry. Trim the edges neatly, and prick a few holes in the bottom vvdth a fork. Bake in a moderate oven until lightly browned, then take the tart out, let it cool a little, spread the jam on it, and ornament the top with a few leaves or stars of pastry which have been baked separately. Time, about half an hour to bake. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for three or four persons. Jam, To Keep.—Pour the jam into perfectly sound dry bottles or jars. Glass bottles are the best, as through them any mould or fermentation can be easily perceived without remo\-ing the cover. If earthenware jars are used the jam should be looked at once or twice during the first two months, and if there is any appearance of the jam not keeping, it should bo gently reboiled. Place a round of thin paper dipped in brandy on the top of the jam. OutJAU JAM ( 338 ) Bomo rounds of paper sufficiently largo to over- lap the top of the jar about au inch. Brush the inside with beaten white of egg or with a little gum, and tie it on whilst wot. It will become hard and tight like the skin of a drum, and will thoroughly exclude the aii-. A neat label should bo placed on the front of all jars containing jam, and on this should be written the day of the month and year on which tlio jam was made, and the weight of sugar and fruit used in its preparation. Jam should be kept in a cool, dry place. Damp may turn it mouldy, heat make it ferment. Jambon, Cutlets au {see Cutlets au Jarabon). Jardiniere.—This is a garnish made of cooked vegetables, which gives its name to the dish with which it is served. Thus, fillet of beef a la jardiniere, mutton a la jardiniere, goose a la jardiniere, simply mean fillet of beef, mutton, and goose served with a garnish a la jardiniere. To prepare this garnish, peel two or three sound carrots and turnips, and turn or shape them in fanciful forms of equal size. This is most easily done with a vegetable scoop made for the purpose. Two ounces of Prench beans cut into diamonds should be added, a cauliflower divided into sprigs, two ounces of green peas, two ounces of asparagus tops cut up into small pieces, and a few Brussels sprouts. Cook aU the vegetables first in a little broth nicely flavoured with pepper, salt, and sugar. Take them out when they are rather j underdone, so that they shall not break when 1 dished ; drain them thoroughly, put them into I a saucepan with a table-spoonful of lightly- coloured glaze, and shake them for two or three minutes over the fixe. Take them up, and arrange them round the dish as effectively as possible. This is generally best done by raising the meat in the centre and putting the vegetables round it. Jardiniere Soup.—Scrape three sound carrots and the same number of turnips, and turn them into any fanciful shapes of an equal size with a French vegetable scoop. Put them into a stewpan with a dozen button onions, two or three leaves of lettuce, tarragon, and chervil, and a head of celery cut as nearly as possible the same size as the turnips and carrots. Pour over them two quarts of nicely-seasoned clear stock, and eimmer gently until the vege- • tables are tender. A small lump of sugar is an improvement. Taste the soup before sending it to table, in order to ascertain if further seasoning is required, and servo as hot as possible. Time, about an hour and a half. Probable cost, 4d. per quart, exclusive of the stock. Sufficient for six or eight persons. j Jargonelle Pears, To Bake.—Pare, core, and divide four large pears into quarters. Weigh them, and put them into a baking-dish with their weight in sugar, as much cold water as will barely cover them, three or four drops of cochineal, four cloves, and the thin rind of half a lemon. Put them into a moderate oven and bake them until they are tender, but be careful not to let thorn break. Lift the pears carefully into a glass dish, boil the sauce two or three minutes, strain it, and pour it over the fruit. A glass of sweet wine may be added or not. If a httle isinglass or gelatine is dissolved in the hot syrup, it will when cold form a jelly round the pears, and make a pretty dish. Time, one hour or more to bake. Probable cost, 8d., exclusive of the isinglass. Sufficient for three or four persons. Jargonelle Pears, To Preserve.— Gather the pears before they are fully ripe. Pare them as thinly as possible, cut out thi,- blaclc tops, and pick out the seeds. Weigh tlie fruit and sinuner it very gently until it is quiti- tender, but unbroken; then drain it, and make a syrup of one pound of sugar and half a pint of water to every pound of pears. Let this boil for five or six minutes, remove the scum as it rises, put in the pears and simmer them in the syrup five minutes longer. Lift out care- fully, and put them to stand in a dish with the sjTup, which must entirely cover them, for two days. Then put them again into the pan, and simmer them until they are clear, but they must not break; if a Httle lemon- rind is simmered with the syrup it will improve the flavour, and two or three drops of cochineal will improve the colour. Put the fruit into jars, pour the syrup over it, and cover securely. AVTien wanted the pears may either be served in the syrup or dried in a cool oven. Time, three days. Probable cost, pears, 3d. per pound. Jargonelle Pears, To Preserve (another way).—Prepare the pears as in the last recipe. '^^^len they are pared, cored, and weighed, put them into a saucepan, with vine leaves mider and over them: cover them with cold water, and simmer them gently for half an hour. Drain them, and make a syrup, allowing one poimd of sugar to every pound of fruit, and half a pint of water to every pound and a half of sugar, with one ounce of ginger, and the rind and juice of half a lemon. Boil this syrup for ten minutes, put in the pears, and let them sinuner a quarter of an hour. Lift them out carefully, boil the sjmip ten minutes longer, and when cold pour it over the pears. Cover them closely, and in three days boil the sjTup ten minutes again, and repeat this twice, three days being allowed to elapse between each boiling. The pears must be entirely covered with the sjTup while they are soaking. Put a clove in each pear. Put the fruit in a deep jar, pour the sjTup over it, cover closely to exclude the air, and keep in a cool, dry place. Probable cost of pears, 3d. per pound. Jaune Mange, or Dutch Flummery. —Take the thin rind of a liirge lemon, and put it into a saucepan with a pint of water, and four ounces of sugar. Simmer gently for a few minutes, then let the syrup stand by the side of the fire for half an hour, that the flavour of the lemon may be thoroughly drawn out. At the end of that timo put in one ounce of best isinglass, and stir until it is dissolved; add the strained juice of the lemon, and half a pint of shen-y or raisin wine. Strain the mixture into a jug, add the woU-heaten yolks of six oggs, and place the jug in a sauce^mn of boiling( 339 ) water; keep stirring until it thickens, but do not let it boil; let it cool, then pour it tlirough muslin into moulds which have been soaked in cold water, and let it remain until stiflE. Gelatine may be used instead of isinglass if preferred. Time, about ten minutes to thicken the mixture. Probable cost, Is. 8d., exclusive of the -wine, if made with iainglass; Is., if made with gelatine. Sufficient for a quart mould. Jejune Pudding.—Take the weight of four eggs with their shells on in sugar, butter, and flour; beat the butter to a cream, and mix with it the powdered sugar, the thin rind of a fresh lemon finely minced, the eggs thoroughly whisked, and, last of aU, the flour; beat all thoroughly until quite light. This pudding may be either baked or boiled. If baked, half fill some smaU moulds, well buttered, with the mixture, and bake in a quick oven. Turn out before serving. If boiled, pour the mixture into a well-buttered plain roimd mould, put a buttered paper over the top, tie it in a cloth, plunge it into boiling water, and boil for an hour and a half. A syrup flavoured with lemon, and sHghtly coloured with cochineal, may be poured into the dish with the pudding. Time, half an hour ,to bake the pudding. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for five or six persons. Jelly, General Observations on.— Jelly is most frequently made from calf's-foot stock, isinglass, or gelatine. When made from the first of these, it is very wholesome and nutri- tious, and is especially suited for convalescents. When isinglass and gelatine are used, many agreeable and pleasing dishes may be made for the table, but these should never be ofiPered to an invalid. As the jeUy which is sold by con- fectioners is almost always made of isinglass, calf's-foot jelly should, if possible, be made at home. Careful attention given to the jiirec- tions given under the heading, Calf's-foot Jelly, will insure a perfectly transparent jelly, and for this result once straining will generally be found sufficient, though, of cotirse, & necessary, it must be strained more than once. Jellies.—Recipes for ing jcUies will be found headings :— Ale or Porter Almoxd Apple Apple Calf's-foot Apple Juice for Jelly Apples, Red, with Jelly Apricot Apricots in White Jelly Apricots Preserved in Jelly Arrowroot AshBERRY Aspic Barherry Black Currant Bread Cabbage preparing the follow- under their respective Calf's-poot Calf's-foot, Apple Calf's-foot, Four- fruit Calf's-foot, Lemon Calf's-foot, IVIaras- OHINO Calf's-foot, Orange Calf' 8-foot,Stock for Coffee Cow-heel Craii Apples, Siberian Cranberry Cranberry and Ground Rice CURA^OA Currant, Black Currant, Red Currant, White Damson Fish, Jelly for Four-fruit Fowl Jelly, in Cakes French Fruit, Isinglass Gelatine Gloucester Gooseberry Gooseberry, Green Grape Grape, Isinglass Gravy, Jelly for GuAVA, Imitation Hartshorn Iceland Moss Irish Moss Isinglass and Gela- tine Isinglass, Constantia Isinglass, Cranberry Isinglass, Currant AND Raspberry Isinglass, Invalids' Isinglass, Lemon Isinglass, Orange Isinglass, Straw- berry Italian Ivory Ivory Dust Jelly, Four-fruit Lemon Lemons filled with Jelly Lemon Isinglass aKD Gelatine Lemon Isinglass, Su- perlative Madeira Wine Maraschino Marble Medlar Noyau Noyau with Al- mond Orange Apple Orange Calf's-foot ' Orange Orange Isinglass Orange filled with Jelly Panachee Pig's-feet and Ears Pine Apple Pomona Port Wine Jelly Punch Quince Raspberry Raspberry and Cur- rant Bice Rum Russian Sheep's Trotters Strawberry Tapioca Venus's. Jelly-bags. — Jelly-bags are much the strongest and best when made at home. The strong flannel used for ironing-blankets is the best for this purpose, and it should be made of JELLY-BAG. a half-square, and sewn at the sia with a double seam, so as to be wide at the oop, and pointed at the bottom. The top may be hemmed, and three tape loops sewn to it, by which the bag may be suspended when in use. A jelly-bag should always be wrung dry out of hot water before the liquid is poured into it. Jelly, Bottled, To Mould.—men .lelly IS wanted quickly, it may bo bought in bottles, ready made, 'and beautifully trans- parent. In order to mould it, uncork the bottle, and put it into boiling water. Let it remain until the jelly can be poured out of the bottles. Flavour it according to taste, but do not add very much Kquid, or it may interfere with.( 340 ) JEIi JEL the firmness of tlio jolly. Pour it into diinip moulds, and put it in a cool place, to bcjcoino stilt" again. Tiuio, a fow niinutos to dissolvo; some hours to becomo firm again. Probablo cost, from Is. to Is. 6d. per pint. Jelly Bread (Invalid Cookeuy). —Re- move t\w crust from a penny roll. Cut the crumb into thin slices, and toast those to a briglit brown on each side. Put them into a saucepan Avith a cjuart of cold spring water, and simmer gently until the liquid will jelly, which point may bo known by putting a little on one side to cool. Strain through muslin, sweeten, and flavour with wine and lemon-juice, if per- mitted. Time, an hour and a half to two houi-s. Probable cost, 2d., exclusive of the ■wine. Sufficient for one person. Jelly, Cream.—Put three pints of water into a saucepan with a quarter of a pound of hartshorn-shavings, and boil gently until the liquid will jelly. This may be easily ascer- tained by taking a little in a spoon, and letting it get cold. When sufficiently boiled, strain it, and add half a pint of cream, two table-spoon- fuls of rose or orange-flower -water, two table- spoonfuls of sherry, and two ounces of sifted sugar. Boil all together gently for five minutes, stirring all the time, to prevent the mixture curdling. When cool, poiir it into a damp mould, turn it out as soon as it is stiff, and poirr over it half a pint of cream, flavoured according to taste. Time, about three hours to simmer the shavings. Sufficient for a quart mould. Jelly Custard.—Put a pint of new milk into a saucepan, sweeten and flavour according to taste, and when it is lukewarm, pour it over the yolks of six well-beaten fresh eggs. Stir it over the fire until it is thick, but it must not boil; then add an ounce of dissolved isin- glass. Soak half a dozen small moulds of different sizes in water, pour in the custard, and when firmly set turn out the moulds, arrange them prettily on a dish, and pour over them a syrup flavoured with lemon-peel, and coloured with two or three drops of cochineal. Time, half an hour to prepare. Probable cost, Is. lOd. Sufficient for five or six persons. Jelly - Custard Tartlets. — Dissolve ' two table-spoonfuls of strawberry or red cur- rant jelly over the fire. Let it get quite cool, then mix with it gradually three well-beaten eggs. Three parts fill some tartlet tins, lined with puff paste, and bake in a quick oven for ten minutes. Probable cost, 2d. each. Sufficient for half a dozen tartlets. Jelly, Fancy.— A variety of pretty- looking dishes may be made with jelly, either hy using difl'erent colours, and allowing one colour to become perfectly firm before another colour is added, or by using the fancy moulds which are now so generally made. In these dishes very much depends upon the taste of the cook. A piece of cardboard may he cut out to fit the middle of the mould vety closely, and different-coloured jellies poured in at each side. Or a layer of one colour may be poured in, and allowed tf) become quite cold before another is added, and thus the mould be filled. This plan requires some time. When the mould is umde with hollow balls at the top, as is frequently the case, a pretty efliect may be produced by lilUng those balls only with a bright-coloured jelly, and when they are finhly set, adding the rest uncoloured. Another way is to half fill the uKJuld with blancmange, when tliis is set to pour over it a thin layer of jelly, and afterwards fill up with blancmange again. When there are any remains of difl'erent-coloured jelh(.'S they should be put into one mould, and a httle clear jelly, quite cold, and nearly set, poured over them. The fancy of the cook wiU doubtless suggest endless varieties for these dishes. Jelly Fish.—Make a quart of jeUy accord- ing to the directions given for Jelly Meat for Cold Pies. If at hand, the head and trim- mings of turbot, whiting, or skate may be stewed with the calf's foot, but they are not indispensable. Pass the jelly through the tamis until quite clear, and clarify it, if neces- sary, with the beaten whites and crushed shells of four eggs. Pour a layer of the jelly, about JEUY FISH. an inch in depth, into a wet mould, and when it is firmly set arrange some prawns or cray- fish roimd the edges, and add the remainder of the jelly. The fish must be put into the jelly backs downward, as it must be remembered that their position will be reversed when turned out. Time, about three hours to set each layer. Probable cost, 3s. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Jelly for Pies, To Clarify.—Jelly for pies should be made bright and clear in the same way as calf's-foot jelly—that is, it should be allowed to get cold, and then every particle of fat should be removed, the sediment which settles at the bottom of the pan being left undisturbed, and the jelly should be mixed thoroughly, when cold, with the whites and shells of eggs, two eggs being used for every pint of jelly. The contents of the saucepan must not be stirred after they once begin to heat, and they must boil a few minutes, and afterwards stand by the side of the fire for a few minutes, to settle, before the scum is removed and the jelly strained. If the moat bo slowly boiled,' jeily wiU seldom require clarifj-ing with white of egg, but it should always be made the day before it is wanted, so that the fat and sediment may be effectually removed. Time, ten minutes to boil the jelly, and a (|uartcr of an hour to let it settle. Jelly for the Sick (Invalid Cookery).— Care should be taken in making jelly forJEL JEL ( 341 ) invalids to ascertain whether or not 'wine and lemon-juico are allowed before putting them into the stock. Generally speaking, any yery decided tlavour is objected to, and sugai- should be sparingly used, as sweetness cloys a deli- cate appetite. As, however, the acid and sugar materially assist the clearing of the jelly, it would be well, when these cannot be admitted, to add the white and shell of another egg. In this case, therefore, thi-ee instead of two eggs should be put -with every pint of stock. Change of diet is very desirable for invalids. A pleasing variety may be made by making the jelly savoury instead of sweet. This can be done by stewing with the feet an onion, a dozen peppercorns, and a blade of mace. If a pound of the shin of beef be added to this, a very nourishing jeUy will be produced. Time, five or six hours to stew. Probable cost of feet, 9d. to Is. each. Two feet will make a quart of jeUy. Jelly, FOTir-fruit {see Four-fruit Jelly). Jelly in Orange-skins.—Take four large sound oranges. Cut out a round about an inch iu diameter from the stalk end, and scoop out the contents of the orange very thoroughly with a tea-spoon. Throw the skins into cold water for two or three hours, to harden them, and meanwhile make the juice as clear as possible by straining it through a jelly-bag, and with it some white paper, reduced to a pulp by being washed in several waters. Add an ounce of isinglass dis- soh'^ed in as little water as possible, and a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, and strain the jelly again untU. it is quite clear. Take out the skins, let them drain, and if inadvertently any holes have been made, fill them up vdth butter. Put the jeUy into the orange-skins, and when they are quite cold, cut them into quarters with a sharp knife, pile them on a napkin, and gar- nish them prettily with bright green leaves. The appearance of the fruit is much improved if the oranges are filled with different-coloured jellies, but when this is done, one colour must becoine firm before the next is added. Pro- bable cost, 2s. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Jelly, Isinglass Clarified for.—Put an ounce of isinglass into an enamelled sauce- pan with half a pint of water. Bring it slowly to a boil, then draw the pan to the side of the fire, and simmer gently for half an hour, being careful to stir the isinglass constantly, to prevent it sticking. Remove the scum as it rises, and put it on a sieve which has been moistened with boiling water. A Kttle clear jelly may drain from it, and this may be added to the isinglass. A tea-spoonful of cold water should be put in two or three times to assist the scum in rising. When the jeUy is required exceedingly transparent, a tea-spoonful of beaten white of egg may be added to the water in which the isinglass is dissolved, but when this is done, a little more isinglass should be allowed, as the white of egg has a tendency to weaken it. An ounce of isinglass is usually considered necessary for a pint of juico. Pro- bable cost, Is. 2d. per ounce. Sufficient, half a pint of water for an ounce of isinglass. Jelly, Li(iueur.—This jelly may be made with mixraschino, noyau, cvira9oa, or any other liqueur. Dissolve two ounces of best Russian isinglass in a pint of water, being careful to remove the scum as it rises, add a pound of loaf sugar, which has been boiled to a syrup with half a piat of water, and also carefully skimmed, the strained juice of a lemon, and a quarter of a pint of liqueur. Mix thoroughly, pour the jeUy through a tamis into a damp mould, and set it iu ice until wanted for use. If the jeUy be very stilf the mould should be dipped for a moment ia boiling water before turning it upon the dish. Time, half an hour to clarify the isinglass, ten minutes to clarify the sugar. Probable cost, exclusive of the liqueur, 2s. 8d. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Jelly, Meat, for Pies, Economi9aI. Soak about an ounce of gelatine in a little cold water. Let it swell. Mix half a tea- spoonful of Liebig's extract of meat with a pint of boiling water, and put it into a saucepan with a shallot, a tea-spoonful of salt, half a dozen peppercorns, a clove, the very thin rind of a quarter of a lemon, and a dessert-spoonful of tarragon vinegar. Simmer gently until the flavouring is extracted, add the gelatine, and when this is dissolved, strain the liquid through a bag, add a wine-glassful of white wine, if approved, and put the jelly aside to set. Cut it into dice or use it as required. Time, forty minutes to simmer the gravj^. Probable cost, 5d., exclusive of the wine. Sufficient for a pint and a half of jelly. Jelly, Meat, for Cold Pies.—Scald and prepare a calf's foot, and put it into a stewpan with half a pound of the knuckle of a leg or shoulder of veal, two shallots, a small bunch of savoury herbs, an onion with two cloves stuck in it, a lump of sugar, and the thin lind of haK a lemon, a tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of cayenne, and three quarts of cold spring water. Bring the liqtdd to a boil, remove the scum carefully as it rises, and simmer gently for five or six hours. Run the jelly through a bag, and let it stand aside untU cold. Take away the sediment and the fat, and pour the gravy into the pie through an opening in the cover. The flavour of this jelly shoTild be varied with the dish for which it is required. If for a chicken-and-ham pie, the neck, bones, and trimmings of the cliicken should be stewed with the gravy, together with half a poimd of lean, undressed ham, or the lind of bacon soaked, scraped, and cut smaU. If for hare or game pie, the bones and trim- mings of the hare or game should be used. Sufficient for three pints of gravy. Probable cost. Is. 8d. Jelly, Meat, for Pies, Superior.— Take a pound and a half of the knuckle or neck of veal and half a pound of the shin of beef. Cut them into small pieces, and put them into a saucepan with a quarter of a pint of good beef stock; simmer gently for half an hour, then add two pints more stock, and also a shallot, three ounces of undressed lean ham, a quarter of a tea-spoonful of bruised celery- seed tied in muslin, a clove, a small bunch ofJEL JEL ( 342 ) Kivoury horba, and half a dozen peppercorns bimmor slowly for throo or four hours, or until the liquid will jolly. If quickly boiled, tho jolly will not be so clear. Strain tho Lmivy add salt if required, and put it aside until quite cold, so that the fat may be entirely removed Probable cost, 28. Gd. Sufficient for a pint ami a half of jelly. Jelly, Meat used in Stock for.—A good bi-fuldust or luncheon dish may bo made of tho meat from the foot which have been stewed for stock. Take away the bones, and cut the meat into neat pieces, season thorn with ^It and cayenne, and a little pounded mace. Press them into a mould, pour over them a Uttle of the jelly, and when cold tuna out in a shape. Garnish according to taste. Time, a quarter of an hour to prepare. Probable cost, Id. or 2d. Sufficient for two or three persons, if made from the remains of two feet. Jelly Mould {see Illustration accompany- ing tho notice of Apple Calf's Foot Jelly). Jelly, Open, with Whipped Cream. —Prepare a pint and a half of perfectly trans- parent jelly, either calf's foot, isinglass, or gelatine; colom- it, if liked, with two or three drops of cochineal, and put it into a damp mould made with an opening in the centre on purpose for dishes of this description. When the jelly is firmly set, have ready three-quarters of a pint of whipped cream nicely flavoured and sweetened. Pile this in the opening as high as possible, and it is ready to serve. If an open mould is not at hand, a gallipot filled with cold water may be put into an ordinary mould, then removed when the jelly round it is cold. Jelly Pudding.—Soak the thin rind of a fresh lemon in two table-spoonfuls of spring water for half an hour. While it is soaking, beat five ounces of fresh butter to a cream, add four ounces of pounded and sifted sugar, and, very gradually, the yolks of three eggs, well beaten. Line a small pie-dish with good p\iff paste. When it is time for the pudding to be baked, mix with it the strained lemon-water, and the whites of the eggs, beaten to a soUd froth, and bake in a quick oven. Time, twenty minutes to bake. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for three persons. Jelly, Rice.—Mix four ounces of rice- flour smoothly and gradually with a quart of cold milk; put them into a saucepan with a quarter of an ounce of clarified isinglass, the thin rind of half a lemon, four bitter almonds, blanched and pounded, and four ounces of sugar. Boil and stir briskly until quite thick. Take out the lemon-rind, and pour the mixture into a damp mould. When it is fii-mly set, turn it on a glass dish, pour melted currant jelly, or any fruit syrup, round it, and send a jug of cream to table with it. Time, five minutes after boiling. Probable cost, 8d., ex- clusive of the sauces. Sufficient for five or six persons. Jelly, Stock for.—Stock for jellies may be macfe either of calf's foot, ox-heel, or the shank-bones of mutton. In all these the pro- cess—long and gentle stewing—is tho same. The quantity of water required is as follows:— C-a// *./oo< Stock—Vtoiimtg two calf s feet from tho butcher. Lay them in a saucepan of scald- mg hot water for three or four minutes, then scrape off the hair witli the back of a knife. Divide thorn into halves, knock off the hoofs, remove the fat from between the toes, wash in two or three waters, and put them into a sauce- pan with two quarts of cold water. Bring them slowly to a boil, remove the scum as it rises, assist it to rise l)y throwing in a few drops of cold water when the liquid is on the point of boiling, and simmer gently for five or six hours, until the liquid is reduced fully one-half. Strain it, and put it aside until cold. Before using it, remove tho fat from it, with an iron spoon which has been dipped into boiling water. When as much fat as possible has been taken off, a cloth dipped in hot water and squeezed drv should be dabbed over the jelly, which should then be lightly dried. Ox-lied iS76cyk—Take two heels, scalded, but unboiled, remove the fat from between the claws, and wash them thoroughly in lukewarm water. Put them into a saucepan with three quarts of cold water. Bring this to a boil, remove the scum carefully, and simmer gently for seven or eight hours, or until the liquid is reduced one-half. Strain and pour off the stock, and set it aside to cool. Shank-bones of Mutton—Wash and brush a dozen shank-bones of mutton. Pour over them three pints of water, and simmer gently for seven or eight hours until the liquid is reduced to a pint. The stock for jeUies should always be made the day before it is wanted, so that the fat and sediment may be effectually removed. Probable cost, calf's feet. Is. each; ox-heel, 6d. each; shank-bones, 3d. or 4d. per dozen, when they are to be bought. The butchers, however, verj^ frequently weigh them with the leg. Jelly, S3rrup Clarified for.—When jelly is desired very clear and transparent it is safer to clarify the sugar as well as the isin- glass. Mix a pint of water with a tea-spoonful of the beaten white of egg. Put it into a sauce- pan with a pound of loaf sugar, and let it boil gentl}' until the scum ceases to rise. Re- move the scum carefully, and strain the syrup through a napkin into a basin. Time, about a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, 5d. Jelly, Weak Wine (Invalid Cookery). —Put an ounce of isinglass into an enamelled saucepan with three-quarters of a pint of water and three ounces of sugar. Boil gently until it is dissolved, remove the scvim carefully as it rises, and throw in a tea-spoonful of cold water two or three times, to assist it in doing so. Strain the jelly through a bag which has been wrung out of hot water, add the juice of a couple of oranges, and a quarter of a pint of good sherry, and pour the liquid into glasses. Let it be kept in a cool place \intil firmly set. Though this jelly will be agreeable and refresh- ing, it will not be as nourishing as if made from calf s feet. Time, half an hour to dissolve the isinglass. Probable cost, exclusive of the wine, Is. 4d. Sufficient for four or five glasses. Jelly, Whipped.—Take the remains of any col'd jolly. Dissolve it over a gentle fire, put it into a basin, and place this upon some rough ice mixed with salt, whisk it briskly untiiJOH ( 343 ) JEN it is well frothed. Pour it into a mould, and set this at once in ice. When fii-m, turn it out on a dish. Time, a few minutes to dissolve. Jenny's Pudding.—Butter a small plain mould mther thickly, and ornament it with dried cherries and slices of lemon-peel stuck in layers aU round the inside. Cut some thin slices of sponge biscuit, and with these Line the mould. Fill up the centre with ratafia bis- cuits and the crumb of bread, finely grated, lay slices of sponge biscuit over the top, and pour over the whole by degrees as much rich custard as it will absorb. Let the pudding stand for an hour or two. Then cover it with buttered ■writing paper, tie it in a cloth, plunge it into boiling water, and boil quickly for an hour. The mould must be quite full. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Sufficient for three persons. Jersey Milk Curry.—Take the remains of any kind of white boiled fish. Eemove the bones and skin, and cut the flesh into neat slices, dredge a little flour over them, and fry them in a little butter, with two shallots, finely minced, supposing there are two poimds of fish. Dredge a table-spoonful of curry-powder over them, and put them on a hot plate in the oven until required. Melt two ounces of butter over the fire, and mix smoothly with it two table- spoonfuls of flour. Add a small tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonfiil of mixed spice, and as much milk as will make it of the con- sistency of thick cream. Let it boil gently for a few minutes, then put in the slices of fish, and let them remain for half an hour. Just before serving, squeeze the juice of half a lemon over them. Probable cost, exclusive of the cold fish, 6d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Jersey Pudding.—Mix an ounce of fiour thoroughly with two ounces of ground rice, two ounces of moist sugar, and a very small pinch of salt. Work these ingredients smoothly into four ounces of butter. Add two ounces'of stoned raisins, chopped small, a tea-spoonful of finely-minced lemon-rind, three well-beaten eggs, and two table-spoonfuls of milk. Pour the mixture into a weU-buttered mould, cover it with an oiled paper, tie it in a cloth, and keep it boiling imtil it is done enough. Pour round the pudding a sauce made of s>Tup, flavoured with lemon-rind and juice, and coloured with two or three drops of cochineal. Time, one hour to boil. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for two persons. Jerusalem Artichokes {see Artichokes, Jerusalem). Jewish Almond Pudding {see Ahnond Pudding, Jewish). Jewish Method of Prying Fish {see Fish, Fried, Jewish Fashion). Jewish Sausage, or Chorissa.—This is used as an accompaniment to boiled fish and other dishes, and is often met with at Jewish tables. It is purchased of the Jew butchers, and is prepared in the following way:—Place the chorissa in warm water, let it heat gently, and then boil for twcntv minutes. Serve, sur- rounded with rico made ready as for curry. Jewish sausages are very good broiled in slices after the previous boiling. They should be quite cold before being put again to the fire One authority is of opinion that they will be found more digestible, as well as pleasfjiter to the taste, if they are half-boiled at least before being broiled, toasted, or warmed in the oven for the table. Jewish Smoked Beef.—Like the sau- sages of the preceding paragraph Jewish smoked beef is to be bought of the Jew butchers. To I cook it, drop the meat into boiling water, let it ; boil for ten minutes, take off any scum that j rises to the surface, add cold water enough to I reduce the Hquid to mere scalding heat, then i bring it gently to the boil, and simmer until ! the lean of the meat feels quite tender when probed with a sharp skewer. Lift the meat on a drainer, and serve hot or cold, and garnish to taste with vegetables or otherwise. John Dory.—The John Dory or Jaune Dore, so named from the yellow tints on its sur- face, is a comparatively rare, and consequently- expensive, fish, which is seasonable from Michael- mas to Christmas. The flesh is white and firm, something hke the claw of a lobster, and, in fish weighing more than seven or eight pounds, is apt to be rather coarse and strong. It is best, both in flavour and quality, when weigh- ing from four to six pounds. Though the oiliness of the skin unfits it for broiling, it is very good when boiled. AVhen very small the John Dory is best baked. It is considered by some inferior only to the turbot. Probable j cost, 3s. to 6s. John Dory, Baked.—Clean, dry, and flour a small fish, season it with pepper and [ salt, and sprinkle a little finely-minced parsley I over it. Brush it well with clarified butter, I and place it in a well-buttered baking-dish, j Pour a glass of light wine over it, and bake in a moderate oven. For sauce, beat the yolks of two eggs, put them into a saucepan with two ounces of butter, the strained juice of half a fresh lemon, two table-spoonfuls of cold water, half a salt-spoonful of salt, a grain of cayenne, and a smaU pinch of powdered mace. Stir weU until the sauce nearly boils. If the boiling point is reached the sauce will curdle. Send it to table poirred over the fish, and garnish with cut lemon and parsley. Time, twenty minutes to bake. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for two or three persons. John Dory, Boiled.—Empty and cleanse the fish thoroughly, and rub a little salt over the outside. Cut off the fins, and put it into a fish-kettle, with cold water enough to cover it, and an ounce of salt to each quart of water. Heat it very ' gradually, and be careful that it boils slowly. Serve on a hot napkin, and garnish with curled parsley and cut lemon. Shrimp, ancho^T^, lobster, or Dutch sauce should be sent to table with the fish. Time to boil, ac- cording to the size ; a fish weighing five pounds will require about a quarter of an hour's gentle boiling. Probable cost, 3s. to 6s. Sufficient for five or six persons. John Dory, Cold, To "Warm up.— This fish when warmed up is apt to taste a( 344 ) JTJG JOH littlo strong, thoreforo tho best way of serving it a second time is as a sahid, or in a mayon- naise. If this is not liked, remove tho liesh from tho bones, and divide it into rather hirgo pieces. Put tliese into a saucopan, season witli salt and cayenne, and pour over them any re- mains of the sauce with which it was sorvod wlien cold, and heat it gradually for a few minutes, but do not kit it boil. Lift it out gently, so as not to break tho fish, and serve on a hot dish. If there is no cold sauce, a littlo molted butter, flavoured with two or throe drops of oHsenco of anchovies, may be used instead. 8uflicient, if made with a pound of fish, for two persons. Joh.n Dory (on Matoloto).—Chop small a dozen oysters—the tinned oysters may bo used for this purpose—and mix them thoroughly with three boned ancho\'ie8, also finely minced, a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, the eighth of a nutmeg, grated, four table-spoonfuls of finely- grated bread-crumbs, and three ounces of butter or chopped suet. Mix all thoroughly, add pepper and salt to taste, the well-beaten yolks of two eggs, and eight table-spoonfuls of new milk. Put all into a stewpan, stir briskly over a gentle fire until the mixture thickens, then fill the Dory with the forcemeat, and sew up the slit. Put the fish into a saucepan, barely cover it with cold water, and put with it a turnip, a carrot, a bunch of savoury herbs, a large sprig of parsley, a quarter of a pint of vinegar, half a tea-spoonful of bruised celery-seed, and a table- spoonful of salt. Boil gently until the fish is sufficiently cooked. Serve on a hot dish, and send the following sauce to table in a tureen with it:—Melt a piece of butter the size of an egg in a saucepan, fry in this turee small onions, sliced very thin, add a table-spoonful of minced parsley, and another of minced chives, a table- spoonful of mushroom ketchup, a glass of claret, and a glass of the liquid in which the fish was boiled. Stew gently for a few minutes until the onions are done, strain through a cloth, and then add half a pint of good brown sauce. Boil until the sauce coats the spoon. A few drops of essence of anchovy and the juice of half a lemon may be added, if liked. Time, a quarter of an hour after boiling for a moderate-sized fish. Probable cost of John Dory, 3s. to 5s. Sufficient for six or eight persons. John Dory, Sauce for—Wten red mullet are plentiful, and. this they are very much so occasionally, a good sauce for the John Dory may be made by boiling one, pounding the flesh, rubbing it through a l^air sieve, and mixing it with half a pint of melted butter. Time, ten minutes to boil the mullet. John, Oxford (see Oxford John). Johnny or Journey Cakes.-Take a pint of InLn meal, mix a htt e salt with it, and as much boiling water as wiU form a batter This will bo about half a pmt. Beat it well for several minutes, then spread it, to about the eighth of an inch in thickness, on a smooth piece of board. Place the board upright in front of a clear fire, and bake the cake When well browned, cut it into squares, split these, put butter between, and send them to table as hot as possible. Time, bake until weU browned —about twenty minutes. Sufficient for two or three persons. Johnny or Journey Cakes (another way).—iSce Indian Meal JoTiniiy Cakes. Johnny or Journey Cakes (another way).— Pour a j)int <jf boiling milk over a tea-cupful and a Jialf of Indian meal, and beat it well for a quarter of an hour. Unless tins is done tho cakes will not be light. Add a pinch of salt, a tea-spoonful of cai'bonatt; of soda, a table-spoonful of fioui', two table-spoon- fuls of sour milk, a Ijoaten egg, and a table- spoonful of oiled butter. This will make a batter of the consistence of that used for j)an- cakes. Johnny cakes are best baked in a spider (a deep iron pan) on the stove. When this is not convenient, they may be spread in buttered pans, the eighth ot an inch in thickness, and baked in a quick oven. When well browned, split the cakes, put butter between them, and serve as hot as possible. Time, bake till well- browned—about twenty minutes. Sufficient for four or five persons. Josephine Cake.—Beat four ounces of fresh butter to a cream, mix with it three ounces of pounded and sifted sugar, which, before being powdered, has been well rubbed upon the rind of half a fresh lemon. Add three well-beaten eggs, half a pound of biscuit flour, a quarter of a pound of picked currants, and two table-spoonfuls of sherry or madeira. Beat all well together for some minutes, put the mixture into a well-buttered mould, and bake in a good oven. Time, forty minutes to bake. Probable cost, exclusive of the wine, lOd. Sufficient for three or four persons, or a small mould. Jubilee Pudding.—Take half a pound of spongecake, rather stale than otherwise, and cut it into thin slices. Butter one side, and spread the other either with orange marmalade or apricot jam, then place the slices in Layers in a plain "round mould, buttered side down- wards. Pour three-quarters of a pint of good custard over each layer, and repeat imtil the mould is full. Let the pudding soak for an hour, then bake in a quick oven, and turn out before serving. Wine or brandy sauce may be sent to table with it. Time, an hour and a quarter to bake. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Suffi- cient for four or five persons. Judy's Pudding.—Shred a quarter of a pound of beef suet very finely. Iilix Adth it a quarter of a pound of finely-grated bread-cnunbs, a table-spoonful of flour, two table-spoonfuls of moist sugar, two well-beaten eggs, and a table- spoonful of bi-andy or whiskj'. When thcs.? ingredients are thoroughly blended, pour tho mixture into a well buttered mould, lay a buttered paper over it, tie it in a floured cloth, and boil for one hour and a half. . Turn tho pudding out of the mould before servmg, ami pour brandied sauce round it. Probable cost, exclusive of the brandy, Gd. Sufficient for thi-ec or four persons. Jugged Gravy—Cut a pound and a half of the shin of Itocf and three ounces of lt>an ham into small pieces. Roll them hghlly m( 345 ) KAIt ;ruii floiir and put them into a deep earthen jar, with an onion stuck ^vith three cloves, a sliced carrot, a shallot, half a tea-spoonful of pounded celery- soed, tiod in muslin, half a dozen peppercorns, a bunch of sweet herbs, a slice of bread toasted liard and brown, and half a blade of mace. Pour in three pints of water; tie several folds of paper over the top of the jar to prevent the steam escaping, and bake in a moderate oven for aix hours. Strain the givivy. Let it get quite (.-old, so that the fat may be effectually removed, and before serving add a table- spoonful of mushroom ketchup and a table- spoonful of port. A moderate oven is the best. Probable cost. Is. 8d. Sufficient for a pint and a half of gravy. Julienne Soup.—Take three carrots,three turnips, the white part of a head of celery, three onions, and three leeks. Wash and dry the vegetables, and cut theui into thin shreds, which should be not more than one inch in length. Place the shreds in a stowpan with two ounces of butter and a small pinch of pounded sugar, and stir them over a slow fire until slightly browned. Pour over them three quarts of clear stock {see Stock), and simmer gently for an hour, or until the vegetables are tender. Carefully remove the scum and gTease, and half an hour before the soup is done enough, add two lumps of sugar, with two pinches of salt, and two pinches of pepper, if required, two cabbage let- tuces, twelve leaves of sorrel, and twelve leaves of chervil, cut in the same way as the other vegetables, after being immersed in boiling water for a minute. Boil half an hour longer, skim carefully, and serve. Send bread fried in dice to table, and serve as hot as possible It must be remembered that quick boiling would thicken and spoil this soup, which ought to be a clear brown. To save time there is an instru- ment to be bought called a rasp, which is specially adapted for cutting the roots rajfidly into the .proper form. Julienne is seasonable for nine months of the year only. In January, Febrijary, and March the carrots, turnips, and leeks required for it are hard and stringy. There are, however, vegetables to be bought ready cut, preserved, and dried, but these are much inferior in flavour to fresh vegetables. In summer time French beans, green peas, and asparagus tops may be put in, but they must be boiled separately and added a few minutes before serving. Probable cost, exclusive of the stock, about 1 s. 6d, Sufficient for eight or ten persona {see Vegetables, Dried-). Julep, Mint (see Mint Julep). Julep, Pine Apple.—Put a sliced ripe pine-apple in a glass Dowl, add the juice of two oranges, a gill of raspberry syrup, the same of maraschino and old gin, a bottle of sparkhng moselle, and about a pound of ice in shaves. When mixed, serve in flat glasses. Jumbles.—Rub the yellow part of a fresh lemon upon some lump sugar. When dry crush it to powder, and with half a pound of sugar mix half a pound of fine flour, two eggs tho- roughly whislced, and three ounces of dissolved butter. Make them up into a paste, and add, if required, a table-spoonful of thick cream. Drop the batter on buttered baking-tins from the point of a fork, and bake in a slow oven for twenty minutes or more. The jumbles are done enough when crisp and lightly browned. Pro- bable cost, lOd. The above ingredients aie sufficient for about a dozen cakes. Jumbles (another way).—Stir together till of a light brown colour a pound of sugar and half a pound of butter. Add eight eggs, beaten to a froth, essence of lemon or rose-water to taste, flour enough to make them sufficiently stiff to roll out. RoU out in powdered sugar, cut the paste into strips about half an inch wide and four inches long. Join the ends to- gether so as to form rings, lay the jumbles on flat tins that have been buttered, and bake them in a quick oven. Jumbles (anotherway).—Beat half a pound of butter to a cream, add a pound and a quarter of sugar, two pounds of flour, three well-beaten eggs, and two or three di-ops of the essence of lemon. Dissolve a smaU piece of saleratus in a httle boiling water, and mix this with half a pint of milk. Beat it up with the flour, &c., and when well mixed drop it in small cakes from the end of a fork, and bake in a quick oven for twenty-five minutes. Probable cost. Is. 6d. The above ingredients are sufficient for about four dozen jumbles. Jumbles, Almond (see Almond Jumbles) Jumbles, Apricot (see Apricot Jumbles). Junket, Devonshire {see Devonshire Junket). K Eale Brose.—Take an ox-heel. Cleanse it thoroughly, and pour over it five pints of water. Bring it to a boil, remove tlie scum as it rises, and let it simmer gently for four hours. Meanwhile take two large handfuls of greens; cleanse, and free them from insects, then shred them very finely. Put them into the broth; and when sufficiently cooked, stir half a pint of toasted oatmeal into a little of the fat broth. It should be stirred with the handle of a spoon, and very quickly, so as not to run into one mass, but to form knots. Add it to the rest, with salt and pepper to taste, let aU boil up to- gether, and serve as hot as possible. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Kale, Sea, Boiled.—Let the kale lie in cold water for half an hour, then wash and trim it, and tie in small bunches, put these into a good quantity of toiling wa^-er with some salt in it, and let the kale keep boiling until tender. Lift it out, drain the water from it, and send it to table with melted butter or white sauce. Time, about a quarter of an hour; but it may be boiled a few minutes longer, if liked well done. Probable cost, lOd. per basket. Sufficient, four or five heads for each person. Kale, Sea, Stewed in Gravy.—Wash and trim the kale, and tie it in small bunches. Put it in boiling salt and water, and let it boil softly for six or eight minutes; then take it out, drain it, and put it into a saucepan, with as much good brown gravy as wiU cover it. I,et it remain until tender, and serve with the gravyKET C 346 ) in which it was stewed poured over it. Pro- bable cost of kale, lOd. or more per basket, buflicient, one basket for four or tivo persons. Kalteschale, Plum (a German dish for hot weather).—6Ve Plum Kalteschale. Kebob.—This is an Indian dish, and is usuully luado of mutton, veal, or fowl. Its peculiarity is that it is cut into pieces, seasoned rather highly, then fastened together with skewers, and thus both cooked and served. For mutton kebobs, take either the loin or the best end of the neck. Remove the skin and fat, and cut the meat into steaks. Mix half a pint of iino bread-crumbs with a small nutmeg, grated, a dessert-spoonful of powdered mLxed herbs, a table-spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of pepper, and a small pinch of cayenne. Beat the yolks of three eggs. Dip the chops into these, and afterwards into the bread-crumbs, twice. _ Fasten them together in the position in which they were before they were cut, put a skewer through them, tie them to the spit, and roast before a clear fire. Baste them liberally with some good di-ipping and the con- tents of the pan. Have hali a pint of good brown gravy, thickened and flavoured, ready to pour over the mutcon before sending it to table. Time, an hour and a half to roast. Probable cost, if made with four pounds of the loin of mutton, 4s. Sufficient for five or six persons. Kebobbed Curry.—Fasten small pieces of veal or fowl alternately with slices of onion and pickled pork upon skewers, as in the last recipe. Sprinkle a little turmeric over the meat, and fry it, with a thinly-sliced onion, in butter, until lightly browned. Llix a table- spoonful of curry-powder smoothly with a pint of gravy, and simmer it gently with two small onions, a clove of garlic, and an acid apple, until the vegetables are sufficiently tender to pass through a sieve. Put the gravy and the meat into a saucepan, season with salt and pepper, add a bay-leaf, and stew until the gravy is considerably reduced and very rich. Serve on a hot dish. Time, a few minutes to fry the meat; an hour and a half to stew the gravy. Probable cost, 3s. Sufficient for three or four persons. Kebobbed Curry (another way).—See Curry, Kebobbed. Kebobbed Meat, Cutcharee Sauce to Serve with [see Cutcharee Sauce). Kebobbed Mutton or Veal.—Take two pounds of lean veal or mutton the third of an inch thick. Cut these into pieces about two inches square, and season them well with pepper, salt, and mixed spices. Slice two or three small onions or shallots very thinly, dip the moat into clarified butter, and put three or four pieces on a small skewer, with a little slice of onion or shallot between each. Fasten the skewers on a .spit, and roast before a clear fire. Baste liberall)', and ser\'e the meat on a hot dish, with rice boiled as for curry round it. If preferred, little pieces of pickled pork can be put with the veal. When this is done, the clarifiiid buttpr raa^ be dispensed with. Time, | three-quarters of an hour to roast. Probabla cost, 28. 4d. Sufficient for tliree or four persons. Kedgeree.—Kedgeree, or kidgeree, is an Indian dish, generally used for breakfast; it may be made of such fish as turbot, salmon, brill, soles, Jolm Dory, whiting, and shrimp.^', lioil three-quarters of a pound of rice in tho same way as for curry. Wh(;n soft and dry, put it into a saucepan, first with two ounces oi' butter, and afterwards with a quarter of a pound of the flesh of the fish, freed from skin and bone, and divided into small pieces. Season with cayenne, salt, and pepper — as much as may be required. Stir the kedgeree over the fire until quite hot, then add two well-beaten eggs, mix thoroughly, and serve at once. Time, until very hot, without boU- ing. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for hall a dozen persons. Kedgeree, Fish [see Fish Kedgeree). Kentish Cherries. Compote of Cherries, Kentish, Compute of). Kentish Suet Pudding. — Shred a quarter of a pound of beef suet very finely, add a pinch of salt, and ten ounces of fine flour; mix thoroughly, and make up into a paste, by the addition of an egg beaten up with a little cold water. Put the whole into a floured cloth, tie it securely, plunge it into boihng water, and boil quickly for an hour and a half. This pudding is very good with a jar of jam emptied over it, or eaten with hot gravy and boHed meat. If any is left, it may be toasted before the fire until brightly browned, and sensed with the same accompaniments as before. Probable cost, 4d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Kerry Buttermilk.—Hang three quarts of buttermilk, tied in a cheesecloth, in a cool airy situation. Put a basin under it for the whey to drip into, and let it remain for three days. Mi.: a glassful of brandy with the thickened whey, and half a pound, or more, if liked, of raspberry jam. Stir in a little pounded sugar, whisk thoroughly, and serve in a glass dish. Probable cost, 8d., exclu- sive of the brandJ^ Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Ketchup.—Good home-made ketchup is a most valuable addition to the storerooin, and a good housekeeper will always look with pride upon it as it stands, in closely-corked bottles, neatly labelled, upon her shelves, feeling as she may that she possesses close at hand the means of imparting a delicious flavour to her sauces and gravies without at the same time placing any deleterious compounds before her friends. Though excellent preparations are no doubt sold by respectable dealers, the superiority of ketchup when made at home is undisputed, and the comfortable certainty attending its use is so great, that we would earnestly recommend every lady who has the time and opportunity to do so, to superintend personally the manu- facture of that which is used in her kitchen. It is not well, however, to make a vcrv large quantity, as it is rarely improved by being long kept. Ketchup should be stored ir a cool( 347 ) KET KIB dry place; the corks should either be covered with resin, or a small piece of bladder should be tied over each one, and the liquid should be ex- amined frequently, and if there are the slightest signs of fermentation or mould, it should be re-boiled with a few peppercorns, and put into fresh dry bottles. It is perhaps needless to observe that great care must be taken that the mushi-ooms are of the edible kind. These may be known by their pleasant smell, by the skin parting easily from the edges and middle, by the upper part and the stalk beiug white, and by the colour of the under side, which is pink or salmon-coloored when the mushroom is young, and afterwards turns to a black or dark brown. Ketchups. — Recipes for making the following ketchups wlU, be found under their respective headings:— Mushroom Anchovy Cucumber Elderberry Fish Irish Walnut Lemon Mussel mustapha Oyster Tomato Walnut Kew Mince, or Haggis Royal.—Cut one pound of lean meat from a cold roast leg of mutton. Mix it with half a pound of finely- fihred suet, four table-spoonfuls of finely-grated bread-crumbs, one boned anchovy, one tea- spoonful of minced parsley, half a tea-spoonful of chopped lemon-rind, one small tea-spoonful of salt, and half a tea-spoonful of pepper. When the dry ingredients are thoroughly blended, add a wine-glassful of port or claret, and the yolks of four well-beaten eggs. Put the mixture neatly into a veal caul (or when this cannot be procured, put it into a saucepan), and bake in a quick oven. Serve as hot as possible, ■\vith half a pint of good brown gravy in the dish. Time, thi-ee-quarters of an hour to bake. Pro- bable c(Jst, exclusive of the wine. Is. 8d. Suffi- cient for four or five persons. Kid.—A young sucking kid, weU cooked, fonns an excellent dish, and is generally dressed whole, like a hare. If grown to any size, it should be jointed before cooking. As it is a dry meat it should be either soaked in a marinade for a few hours, and afterwards hung up for a day or two, or larded before being roasted. The marinade may be made of one pint of vinegar, one pint of cold water, half a pint of port, two ounces of salt, two ounces of moist sugar, twelve peppercorns, and a bay- leaf. Place the kid in this, baste it frequently, and wash it in the marinade once or twice when it is hung up after being taken out. Kid (i\ la Poulette).—Soak a young kid in milk and water for four hours. Drain it, bind strips of fat bacon round it, and roast before a clear fire for three-quarters of an hour. Take it down, and cut a neat piece, weighing about two pounds, from it, leaving the rest to hash, or cook at some other time. Put the piece cut of? into a saucepan, with a pint of veal stock, a tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of pepper, half a tea-spoonful of powdered mace, a dozen button-mushrooms, a bunch of parsley, and a piece of butter, the size of an egg, rolled in fiour. Let it stew gently for an hour; then take out the meat, place it on a hot dish, strain the sauce, let it boil up once more, then di-aw it to the side of the tire to cool for two minutes, and add gradually the well-beaten yolk of an egg, mixed with a table- spoonful of thick cream. The sauce must not boil after the egg is added, or it will cm-die. Pour the sauce over the kid, and serve as hot as possible. Garnish the dish with parsley and cut lemon. Probable cost, uncertain, kids being seldom offered for sale. Sufficient for four persons. Kid, Hashed.—Take about two pounds of the remains of a cold roast kid—if under-dressed so much the better. Cut it into neat slices, and put it into a covered dish untH wanted. Put a pint of good veal stock into a saucepan, with an ounce and a half of butter, roUed in flour, a tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of pepper, half a blade of mace, r. sprig of parsley, and a shallot. Simmer gently for half an hour. Strata the gravy, add a wine-glassful of port, a table-spoonful of mushi-oom ketchup, a tea- spoonful of lemon-juice, and a lump of sugar. Put in the slices of kid, let them get quite hot without boiling the gravy, and serve imme- diately. Spinach, cauliflowers, or French beans, are excellent as accompaniments to this dish. Probable cost, exclusive of the cold kid and wine, Is. Sufficient for four or five persons. Kid, Roast.—Soak the kid in a marinade, as directed above; then bind strips of fat bacon round it, and cover it with buttered paper. Put it down to a clear fire, and baste liberally. About half an hour before it is done enough, remove the paper and bacon, dredge some flour over the kid, and continue the basting as before. Dissolve one table-spoonful of red-cuiTant jelly in half a pint of mutton gravy, add a wine-glassful of claret, and send the sauce to table in a tureen. Time, according to size: to rotist a very young sucking kid will take about an hour and a half. Probable cost, uncertain, kids being seldom offered for sale. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Kidney and Beef Steak Pudding {see Beef Steak and Kidney Pudding). Kidney and Liver Pudding.—A good puddmg may be made with equal weights of ox kidney and liver, as follows :—Take three- quarters of a pound of each. Cut them into slices, and season with salt and cayenne. Fry these with two ounces of bacon, cut small, and two ounces of dripping. When lightly browned, pour over them by degrees three-quarters of a pint of water, or stock, mi.xed with a table- spoonful of flour. Line a pudding-basin with a good crust, put in the meat and gravy when nearly boiling, place the lid over, pinch the edges securely, tie the b'lsin in a floured cloth, plunge it into boiling water, and boil quickly until the puddinir is done enough. Serve as hot as possilde. Boil two hours and a half. Cost„ about lis., SuflicicuL i<>r I'uiu' or live poiKnus,IQD ( ) BID Kidney Beans {xce Beans, Pronch or Kidnny). Kidney Beans, White, Fricasseed. —Tiike ono pint of (lithur Irtiwh or dry whito kidnoy boau«. liuiiiovo tlio skinw; and in ordor to do this, tho beans, if dry, must Le soaked in water for ton or twelve liours, and aftorwarda boiled until tender, when tho skins will slip oft'. If fresh, they must be put into scalding water for a minute, and the skins peeled oft'. Put tlio beans into a saucepan, add as much good veal stock as will cover them, with half a tea-spoon- ful of salt, a quarter of a tea-spoonful of pepper, the eighth part of a nutmeg, grated, a large bunch of parsley, a small one of thyme, and a piece of fresh butter, rolled in flour. Sim- mer gently for fifteen minutes; then take out tho herbs, and put into the sauce a glass of sherry. Lot it boil, then draw it from the fire a minute to cool, and stir into it the yolks of two eggs, mixed with half a cupful of thick cream, and the strained juice of half a lemon. Serve on a hot dish, and garnish with French beans, pickled. Time, half an. hour to stew the beans after the skins have been taken off. Probable cost, 2d. or 3d. per pint. Sufficient for three or four persons. Kidney Fritters.—Make a batter with four well-beaten eggs, mixed with half a pint of new milk, and flavoured with a little pepper, salt, and pounded mace. Stir into this a tea- spoonful each of finely-shred chives, parsley, and mushrooms, and a table-spoonful of the remains of a cold veal kidney finely minced, and mixed with half its weight of fat. Beat together for two or three minutes, then melt an ounce of butter in the frying-pan, pour in the mixture, and stir it untU it is set. When it is browned on one side, turn it on a hot dish, hold a sala- mander or red-hot shovel over it for a minute or two to colour it on the other, and serve immediately. Time, five or six minutes. Pro- bable cost. Is. Sufficient for three persons. Kidney Gravy.—Take an ox kidney, or if prefeixed, four sheeps' kidneys, cut into slices, dredge these with flour, and fry them lightly in butter, with a thinly-sliced onion and a bunch of sweet herbs. Move them about gently until nicely browned, then pour over them a pint of water. Simmer gently for an hour and a half, strain, and set aside for use. Time, six minutes to fry the meat. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for one pint of giavy. Kidney Irish Stew.—Take the hard ,)ore out of the middle of an ox kidney, and cut it into pieces about one and a half inches square. Season with salt and pepper, and put it into a saucepan with an onion finely minced, and a quarter of a pint of water, or stock. Let the liquid boil, and remove the scum carefully; then put half a dozen large peeled potatoes into the pan, and simmer gently until they are suffi- ciently cooked, but unbroken. Put the kidney in the middle of a dish, arrange the potatoes round it, pour the gi-avy over all, and serve as hot as possible. Time, one hour to simmer the stew. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Kidney Omelet.—Take the remains of a cold veal kidney, or if this is not at liaud, cut a frosli one into slices, and fry it over a clear lire for tliree or lour minutes. Mince it very finely, season witli tadi and cayenne, and uiix two table-spoonfuls of tlie mince with tho well- beaten yolks of six and tho whites of three eggs. Add tlu'ce ounces of fresh ljutter, broken small. Put two ounces of butter in an omelet-pan, let it remain on a slow fire until it bubbles, then pour in the mixture, and stir biiskly for thi-ee or four minutes until the eggs are set. Fold the edges of the omelet over neatly, and tui'u it carefully upon a hot dish. Serve immeduit<,ly. If too much cooked it will be tough. Pro- bable cost. Is. Sufficient for thiee or four persons. Kidney, Ox, Stewed.—Cut a fresh ox kidney into slices the eighth of an inch ia thickness, soak them for a few minutes in luke- warm water, drain, and dry them thoroughly in a cloth. Season them with a little pepper, dredge flour thickly over them, and fry them in three ounces of hot butter, or dripping, until they are brightly browned. Pour over them as much cold water or stock as will cover them, and add a dessert-spoonful of vinegar in which onions have been pickled, or, if this is not at hand, plain vinegar or lemon-juice; a finely- minced shaUot, a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and a little salt and cayenne. Stew gently tiU done, and thicken the gravy before serving it. Half a tea-spoonful of mixed mustard may be stirred into the sauce before it is taken from the fire, if this is liked. Time to stew, two hours. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Sufficient for two or three persons. Kidney Pie (for breakfast or luncheon).— Take four veal kidneys, and half its bulk in fat with each. Cut them into slices a quarter of an inch thick, season rather highly ■with salt and cayenne, and add half a tea-spoonful of powdered mace for the whole. Cut the meat from a calf's foot, and season it in the same way. Place a layer of kidney at the bottom of a pie- dish, strew over it two ounces of finely-minced ham, and lay on this the slices of calf's foot. Eepeat until the dish is nearly full. Put the hard-boiled yolks of six eggs and half a dozen forcemeat balls at the top, and pour over them a quarter of a pint of veal stock, flavoured with lemon-juice. Line the edges of the dish with a good crust, cover it with the same, and bake in a moderate oven. Though forcemeat balls are an improvement to the pie, they may bo dispensed with. They are made as follows: — Strain ten or twelve oysters from their liquid, mince them very finely, and mix them with four ounces of finely-grated bread-crumbs, a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, half a ten- spoonful of grated lemon-rind, and a little salt, cayenne, and mace. Mix these ingredients thoroughly. Bind them together with the un- beaten yoik of an egg and a little of the oyster liquor, make them into balls, and they are ready for use. This pie, which is generally a favourite, should be eaten cold. A good pi(>, may be made with cold kidney and a few slices of tho kidnov-fat from a cold loin of vonl. instead of fresh kidneys. Time, from an hourEID ( 349 ) KIT imd a half .to two hours to bake. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Kidney Pudding—Cut the htu:d core out of the centre of an ox kidney, and divide the meat into pieces an iach square.^ Season these with pepper and salt; and, if liked, add an onion and two ounces of beef suet, finely mine ed. Make some pastry, with three-quarters of a pound of flour, half a pound of good dip- ping, and as much water as is requiied. fioU it out, line a pudding-basin with it, and put in the shces of meat. Foui- over them a tea-cupful of cold water, place a cover of pastry on the top, pinch the edges securely, tie the pudding in a floured cloth, and plunge it into boiling water. Boil quickly. Turn the puddiag out when cooked enough, and serve very hot. Time, three hours to boil. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Suflicient for four persons. Kidney Pudding (another way).—This pudding may also be made of mutton, veal, or lamb. Make the pastry as directed in the last recipe. Line a pudding-basin with it, and shce half a dozen kidneys. Season them with salt and cayeime, and sprinkle over them a dessert-spoonful of powdered herbs, of which two-thii'ds should be parsley and one-third thyme. Put them in the basin, pour over them two or three table-spoonfuls of good veal stock and a glassful of light wine ; cover them with the crust, pinch in the edges securely, tie the pudding ia a floured cloth, plimge it into boiling water, and keep' it boiling quickly until it is cooked enough. Serve as hot as possible. Time to boU, three hours. Probable cost, 2s. Suf- ficient for four or five persons. Kidney, Rissoles of.—Take the remains of an ox kidney ; cut some thin slices from it, weigh them, and to half a pound of kidney put half a pound of lean boiled ham. Mince the meat very finely, season with pepper and salt, and moisten it with the yolk of an egg well beaten. Poll out half a poimd of the trimmitfgs of puff paste to the thickness of the eighth of an inch. Divide the mince into small balls, roll each one in paste, and fry them in hot fat till they are brightly browmed. Serve as hot as possible, and garnish with parsley. Time, three or four minutes to fry. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Kidney Soup.—Cut an ox kidney into thin sUces. Season these with salt and pepper, dredge a little flour over them, and fiy them in butter until they are nicely browned. Pour over them as much boiling water as will cover them, and simmer gently for an hour. Take out the kidney, cut it into small pieces, and re- turn it to the saucepan, together with two quarts of stock, two tuniips, two carrots, one onion, three sticks of celery, all cut small, and a small bunch of savoury herbs. Simmer slowly for an hour and a half, then take out the herbs; add a tablo-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and a little salt and pepper, if required, and thicken the soup with a lump of butter rolled in flour. Probable cost, 1 s. 6d. per quart. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Kidney Toast.—Pound a cold veal kid- nry, with the fat which surrounds it, in a mortar. Season it with half a tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of pepper, the finely-grated rind of a quarter of a lemon, and two or three grates of nutmeg. Mix it with the white of an egg, well whisked. Lay it upon pieces of toast cut into squares. Cover with the yolk of the egg, well beaten, and strew bread-crimibs over. Melt one ounce of butter in a dish, put in the toasts, and place them in a hot oven to bake. Serve as hot as possible. Time, a quartet of an houi- to bako the toasts. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Kidneys (a la Tarttue).—Broil five or six kidneys. Put them on a hot dish, and serve the following sauce with them, which should be prepared before the kidneys are put on to broil:—Beat the yolk of an egg for two or three minutes. Add very gradually, in drops at first, six tea-spooniuls of oil, and then one of tarragon vinegar. Beat the mixture well between every addition, or the oil wiU fioat at the top. Repeat until the sauce is of the con- sistence of thick cream. Four table-spoonfuls of oil, and one of vinegar, will be about the quantity required. Add a pinch of salt, a small pinch of cayenne pepper, a table-spoonful of unmixed French mustard, five or six gherkins, three shallots, finely minced, a tea-spoonful each of chopped chervil, tarragon, and bumet, and half a tea-spoonful of Chili vinegar. Put a tea-spoonful of this sauce in the hollow of each kidney, and send the rest to table in a tureen. Time, six minutes to broil the kidney; about three-quarters of an hour to prepare the sauce. Sufficient for four or five persons. Probable cost, 3d. each. Kidneys, Minced.—Chop an ox kidney into pieces the size of a pea, season them rather highly with salt and cayenne, and fry them in two ounces of hot butter for a quarter of an hour, moving them about frequently in the pan, that they may be equally cooked. Moisten the mince with one table-spoonful of good brown gravy, and three table-spoonfuls of champagne, stew a few minutes longer and serve in a hot dish. Kidneys, Mutton {see Mutton Kidneys). Kitchen Mixed Spice, for White Sauce.—Take the grated rind of half a lemon, half a nutmeg, grated, an ounce of white pepper, and a tea-spoonful of powdered mace. ]\Iix thoroughly. If not quite fine, pound all together in a mortar, and keep in a closely- stoppered bottle until wanted for use. Probable cost, 4d. for this quantity. When using kit- chen mixed spice, put half a tea-spoonful into a pint of sauce, and taste if more is required. Kitchen Utensils {see Utensils, &c.). Kitchener's Salad Mixture. — Boil a couple of eggs for twelve minutes, and put them in a basin of cold water for a few minutes ; the yolks must be quite cold and hard, or they wiU not incorporate with the in- gredients. Rub them through a sieve w'ith a wooden spoon, and mix them with a table- spoonful of water, or fine double cream, then add two table-spoorfuis of oil, or melted butter;KRI KIT ( 850 ) when these are well mixed, add by degrees a tea-spooiif ul of salt, or powdered lump 8U!,'ar, and the same of made mustard. Whoa ihciso ini^ro- dient8 are smoothly united, add very gradu?illy three table-spooufuls of vinegar, rul) it with the other ingrodiduts till it is thoroughly incor- porated with thorn; cut up the white of the egg, and garnish the top of the sabid with it. Let the siiuce remain at the bottom of the bowl, and do not stir up the salad till it is to bo eaton. If the liorbs be young, freshly gathered, neatly trimmed, and drained dry, and the sauce maker ponders patiently over those directions, he cannot fail obtaining the fame of being a very accomplished salad dressor. Probable cost, 4d. Sufficient for a good-siz-d bowl of salad. Kitchener's Store Sauce. Super- lative (for iish, poultry, game, &c.).—Take a pint of claret or port, a pint of mushroom ketchup, half a pint of walnut or lemon pickle, four ounces of pounded anchovies, an ounce of fresh lemon-peel pared very thin, an ounce of scraped horseradish, an ounce of finely minced shallots, half an ounce of powdered black pep- per, half an ounce of allspice, a drachm of caj'enne—or three drachms of curry-powder— and a drachm of bruised celery-seed. Put these into a wide-mouthed bottle, and let them remain for a fortnight, shakmg them every day. At the end of that time strain, and i^ut into small bottles for use. Probable cost, 2s., exclusive of the wine. Sufficient, a table- spoonful for a quarter of a pint of melted butter or gravy. Klosse.—These dishes, which are purely German, are composed of small light baUs, boiled in water, gravy, or milk, and served hot, either as a garnish for other dishes or by themselves. They are generally composed of the crxxmb of bread, grated or soaked, potatoes, or rice and eggs, and they may be almost indefinitely varied with fish, meat, poultry, herbs, Kver, fruit, &c. In malring them, care should be taken to handle the klosse as lightly as possible, and to keep dipping the fingers in cold water whilst shaping them into balls. They should be dropped gently into the boiling liquid, simmered gently for eight or ten minutes, and served immediately they are taken out. The following is a simple recipe for klosse:—Take six ounces of finely-grated bread-crumbs, season them with half a tea-spoonful of salt and a little nutmeg, and mix them with four ounces of fresh butter, which has been beaten to a cream. Add three well-beaten eggs, mix thoroughly, shape into small balls, as they will swell in cooking, and drop them gently from a wet spoon into boiling water. _ Serve as soon as they are taken out, either in soup, or as a garnish for vegetables; or they may be piled in a pyramid in the middle of a hot dish, with fried potatoes round them. Time, eight or ten minutes to boil. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Klosse Bread, with Thyme.—Beat two ounces of fresh butter to a cream, mix with it a table-spoonful of tlour, the well-beaten yolka of four eggs, twelve; ounces of grated roll, and a little salt and nutmeg. Add sufficient powdered thyme to season, according to taste. aiix thoroughly; and when ready for cooking add the whites of the four eggs, beaten to a linn froth. Shape the klosse into small ballij ahout the size of a walnut, and di-op iheju from a wet spoon into boiling salted water. Simmer gijutly, and servo immediately they are taken out. Time, fifteen minutes to boil. ProhaWo cost, lOd. Sufficient for lialf a dozen persona, Klosse, Seasoned (to be eaten with eggs and bacon).—Chop a snxall onion as finely as possible. Mix with it two ounces of fat bacon, finely minced, and a tea-spoonful of pow- dered sago. Mix these ingredients thoroughly with three-quarters of a pound of grated bread- crumbs, a table-spoonful of flour, a little pepper and nutmeg, and the well-beaten yolks of four e^gs. When ready for cooking, add the whites of the eggs, beaten to a firm fioth. Br.il in salt and water, and serve piled m the middle of a hot dish, with fried rashers of bacon and poached eggs round. Time, fifteen minutes to boQ. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Kneaded Cakes.—Mix a quarter of a pound of currants with three-quarters of a pound of flour, and a pinch of salt. Slake up into a paste with some thick cream, knead well, roU to the thickness of half an inch, cut it into rounds with the top of a small teacup, and bake on a griddle, or in a brisk oven. If no cream is at hand, good cakes may be made by roUing out a poimd of puff paste to the thick- ness of a penny piece. Strew some currants and a little moist sugar over half of these, place the other half over them, and bake as before. These cakes are best when served hot. Time, ten or fifteen minutes to bake. Probable cost. Is., if made with cream ; 8d. with pastry. Sufficient for about two dozen cakes. Kouglauffe (German).—Beat ten ounces of fresh butter to a cream ; add a quarter of a poimd of fine flour, a pinch of salt, a tea- spoonful of powdered cinnamon, a quarter of an ounce of grated lemon-jjeel, two ounces of poimded sugar, and two eggs; stir all briskly together for ten minutes. Mix in by degrees three-quarters of a pound of flour and two a iditional eggs, and keep beating the paste quickly with a wooden spoon as they are put in. Dissolve three-quarters of an ounce of German yeast in a quarter of a pint of thick cream, which has been slightly warmed for the purpose. Make a hollow in the middle of the paste, pour in the cream and yeast, and work all thoroughly to a smooth batter. Butter a quart mould, place some blanched and sliced almonds round the inside at equal distances, and bake in a moderate oven. Do not k t the cake burn whilst baking. Time, bake until a skewer can be pushed easily to the bottom, and when taken out be quite dry—say from an hour and a half to two hours. Probable cost, 2s. Suffi- cient for a quart mould. Kringles.—Warm two ounces of fresh butter slightly, but not so as to melt it. ilix it v/ith the yolks of four and the whites of two eggs, well beaten; add two ounces of sifted sugar, lialf a pound of flour, and a pinch of salt, and knead to a smooth paste,LAD (851 ) KRO Roll the paste out to the thickness of half an inch. Stamp in rounds with an ordinary cutter, prick the rounds with a fork, and bake on buttered tins in a moderate oven. Time to bake, about twenty minutes. Probable cost, 8d. Suthcient for six or eight kringles. Kromeskies.—Kromeskies are croquettes cooked in the Russian manner; they are made as follows :—Mince the remains of any cold meat, fish, poultry, or shell-fish, as for cro- quettes ; season them nicely, and shape them, as usual, like a cork. Instead of dipping them in e"-g, and afterwards in bread-crumbs, cut 8ome° slices of cold fat bacon (boiled) as thin as waiting-paper; wrap the croquettes in these, dip each one in a little frying batter {see Batter for Frying), frj' them in hot clarified fat, and when brown and crisp, arrange neatly on a hot dish; garnish with fiied parsley, and serve immediately. Kromeskies may be made according to any of the recipes given for cro- quettes, and should be cooked as above. The following recipe will serve as a specimen. Kromeskies of Oysters.—Open care- fully one dozen fresh oysters. Beard them, and chop them small; then mince cold chicken or turkey very finely. Mix equal quantities, add three mushrooms cut into small pieces, the yolk of an egg, the oyster liquor, and a table-spoonful of cream. Stir the mix- ture over a slow fire until it is quite thick; then put it into a cool place for an hour, and when cold, roll it into croquettes the shape and size of small corks; fold thin fat bacon round these, dip them into a frying batter, and fry them in hot fat until they ai-e crisp and brown. Serve piled in the centre of a hot dish, and garnish with fried parsley. Time, six or eight minutes to fry. Probable cost, about 3s. Sufficient for three or four persons. Kuwab Fowl.—Put four cloves, a drachm of poimdT3d ginger, a di'achm of cayeime, and haK an ounce of coriander-seed in a mortar. Pound these until quite smooth, and mix with them three small onions, finely minced. Divide a small chicken into neat joints; rub them inside and out with the mixture, and put them into a frying-pan, with a quarter of a pound of sweet butter. Turn them about constantly, and when they are brightly browned aU over and sufficiently cooked, squeeze over them the strained juice of a lemon, and serve as hot as possible. Time to cook, half an hour Pro- bable cost of chicken, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for two or three persons. Ladies' Pickle (sometimes called Ladies' JJolight).—ilix a quarter of a pound of Spanish onions, finely minced, with a quarter of a pound of chopped apples, and an ounce of chopped chilies. Pour over them half a pint of white wine vinegar, which has been boiled with a t(ia-Mpoonful of salt, and when cold put the mixture into bottles, to be used as a relish for cold meat. A stick of celery, finely minced, ia by many persons considered an improvement to this favourite pickle. Time, half an hour to pre- pare. Probable cost, 8d. for this quantity. Ladies' Wine Biscuits (sometimes" called Ladies' Lips).—Mix three ounces of ground rice and three ounces of finely-sifted sugar. Make them into a paste with three' fresh eggs. Beat all thoroughly for some minutes, then spread the mixture evenly and thinly on paper, and bake on a well-oiled tin for twenty minutes. Stamp the paste into small ornamental shapes with an ordinary pastry- cutter, and spread over them a thin coating of icing, prepared as foUows:—Beat the white of an egg to a firm fi'oth. Mix with it a quarter of a pound of finely-sifted sugar and as much cold water as will make it quite smooth. Colour part of this with two or three drops of cochineal. Spread a little on the top of the biscuits, and put them into a cool oven until the icing sets. Keep the biscuits in a tin box, closely covered, imtil wanted for use. Time, twenty minutes to bake. Probable cost, 7d. for this quantity. Lady Abbess' Pudding.—This excel- lent puading is sometimes called Lady Betty's Delight. Take the thin riad of a fresh lemon, and let it soak for half an hour in half a pint of new nulk, then sweeten with two table- spoonfuls of sugar. Put the whole into a saucepan, and when well heated, add two large fresh eggs and the milk of a cocoa-nut, and put the custard aside to cool. Shred four ounces of beef suet very finely, grate two ounces of a fresh cocoa-nut, and stone and mince six ounces of Muscatel raisins. Cut four ounces of stale bread into thin slices. Butter a plain round mould, and stick raisins upon it in even rows. Put a slice of bread at the bottom, and place upon it a little suet, a few raisins, a little chopped lemon-rind and juice, three grates of nutmeg, and a little custard, and repeat until all the ingredients are used, being careful to place bread and custard at the top. Let the pudding soak for an hour, then lay a buttered paper on the top, tie in a floured cloth, plunge into boiling water, and let it boil quickly until done enough. Turn it out carefully, and serve with the following sauce in a tureen. Mix a tea- epoonful of arrowroot very smoothly vdth. two table-spoonfuls of cocoa-nut milk. Pour over it a quarter of a pint of boiling sjTup flavoured with lemon-rind and cinnamon, stir all together untn the mixture is nearly cold, then add two table-spoonfuls of cream, a few drops of vanilla essence, and a dessert-spoonful of brandy. Time to boil the pudding, thi-ee hours and a half. Probable cost, with the sauce. Is. 8d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Lady Abbess' Puffs. — Blanch six ounces of Jordan almonds. Throw them into cold water as they are done, and afterwards wipe them dry and pound them in a mortar, adding a few di'ops of rose or orange-flower water every now and then to prevent them oiling. Mix with them a quarter of a pound of finely-sifted loaf sugar and half an ounco of fresh butter. Pound to a smooth paste. Spread this evenly and thinly on small buttered patty-pans, and bake in a very slow oven until the puft's are crisp. Before serving, put a littleLAD ( 862 ) LAM jam into each, and cover it with whipped croam. Tlio puffs sliould bo cold boforo tlio jam IS put into tliciu. Time to buko, an liour or more. I'loliiible coat, 8d. Sufficient for a dozen and a lialf pull's. Ladv Fingers.—Wliisk four fresh ef,'f,'s thoroughly, tlu^ whites and tho yokes separately. Mi.\ smootlily with tiio yolks three ounces ()f powdered sunar and three ounces of llour, add the whites, aud afterwards a quarter of a'pint of_ rose-wafer. Beat all togetlier for some minutes. ILavo ready a well-buttered baking- tin, form tlio paste upon it with a spoon in " lingers," three inches long and three-quarters of an inch wide, sift a little powdered sugar over them, let them stand five or six minutes to melt the sugar, then put them into a moderate oven, and bake until they are lightly browned. When cool, put them in pairs, and keep them in a tin canister closely covered until wanted for use. Time to bake, about twenty minutes. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for two dozen fingers. Lait Sltcr^ {see Milk, -Sugared, or Lait Sucre). Lamartine's Pudding. — Stew four large apples in a little water, with a small piece of cinnamon, until they aie tender, but un- broken. Take them up, drain them, and beat them with a fork. Let them get cold, then mix with them the yolks of four eggs and the white of one, well beaten, a little pounded sugar, two or three drops of vanilla, two ounces of fresh butter, and three-quarters of a pint of cream or good milk. Line a pie-dish with good puff paste. Pour in the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven. Strew sifted sugar over before serving. Apricots may be substituted for the apples in this recipe. Time to bake, half an hour. Probable cost, when made with milk. Is. Sufficient for four or five persons. Lamb.—House lamb (by which is meant lamb born in the middle of winter, reared under LAMB, JOINTED. Bhelter, and feJ, in a great measure, upon milk) is considered a great deHwicy. It may be ob- tained from Cln i"fcmas to Lady Day. At Easter, g.Ta83 lamb, o* ttuub brought up out of doors, and fed upon grass, comes into season. Like all young auiiiuils, Limb ought to be thoroughly cooked, or it is most unwholesome. Tho joint should not be taken from the fire until tli. gravy drops from it. Lamb is u/sually cut iiit<. quarters, and of these the fore-quarter, which consists of the shoulder (3), tho breast (.0),an(i the neck (4), is considered the best. It should be cooked fresh, and its quahty may be easily tested by tho appearance of the v(;in of th(- neck, which should be ruddy or of a bluiiih colour. It is g(!neriilly roasted, though in very young lamb, the leg, which is frequently Berved by itself, and makes a useful and excellent joint, may be boiled and sent to table with white sauce. Tho hind-quarter, consisting of the leg (1) and loin (2), is better foi- hanging two or three days. As, however, lamb will not keejj woU in unfavourable weather, or for any length of time, it should be examined daily, and the moisture carefully wiped from the joints. In order to ascertain whether or not it is fresh, place the finger between the loin and kidney. Any taint may be easily discovered by the smell. The fat of lamb should be firm and light, the lean a clear faintish white, and also firm. If the fat be yellow and the lean flabby and red, the lamb is of inferior quahty, and wiU not keep. Where economy is a consideration, lamb should not be bought before it is five months old. Lamb (a I'Espagnole).—See Lamb, Cooked whole (sometimes called Lamb a I'Espagnole). Lamb (a la Milanaise). — See Lamb, Breast of. Braised (sometimes called Lamb a la lililan- aise). Lamb and Currant Pie.—Cut about two pounds of the breast of lamb into small, neat pieces. Put them in a pie-dish, and sprinkle over them a desert-spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of pepper, a table-spoonful of finely-minced parsley, a quarter of a nutmeg, grated, and three table-spoonfuls of picked •urrants. Beat two eggs thoroughly, mix with them a wine-glassful of sherry, and pour them over the meat. Line the edges of the dish with a good crust, cover with the same, and bake in a moderate oven. A httle wliite wine and sugar should be sent to table -with this pie. Time, an hour and a half to bake. Probable cost, 2s. 8d., exclusive of the wine. Sufficient for four or five persons. Lamb (au Bechamel).—See Lamb, Leg of Stewed with Bechamel, or AVhite Sauce. Lamb, Baked, and Rosemary.— Butter a baking-dish, and lay in it one or two sprigs of rosemary and two bay-leaves. Place upon these any joint of lamb weighing four or five pounds, first seasoning it with pepper and salt. Put a quarter of a pint of stock at the bottom of the pan, and place two ounces of fresh butter, divided into small pieces, hero and there upon the meat. Put the dish in a moderate oven, baste the lamb frequently, and when done enough, skim the fat fi-om the gravy, and serve it strained over tho joint. Time to bake, about an hour. Probable cost, 38. 6d. Suffi- cient for half a dozen persoiiis.LAM LAM ( 353 ) Lamb, Bladebone of, Broiled — Tako a cold slioulder of lamb weighing trom two to three pounds, and score the flesh to the bones in squai-es about an inch apart. Make a powder by mixing together a tea-spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of pepper, and half a tea- spoonful of dry mustard, liub this well into the flesh, then place the meat on a hot gridii-on, put it four or five inches above a clear fire, and broil it first on one side and then on the other until it is hot throughout. Place it on a hot dish, brush it over with clarified butter, squeeze the juice of a lemon upon it, and serve as hot as possible. If preferred, the meat can be egged and bread-crumbed before being broiled. Time to broil, about a quarter of an hour. The hot mixture should be rubbed into the joint some hours before it is boiled. Lamb, Boned, Quarter of.—Take the bone from a quarter of lamb, being careful to keep the knife close to the bone, spread over the meat half a pound of veal forcemeat, roll it round securely, skewer it firmly, and bind it with tape. Put it down to a clear fire, and baste liberally, with good beef or mutton fat. Send mint sauce to table with it. Time to roast the lamb, twenty minutes to the pound. Probable cost. Is. Id. per pound. Sufiicient for eight or nine persons. Lamb Brains and Tongue.—Take the tongue from the head after it has been boiled, and put it into a saucepan with as much cold water as will cover it. Wash the brains in lukewarm water, pick the fibres from them, and tie them in a piece of muslin, with a dessert-spoonful of finely-minced parsley, and boil all together for a quarter of an hour. Take out the brains, chop them small, season them with a little pepper and salt, and put them into a saucepan with a quarter of a pint of cream, and half an oimce of fi'esh butter rolled in flour. Stir them over the fire, and let them boil, a minute or two, then skin the tongue, place it on a hot dish, and servo the brains round it. Probable cost, lOd. Suffi- cient for one person. Lamb, Braised.—Bone a shoulder of lamb, fill up the opening with forcemeat, skewer it securely, and braise it for two hours over a slow fire. Serve on spinach or sorrel prepared in the usual way. Probable cost, about Is. Sufficient for four or five persons. Lamb, Breast of, and Peas. — Remove the skin from a breast of lamb, cut away part of the fat, and divide into neat pieces. Dredge a little flour over these, put them into a stewpan with an ounce of fresh butter, and let them remain until they are lightly browned on both sides, then pour over them as much warm water as will cover them ; add a bunch of parsley and a small onion, and simmer gently until the moat is three-parts cooked. Skim off the fat, take out the onion and parsley, and mince the latter finely. Return it to the gravy with a pint and a half of green peas. Add a little pepper and salt, and simmer again until the peas are tender. Place the meat on a hot dish, pour the gravy and pefia over it, and serve as hot as possible. M Time, an hour and a half. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Sufficient for three or four persons. Lamb, Breast of, Braised (sometimes called Lamb a la Milanaise).—Tako the skin from a breast of lamb, and scald it for two or three minutes in boiling water. Drain it, and plunge it at once into cold water. Peel a lemon, cut it into thin slices, lay these on the breast, and afterwards cover it all over with bacon. Put the meat into a braising-pan, pour over it half a pint of nicely-flavcm-ed stock, and let it simmer vciy gently until done enough. Have ready haK a pound of boiled macaroni, put it on a hot dish, place the lamb upon it, and coA-er the whole with half a pint of good brown gxavy. The appearance of the dish will be very much improved if the lamb is glazed. If prefen-cd, the macaroni may be omitted, and spinach served with the lamb. Time to simmer, until tender, from an hour and a half to two houi'S. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Sufficient for three or four persons. Lamb, Breast of. Braised (another way).—Braise a breast of lamb as in the last recipe. When sufficiently cooked, take out the bones, put the meat between two dishes, lay a weight upon the top, and let it remain until cold. Cut it into neat pieces, the size and shape of cutlets. Let these be heated in some of the liquid in which the meat was braised, glaze them, and place them in a circle on a dish, with a quart of fine green peas in the centre, prepared as follows:—Put a quart of peas into a bowl, with as much cold water as will cover them, and two or three ounces of fresh butter. Eub them together with the fingers, until they ai'e weU covered with butter, then di-ain off the water, and put the peas into a stewpan with a small slice of ham, a bunch of parsley, two or thi-ee green onions, half a tea-spoonfiil of salt, and two tea-spoonfuls of powdered loaf sugar. Stew them gently over the fire, and moisten them, if necessary, with a little of the boiling gravy. When they are nearly done, remove the ham, parsley, and onions, and let them boil until they are tender, and no liquid remains. Work smoothly together half an ounce of butter and a tea-spoonful of flour. Put this to the boiling peas. Shake the sauce- pan over the fire until the peas are well thickened, then serve immediately. Time, an hour and a half, or more, to braise the lamb; about thirty minutes to stew the peas. Pro- bable cost of lamb, lOd. per pound. Sufficient for three or four persons. Lamb, Breast of. Broiled.—Trim a breast of lamb, and put it into a stewpan with as much stock as will just cover it. Add a bunch of sweet herbs and an onion stuck -with one or two cloves, and let it simmer very gently until it is sufficiently tender to remove the bones, then take these out. Sprinkle a Little pepper and salt over the meat, brusli it over twice with egg and broad-crumbs, to which, if liked, a little chopped parsley can be added, or a tea-spoonful of powdered herbs, and broil it over a clear fire. "Wlien it is brightly browned on one side, turn it carefully to brown the other ; serve on a hot dish, and send the followingLAM LAM \ 354 ) sauce to table in a tureon :—Put two ounces of loaf sugar and a quarter of a pint of viuogai- into a saucepan, lot them simmer until the sugar is dissolved, then add a pinch of cayenne, and a wine-glassful of cLirot. Sinuner a quarter of an hour, and servo hot. Time, about an hour and a half to simmer the lamb : it should bo broiled until brightly browned on both sides. Sufficient for three or fom- per- sons. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Lamb, Breast of, Broiled (another way).—Take two breasts of lamb, trim them neatly, remove the tendons, and tie the joints to- gether. Simmer them gently, as in the last recipe, until the bones can be drawn out easily, then remove these, sprinkle salt and popper over the meat, and place it between two dishes. Put a weight on the top, and let it remain until cold. When wanted for use, cut the meat into neat pieces, brush these Over twice with egg and bread-crumbs, and broil them over a clear fire until brightly browned on both sides. Dish them neatly, and send brown gravy and tomato or piquant sauce to table with them. Time, eight or ten minutes to broil the lamb. Suffi- cient for four or five persons. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Lamb, Breast of, Collared,—Take a fine breast of lamb, remove the bones and gristle, and the outside skin, and lay it flat on the table. Strew a little salt and pepper over it, and spread upon it a mixture made as fol- lows :—Wash and bone five anchovies, pound them in a mortar, and with them the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs; add the thin rind of half a lemon, finely miaced, half a tea-spoonful of powdered mace, the eighth of a nutmeg, grated, six ounces of bread-crumbs, and a table- spoonful of minced parsley, llix thoroughly. Roll the meat round and round, tie it in a cloth, and bind it securely with tape. Boil it gently. When done enough, place the lamb imder a weight, and do not remove the tapes until quite cold. Time to boil, twenty minutes for every pound. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Suffi- cient for five or six persons. Lamb, Breast of, Rolled.—Take the bones out of a breast of lamb, being careful not to cut the upper skin. Put them into a saucepan with an onion stuck with one clove, and a pint of stock or water. Let them simmer gently for gravy. JMake a quarter of a pound of good veal forcemeat, spread this upon the under side of the breast, then roll it round and round, and skewer it firmly and neatly. Put three ounces of fresh butter into a saucepan, let it melt, then put in the breast of veal, and brown it brightly and equally all over. ^VTaen sufficiently coloured, strain the gi'avy from the bones upon it, add a little pepper and salt, cover the saucepan closely, and simmer gently until the meat is tender. A spoonful of brown- ing may be added, if required. Spinach or green peas may bo served with this dish. Time to stew, from one and a half to two hours, according to the size. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Sufficient for three or four persons. Lamb^ Breast of. Stewed.—Kemove the skin /rom a breast of lamb, cut the meat into neat pieces, strew a little popj^-r and suit over these, place them in a stowpan with af» much weak stock as will cover them, and lot them simmer very gently until tender. Drain the meat, and place it on a hot dish. Thicken tho gravy with a little flour and butter, add a glass of sherry or any other light wine, and boil for two or three minutes longer. Stewed mushrooms or cucumljors are a great imijrove. ment to this disli. Time to stew, about an hour. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Sulii- cient for three or four persons. Lamb Chops and Potatoes.—Egg and bread-crumb some neatly-trimmed kmb chops, and fry them in tho usual way {nce Lamb Chops, Fried). For haK a dozen chops jtre- pare a pound and a half of potatoes. Boil and drain them, and beat them up with a fork, then add a quai-ter of a pint of boiling broth, or, failing this, milk. Beat well until quite smooth, pass the potatoes through a sieve, put them into a saucepan with two ounces of fresh butter, and stir briskly until they are quite hot. PUe the potatoes high in the centre of a hot dish, and place the chops round them in an upright posi- tion, one overlapping the other. Time, ten or fifteen minutes to fry the chops; forty minutes to prepare the potatoes. Probable cost of chops. Is. per pound. Sufficient for three or four persons. Lamb Chops. Broiled.—Cut the chops about half an incn thick, tiim them neatly, flatten them, remove the superfluous fat, place them on a hot giidii'on over a clear fire, and let them remain until brightly bro\viied on both sides, turning them with steak-tongs when requii-ed. Season them with pepper and salt, and serve as hot as possible. Gamish with parsley. Mashed potatoes, asparagus, green peas, or spinach are usually served ^vith lamb chops. -Time, eight or nine minutes to broil. Sufficient, half a dozen chops for two or three persons. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Lamb Chops, Fried.—Cut a loin or neck of lamb into chops from half to three- quarters of an inch in thickness. Dip each one into beaten egg, and afterwards into bread- crumbs, flavoured as follows:—Mix three ounces of finely-grated bread-crum*bs with a salt-spoon- ful of salt, half a salt-spoonful of pepper, a table-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley, and a quarter of a tea-spoonful of finely-minced lemon-rind. Fry- the chops in good dripping imtQ lightly browned on both sides. Serv-e on a hot dish, and garnish with slices of lemon or crisped parsley. Time to fry, ten to fifteen minutes. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Sufficient, half a dozen chops for two or three persons. Lamb Chops, Fried,with Parmesan. —Take some lamb chops from the loin or neck, as in tho last recipe. ]\Iix the bread-crumbs with a little gratec* Parmesan cheese, and dip these first into clarified butter and bread- crumbs, and afterwards into beaten egg and bread-crumbs. Fry tho chops as before imtil they are lightly browned on both sides, dish them in a circle, and send tomato .sauce to table in a tureen. Time, ten to fifteen minutes.C 355 ) LAM LAM Probable cost, Is. per pound. Sufficient, half a dozen chops for two or thi-eo persons. Lamb Chops with. Cucumber Sauce. —Dip the chops in beiiten ogg and bread- crumbs, and fry them {see Lamb Chops, Fried). When nicely 'browned, aiTange them in a cii-ele on a hot dish, and put in the centre a sauce prepiu-ed as follows :—Peel a young fresh cucumber, and cut it into dice; strew a little pepper and salt over these. Melt three or four ounces of butter in a saucepan, put in the cucumber, cover it closely, and place it on a moderate fire, shaking the pan frequently, to prevent sticking. When it is steamed until the pieces of cucumber are quite tender, but un- broken, serve them in the centre of the dish. Time, eight or nine minutes to boil the chops; about twenty ndnutes to stew the cucumber. Lamb Chops with Herbs.—Cut some chops from the loin or neck of lamb. Trim them neatly, and dip them first into clarified butter, and afterwards into a mixture made of equal quantities of chives and parsley. Fry them in hot fat until they arc nicely browned, or broil them over a clear fire, and serve them on a hot dish, garnished with crisped parsley. The following sauce may be sent to table -wdth them:—Take a sprig of thyme, two sprigs of parsley, and three or four leaves of tarragon. Strip the leaves from the stalks, wash them, and chop them small. Mix them smoothly with a piece of butter the size of an egg and a dessert-spoonful of flour, and pour over them half a pint of boiling gravy. Simmer four or five minutes over the fire, and rub out any lumps that may form. Season with a little salt and pepper, if required; add a table- spoonful of strained lemon-juice, and stir the sauce briskly o£E the fire into the weU-beat^n yolk of an egg. Time, ten or fifteen minutes to cook the chops; a quarter of an hour to prepare the gravy. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Sufficient, half a dozen chops for thiee persons. Lamb, Cold (en Blanquette). — Take some cold lamb, mince it finely, and season it with a little salt and pepper. Supposing there to be a pound and a half of cold lamb, divide six large mushrooms into slices. Fry these in three ormces of butter for five minutes, then pour over them half a pint of good veal stock, mixed smoothly with a tea-spoonful of flour, and simmer gently for half an hour. Now add the minced lamb, and the well-beaten yolks of two eggs mixed with four table-spoonfuls of cream. Let these heat very gently, stirring all the time. In ten minutes the "lamb A\-ill be ready to serve. Garnish the dish with slices of lemon. Probable cost. Is., exclusive of the cold lamb. Sufficient for three or four persons. Lamb, Cold Roast, Stew of.—Cold roast lamb is so very nice with a little mint sauce and mashed potatoes that it seems a pity to warm it up. When it is preferred hot, how- ever, the following is an excellent method of preparing it;—Cut the cold meat into thin slices, trim these neatly, and season them rather highly with pepper and a little salt. Dip each piece in finely -grated bread-crumbs which have been moistenfti, ji gravy, and strew over them a spoonful or two of finely-minced jiickles, such as gherkins, walnuts, &c. Pour over tho whole two table - spoonfuls of pickle vinegar and four table-spoonfuls of the gravj' of the meat. Put the dish in the oven, and let it remain until quite hot. Garnish with browned potato balls. Serve the meat in the dish in which it was heated, which may be placed in another covered with a napkin. Time, about half an hour to heat. Probable cost, 4d., exclusive of the cold meat. Sufficient, two pounds of cold roast meat for three or four persons. Lamb, Cooked Whole (sometimes called Lamb a I'Espagnole).—On the Continent lambs are occasionally roasted entire, something like sucking pigs, and are very delicate and good. It is evident that for this the animal must be very yoimg, not more than five or six weeks old. The only preparation required is to remove the skm, take out the fry, and cut off the feet; then cover the lamb with slices of bacon fastened on with small string, put it down to a clear fire, and let it remain imtil done enough. Take the bacon off about a quarter of an hoiu' before the lamb is taken up, so that it may browTi, and take care that it is equally cooked all over. Squeeze the juice of a lemon over it before serAong, and send bread sauce and brown giavy to table in a tureen. Time to roast, two hours and a half or three hours. Probable cost uncertain, lambs suitable for this dish being seldom offered for sale. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Lamb Cutlets.—Take the best end of a well-hung neck of lamb. Saw it ofl: two or three inches from the t* p of the bones, leaving the cutlets about four inches long. Scrape off the meat from the end of the bone, so as to leave an inch quite bare. Chop oft" the thick part of the chine bone, and pare away the flat bones which adhere to the meat and spoil the shape. Flatten the cutlets with a cutlet bat. A butcher will always shape the cutlets if requested to do so. They may be either broiled plainly or egged, bread-crumbed, and fried. Green peas, asparagus, spinach, and mashed potatoes are all favourite accompaniments of lamb cutlets, and an infinite variety of sauces may be served with them. The sauce frequenth" givcs its name to the dish, as Cutlets a la Poulette, Cutlets a. la Eobert, wliich names simply mean cutlets served with Robert or Poulette sauce. There is no occasion for any waste in shaping cutlets, as the bones can be stewed down for gravy and the fat melted .for frying. Lamb Cutlets (a la Daupliine.)—5f# Cutlets, Lamb. Lamb Outlets (a la Princesse.)—iSce Lamb Cutlets, Superlative (sometimes called Lamb Cutlets i\ la Princesse). Lamb Cutlets (a la Robert).—Mince three or four large onions very finely; put thom into a stewpan with three ounces of fresh butter, and brown them lightly over a gentle fire. Shake the pan about to prevent burning. AddLALl LAM I 356 ) tablo-spoonful and a half of vinegar, an'l boil altogether for thvoo or four iiiimitos. Mix a table-spoonful of Hour smoothly with half a pint of good, nieely-llavoured stock ; add those to the vinegar, &c., and simmer gently for a quarter of an hour. Just before serving stir a dessert-spoonful of mixed mustard and a dessert-spoonful of Harvey's sauce in with the rest, and keep the whole quite hot until the cutlets are ready. Trim these neatly, dip them twice, lirst into clariticd butter aud egg- crumbs, and afterwards into beaten egg and bread-crumbs, and fry thorn in the usual way until thoy are lightly browned on both sides. Dish thenv in a circle, with the sauce poured over them. Time, ten or fifteen minutes to fry the cutlets. Probable cost. Is. per pound. Sufficient for throe or four persons. Lamb Cutlets and Spinach. — Pick the stalks from two pounds of spinach and wash it in several waters. Let it drain, then put it into plenty of boiling water, in which about a tablo-spoonful of salt has been thrown, keep pressing it down with a wooden spoon, and let it bon very quickly. Drain and squeeze the water from it, an I chop it very small. Put it into a saucepan with a little salt and popper, one ounce of butter, and two table-spoonfuls or half a gill of thick cream or rich gravy. Stir it without ceasing over the fire with a wooden spoon until it is quite hot throughout, and the moisture is absorbed. Keep it hot until the cutlets are ready. These may be trimmed, egged, bread-crumbed, and broiled or fried in the usual way [sec Lamb Chops, Broiled, and Lamb Chops Fried). Press the spinach into a mould, turn it on a hot dish, and place the cutlets round it in an upright position, one overlapping the other. Time, ten minutes to boU. the spinach. Probable cost, cutlets. Is. per pound ; spinach, 2d. per pound. Sufficient, about two pounds of spinach will be requii-ed for half a dozen chops. Lamb Cutlets, Cold.—AVhen a loin or any other joint of lamb has been under-dressed, it is a good plan to divide it into cutlets of a neat shape and fully thi-ee-quarters of an inch in thickness, to dip these in beaten egg, strew over nicely-flavoui-cd bread-crumbs, and fry or broil them until lightly browned on both sides. As there is a danger that the meat wiU be dry when it is dressed the second time, care should be taken not only to cook the cutlers over a good fire, but also to dip them into a little clarified butter before broiling them. Time, five or six minutes to cook. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Sufficient, half a dozen cutlets for three persons. Lamb Cutlets or Chops Stewed in their own Gravy.—Take a thick iron saucepan—if possible, one sufficiently largo to take all the cutlets in one layer—put a little cold water in it, though not nearly suflicient to cover the cutlets, and after dipping these into cold water, peppering, and afterwards flouring them, put tliom into the pan, place them on a moderate fin;, and let them simmer as gently as possible until they are done enough. Throw a tea-spoonful of salt over them as soon as they begin to Biinmer, and serve all the gravy in the dish witli them. The great secret of stowing cutlets in this way is to let them sinuuer gently. Jf buiiud quickly there will bo no gravy left when tliey are to be taken oli, and the meat will be lurd. Skiui the fat oli carefully before serving. Time to simmer, an hour. Probable cost. Is. per jjound. (Sufficient, half a dozen cutlets for two or tlu-ee persons. Lamb Cutlets, Superlative (some- times called Lamb Cutlets, a la Prinajsse).— Trim and shape some land; cutlets neatly, and fry them plainly Lamb Chops, Piied), lettin- them be rather under-dressed tlrnn otherwis' . When half cold dip each cutlet into some gooil melted butter, flavoui-ed with mushrooms. Plac. them upon ice to set the sauce, and afterwar<Ls egg, bread-crumb, and fry them in the usual way, and serve with asparagus, green peas, or any other vegetables. Good white sauce should h<: sent to table in a tureen. Time, twenty minutes altogether to cook the cutlets—ten minntes each time. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Sufficient, half a dozen for three persons. Lamb Cutlets, Superlative (another way).—Take a table-spoonful of each of the following ingredients, aU finely minced:— Parsley, shallots, mushrooms, and lean ham. Put these into a stewjjan with an ounce of fresh butter, and stir them over the fire for five nrunutes. Add a quarter of a ,pint of sauce, a little pepper and salt, half a tea-spoonful of powdered sugar, a dessert-spoonful of strained lemon-juice, three grates of nntmeg, and the- yolks of two eggs. Stir the sauce over the fire until it thickens, but it must not boil. Par- tially fry the cutlets, as in the last recipe; when nearly cold dip them into the above preparation, and place them upon ice until the sauce is set. Dip the cutlets in egg and afterwards in bread-, crumbs; fry, and serve them -with a puree of spinach or green peas. Time, twenty minutes to fry the cutlets—ten minutes each time The above quantity of sauce is sufficient for a dozen cutlets Probable cost. Is. per pound. Lambj Fore Quarter of, To Roast. —This joint can scarcely be too fresh when dressed. Eemove the scrag, the shankbone, and the chinebone; and crack the ribs half-way between the edge of the breast and the spine. Lay the meat down to a quick fire, and baste plentifully from the time of its being wanned through to that when it is ready for the table. Like all yoimg meat, lamb should be very thoroughly cooked. About ten minutes before it is taken up dredge a little flour over it, and froth and brown it nicely. A slice of fresh butter, a cut lemon, and a little cayenne should be sent to table, so that when the shoulder is separated from the ribs they may be ready for being laid between the two. Tliis separation is sometimes effected before the joint .is sent to table, but, of course, this must depend upon the wish of the carver. Serve the lamb with a cut paper ruffle on the shankbone, and send a little gravy made from the roast under it. Jlint sauce and salad generally accompany this dish. Time, a fore-quarter of lamb, weighing ten jiounds, will require from two hours to two hours and a half. Tlie weather and theLAM ( 357 ) LAM strength of the fire often cause a difference. Probable cost, lid. per pound. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Lamb, Fore Quarter of, To Boast (another way).—Prepare the joint as m the last recipe. Skewer three or four slices of bacon securely to the outer side, brush tlu-ee ounces of clarified butter over the inner part, and strew upon it a thick covering of finely- grated bread-crumbs, seasoned with pepper and salt, and a httle finely-minced parsley. Cover FOKE QTJARTER OF LAMB. the whole with a large sheet of buttered paper, and lay the lamb down to a clear even fire. When nearly done, remove the paper and bacon, baste the meat with yolk of egg mixed with the gravy, throw some more bread-cnnnbs over it, and let it remain until nicely browned^ Squeeze the juice of a lemon over it before serving, and send mint sauce to table with it. Time, from two hours to two hours and a half. Probable cost, lid. per pound. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Lamb, Fricandeau of.—Take a brea^st of lamb, and lard it in the usual way {see Lard, To), with three strips of fat bacon. Put it into a ste.'wpan with two bunches of parsley, a small bunch of thyme and marjoram, a small bunch of green onions, six or eight pepper- corns, a bay-leaf, one or two slices of fat bacon, and as much boUing water as will barely cover the meat. Simmer gently for half an hour; then take it out, and boil the gravy quickly until it is reduced to one half. Put the meat back again, .skim the fat carefully from the liquid, and simmer gently once more until a glaze is seen on the top of the moat. Drain it upon a dish, and keep it hot until the sauce is reduced to a glaze. Brush the lamb over with two or three coats of this, and serve it upon dressed vege- tables, such as sorrel, spinach, or green peas. Time, from three to four hours. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Sufficient for three or four persons. Lamb, Fricassee of.—Take a breast of lamb, cut it into small pieces about an inch and a half square, season these with a little pepper and salt, and put them into a stewpan with an onion stuck with four cloves, a sprig of basil, two bay-leaves, and three ounces of fresh butter. Cover the saucopfin closely, and let it steam gently for half an hour, shaking it occasionally to prevent sticking. Pour over it a pint of boiling water, cover closely once more, and iimmcr for an hour. At the end of that time strain the Kiuce, and thicken it with a table- spoonful of flour, mixed smoothly with a little water; stir into it three dessert-spoonfuls of chopped capers; boil all two or three minutes longer, and serve on a hot dish. Garnish with parsley and slices of lemon. Time to stew about an hour and a half. Probable cost lOd. per pound. Sufficient for three or foux persons. Lamb, Hind Quarter of.—Take a hind-quarter of lamb, saw o£E the knuckle- bone, and wrap the joint in oiled or buttered paper. Put the roasting hook through the shank end, and place the joint before a clear fire. Baste it frequently with good dripping. Twenty minutes before it is taken down dredge a little flour over it, brown it nicely, and place it on a hot dish, with two or three table- spoonfuls of good gravy with it, and the rest in a tureen. Mint sauce should always accom- pany roast lamb. A cut lemon should be sent to table with this joint, and an empty dish upon which the carver may place the leg when it is severed from the loin. Time, two honrs and a half, or twenty minutes to each pound, and twenty minutes over. Young white meat must be thoroughly cooked. Probable cost, 1 Id. per pound. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Lamb, Larded.—Lard the surface of a leg of lamb with thin slices of fat bacon {see Lard, To), cover it with buttered paper, and put it down to an even fire. Half an hour before it is done enough take off the paper, and sprinkle finely-grated bread-crumbs, seasoned with a little salt, pepper, and pounded mace over it, and let it remain until it is brightly broAvned. Squeeze the juice of a lemon over it before serving, and send mint sauce to table. Time to roast, twenty minutes for each pound, and twenty minutes over. Sufficient for four or five persons. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Lamb, Leg of (a la Venison). A German recipe.—Take six cloves, six jmiipcr-berries, and a small tea-spoonful of pepper. Pound these ingredients to a fine powder, then mix with them the following herbs, finely minced:— Four leaves of tarragon, a sprig of green rosemar)', and a sprig of marjoram; add four shallots," and rub the whole into a well-hung leg of lamb weighing about five pounds. Lay the meat in a deep dish, pour over it four table- spoonfids of claret mixed with four table-spoon- fuls of vinegar. Let it lie in this pickle for three days, and turn it every day. At the end of that time wipe it with a dry cloth to free it from the herbs, sprinkle some salt over it, and bake in a moderate oven. Baste the meat liberally, while cooking, with the liquid in which it was soaked, boiled up with half a pint of good stock. Unless this is attended to it will be very dry. Ten mioutes before the meat is taken up, pour a cupful of new milk into the pan, and rub it well into the brown crusting which will have formed at the side of the pan, and when the gravy boils pour it boil- ing-hot upon the well-beaten yolk of an egg. Pour a little of this sauce into the dish, and serve the rest in a tureen. Garnish with slicesLAM ( 358 ) LAM of lomon and a little parsluy. A saddle or a shoulder of lamb may bo cuokod in the saiui; way. Time to bake, an Ikjuv and a }ialf. Pro- bablo cost, Is. per pound. Suliiciout for iive or aix persons. Lamb, Leg of, Boiled.—Put a plump le<? of lamb into as mufh boiling- watur aa will barely coyer it. Lot it boil a few minutes, then add a little cold water; draw the pan to tlio side of the tire, remove the scum carefully as it rises, and afterwards ahmncv ijentli/ until done enough. A tea-spoonful of salt should bo thrown into the water when the lamb is half cooked. Place the moat on a hot dish, garnish it with tufts of boiled cauliHowor or carrots, and send caper sauce to table with it—a little poured over the joint, and the rest in a tureen. The loin may be cut into steaks, fried, and served round garnished with parsley. Time to boil, a quarter of an hour for each pound, counting from the time the water boils the second time. Pro- bable cost, Is. per pound. Sufficient for five or six persons. Lamb, Leg of, Roast.—Put the lamb down to a clear, even fire. Baste it plentifully with good dripping, and twenty minutes before it is ready to serve, bring it nearer to the fire to brown it nicely. Place the lamb on a hot dish, pour over it a small quantity of gravy made from the contents of the dripping-pan, and 36nd a little more to table in a tureen. Jilint sauce and green peas, or boiled cauli- flower, usually accompany this dish. Time to roast, twenty minutes to the pound. Pro- bable cost. Is. per pound. Sufficient for five or six persons. Lamb, Leg of, Stewed.—Put a leg of lamb, weighing about five pounds, into a deep baking-pan with two turnips, a carrot, a leek, at clove of garlic, three tea-spoonfuls of salt, half a tea-spoonful of cayenne pepper, and as much water as will cover it. Put it in a moderate oven, and let it remain for an hour after it begins to simmer. At the end of that time, put with it a pint of young green peas, a sprig of mint, and a small lump of sugar, and let it stew half an hour longer. Serve it on a hot dish, with the vegetables round it, a little of the gravy poured over, and more in a tureen. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Suffi- cient for five or six persons. Lamb, Leg of. Stewed, with Bechamel, or White Sauce.—Put a leg of lamb into a convenient-sized stewpan, and with it two or three veal-bones. Cover it with boiling water, bring it gently again to the boil, and remove the scum carefully as it rises. Add two large carrots, two bunches of parsley, one bunch of thyme, and half a dozen peppercorns, and simmer very gently for an hour and a half. Take half a pint of the gr&ry, and mix it with half a pint of good cream. Add a table-spoonf id of flour smoothly mixed with a little water, a bunch of parsley, a dozen small mushrooms, and a tea-spoonful of salt, and boil softly for an hour. Put the lamb on a liot dish, strain the bechamel over it, and garnish with slices of lemon and parsley. JJoUed cauliflower or carrots are an excellent accompaniment to tliis dish. Probable co-it, Is. per pound. Sufficient for five persomi. Lamb, Liver of, To Fry.—Soak the liver in c(dd water for half an hour. Cut it into tliin slices, and boil tfiese for ten minutes. Place theni in a dry cloth to drain ott' tiie water, strew a little pepper on them, dredge flour over them, and fry in hot fat until they are brightly browned. If the flavour is liked, an onion linely minced may be fried with them, or a few rashers of bacun. Garnish with parsley, and send good brown gravy to table with the meat. Time, ten minutes to boil, eight minutes to fry. Probable cost, 8d. per pound. Sufficient, one pound for two or three persons. Lamb, Loin of. Braised.—Take a loin of lamb, skewer down the flap, and cover it all over with slices of fat bacon. Put it into a braising-pan, or, failing this, a saucepan, as nearly as possible its own size, with a closely- fitting lid, and pour over it a pint of good stock. Add half a dozen young carrots, a bunch of young onions, a blade of mace, two bunches of parsley, one bunch of thyme, a tea- spoonful of salt, and three or four peppercorns. Simmer very gently until the meat is done enough. Take it out, drain and dry it, reduce the sauce to a glaze, and brush this over the meat. Serve the lamb on a hot dish, and with it some green peas, spinach, or asparagus. Time, two hours. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Sufficient for four or five persons. Lamb, Loin of. Stewed—Take a loin of lamb, skewer down the flap, and put it into a saucepan, nearly its own size, with half a pint of good unseasoned stock, three ounces of butter, a dessert-spoonful of chopped mint- leaves, the strained juice of half a lemon, half a tea-spoonful of salt, and a quarter of a tea- spoonful of pepper. Cover the pan closely, and simmer gently for an hour and a half. Take out the meat, boil the sauce quickly for a few minutes, brown the meat before the fire or on the gridiron, pour the sauce over it, and serve as hot as possible. The foUo-wTng sauce may be sent to table with it:—Take one pound- weight of the white part only of some onions, and chop them small; then put them into a saucepan -with three oimces of fresh butter, and shake the pan every now and then over the fire until the onions are quite soft. Pour over them half a pint of good stock nicely seasoned, mix them thoroughly, then pass the whole through a hair sieve; let it boil up once more, add four table-spoonfuls of boiling cream, and serve at once. The sauce must not boil after the cream is added. Loin of lamb is very good if sim- mered softly with the butter only. It should be turned over when it is half done, and will require from half an hour to three-quarters of an hour longer than if the broth, &c., wore added. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Suffi- cient for five or six persons. Lamb, Neck of, Boiled.—Pbm.ffG a nook of lamb into as much boUmg water as will barely cover it Let it boil for five; 359 ) LAM LAM minutes, then pour in a small cupful of cold water, di-aw it to the side of the fire, remove the scum as it rises, and simmer very gently for one horn-. Put the lamb on a hot dish, pour over it half a pint of parsley sauce, and serve as hot as possible. Turnips and carrots should be sent to table with it. Probable cost, 9d. per pound. Sufficient for three persons. Lamb Pie.—A lamb pie may bo made either of the neck, breast, or loin of lamb, and of these the breast will be found to be much the best. Take about two pounds of meat, cut it up into neat pieces, and sprinkle over these a dessert-spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of white pepper, and a tea-spoonful of finely- miuced parsley. Put them in a pie-dish, take out some of the bones to stew down for gravy, and pour over them half a quarter of a pint of cold water. Line the edges of the dish with a good crust, cover it with the same, and bake in a moderate oven. When the pie is sufficiently cooked, pour in a little good stock or meat jelly. Lamb pie is usually eaten cold. Time to bake, an hour and a half. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Lamb Pudding.—Line a shallow, thick- rimmed basin with pastry about half an inch in thickness, and leave it half an inch over the edge. Take the large bones out of two pounds of a breast of lamb, cut it into convenient-sized pieces; season these lightly with pepper and salt, place them in layers in the pudding, and strew a table-spoonful of loose veal, stuffing over each layer. Put about a gill of water or mutton broth over the whole, lay a pastry cover on the top, moisten the edge, and draw it over carefully. Dip a pudding-cloth into j boiling water, dredge a little flour over, tie the basin rather loosely in it, plunge it into boiling water, and boil from two to three hours. Loc it stand two or three minutes before being turned out. .Place it on a hot dish, pour half a pint of parsley sauce over it, and serve at once. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for four or five persons. Lamb Ragout, with Sorrel (a German recipe).—Take two poimds of the breast of lamb, put it into a saucepan with as much cold water as -will cover it, and let it simmer gently for a few minutes. Take it up, drain it, and cut it into small pieces about two inches square. Slice an onion, and put it into a stewpan with two ounces of butter, a carrot, a stick of celerj'-, a sprig of parsley, another of basil, and two cloves. Let these steam softly for five or six minutes; dredge a table-spoonful of flour over them, and add half a pint of boiling mutton gravy, a tea-spoonful of salt, and half a tea- spoonful of pepper, and simmer until the sauce is as thick and smooth as cream. Put the pieces of lamb into another stewpan, strain the sauce over them, and let them remain over a gentle fire until the meat is quite tender. Beat the y<,^ks of two eggs, mix them -with a table-spoon- ful of sour cream, and stir gently into the eauce, first taking out the meat and placing it on one side. Pick the stems from two or three handfuls of sorrel-leaves; wash and drain them, and put thom into a closely-covered stewpan with two ounces of butter, and let them steam until soft; mix them with the sauce. When ready to serve, heat all together gently over the fire; the sauce must not be allowed to boil after the eggs are added. Time, altogether, an hour and a half. Probable cost of lamb, 9d. per poimd. Sufficient for throe persons. Lamb, Roll of.—Take three pounds of lean lamb, and mince it very finely with a pound of fat bacon. Mix with it a tea-spoonful of white pepper, the grated rind of a lemon, the eighth of a nutmeg, gi-ated, a finely-minced, shallot, half a tea-spoonful of powdered thyme, and salt according to taste. The quantity of salt will depend upon the condition of the bacon. When thoroughly mixed, roll the seasoned meat into a neat shape, something like a roly-poly pudding; cover it with a thick fold of buttered paper, and place over this a coarse crust made of flom- and water. Put it in a moderate oven, and when cooked enough, remove the paste and paper, and serve the roll of lamb on a hot dish, with tomato or cucumber sauce round it, and green peas, spinach, or asjjaragus as an accompaniment. Time, two hours to bake. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Lamb, Saddle of.—A saddle of lamb is an elegant and excellent joint for a small party. Cover it with buttered paper, and lay it down to a clear fire. Baste it well, and when nearly cooked enough, remove the paper, dredge a little flour over it, and baste it again i»til it is nicely browned. Mint sauce should be sent to table with it, and green peas, spinach, catili- flowers, or potatoes are very suitable as accom- paniments. Time to roast, about two hours or more, according to the size of the joint. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Lamb, Saddle of (a la Venison).—This may be cooked in the way already described for leg of lamb {see Lamb, Leg of, a la Veni- son). Lamb, Saddle of, Boned, Boiled, and Braised.—Take all the bones from a saddle of lamb—if possible, without injuring the upper part of the skin. Lay the meat on the table, skin downwards, and spread over it a pound of good veal forcemeat. Roll it roimd and round, bind it securely, with plenty of tape, skewer slices of fat bacon over it, and put it into a braising-pan, with a pint and a half of white stock, three carrots, two onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, two or three sticks of celery, and a dozen peppercorns. Sinmier gently for an hour and a half. Take out the meat, drain it, and, without remo^^ng the tajie, place it between two dishes; put a heavy weig'nt upon the top, and let it remain until it is quite cold and firm. Cover it with a coating of white sauce; let this stiffen, then brush the roll over with beaten egg, and cover it with light bread-raspings mixed with a tea-spoonful of grated Pai-mesan. Put the saddle in a moderate oven half an hour before it is wanted, that it may be heated through, and serve it on a hot dish. Garnish with dressed vegetables. Instead of being egged and bread-crumbed, the saddle may, after pressing, be heated in a little of the stockLAM ( 360 ) LAM in which it was cooked, and served with drossod vogotjiblos and Allcmando sauce. Probable cost, Is. per pound. iSuIliuiont for nine or ton persons. Lamb, Sauce for,—^lint sauce is usually served wilh lamb. To mako it:—Strip tho leaves from some fresh young mint, wash and dry them well, and chop thom as finely as pos- sible. Put thom into a tureen, and cover them Avith powdered sugar in tho proportion of a table-spoonful of sugar to one and a half of ^nint. Let these remain for half an hour, then pour over them throe table-spoonfuls of vinegar. If after a trial tliia sauce is found to be too sweet, a less proportion of sugar can bo used; but it has been very generally approved when prepared as above. The vinegar is sometimes strained from the mint-leaves before being sent to table. Time, a few minutes to prepare. Probable cost, 3d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Lamb, Shoulder of.—Put a shoulder of lanab down to a clear fire, and baste it liberally while roasting. A quarter of an hour before it is taken up dredge a little flour over it, sprinkle a tea-spoonful of salt upon it, and baste it with a little butter until it is nicely browned. Send a spoonful or two of the gravj' made from the joint in the dish with it, and the rest in a tureen. Mint sauce and green peas, salad, or ■potatoes generally accompany this dish. Time to roast,^ eighteen minutes for every pound. Probable cost, lOd. or Is. per pound. Sufficient for four or five persons. Lamb, Shoulder of (a la Venison).— The same method is to be followed as for leg of lamb {see Lamb, Leg of, a la Venison). Lamb, Shoulder of, Grilled,—Take a shoulder of lamb, plunge it into, boiling water, let it boil three or four minutes, then draw it to the side of the fire and simmer it gently for three-quarters of an hour. Take it up, score it nearly to the bone in squares an inch apart, brush it over with the yolk of an egg, and sprinkle bread-crumbs upon it which have been seasoned with a tea-spoonful of salt and half a tea-spoonful of pepper, and flavoured with a table-spoonful of dried herbs, of which two parts should be parsley, one thyme, and one marjoram. Broil the meat over a clear fire \intil it is lightly browned, and send the following sauce to table with it:—Mix half a salt-spoonful of cayenne ■with four ounces of pounded sugar. Add half a pint of white vinegr.r, and simmer over the fire until the sugar is dissolved. Add a glass of claret, and simmer again for a quarter of an hour. Serve very hot in a tureen. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Sufficient for four or five persons. Lamb, Shoulder of, Stuffed and Braised.—Take a shoulder of lamb, remove the bladebone without injuring the outer skin, but leave in the shankbone. Fill the cavity from which the bone has "been removed with good veal forcemeat. Sprinkle the inner surface with a little salt, popper, and grated nutmeg, and draw together the edges of the shoulder with some strong thread. Put tho lamb into a braising-pan with slices of fat bacon under and above it. Put with it twc onions, throe or four sticks of celery, a bunch of savoury herbs, and a pint and a liaU' of white stock. Braise the bimlj for two houi-s over a slow fire. Take it u]), drain it, boil thc gravy down quickly, and glaze the meat. After glazing, servo with either cucumber, tomato, or sorrel sauce. Probable cost, lOd. or Is. per pound. Sufficient for four or five persons. Lamb, Shoulder of, with TruflSes. —Take two shoulders of liiinb, bone aud trim them neatly, and spiiukle over each a tea- spoonful of salt, lialf a tea-spoonful of j)epper, a quarter of a nutmeg grated, and two truffles cut into thin slices. Put the two shoulders togethei, press them closely, and tie them round securely with string. Place some slices of fat bacon at the bottom of a convenient-sized saucepan; put the meat upon this, and then some more slices on the top; add two bunches of parsley, a very small bunch of thyme, three carrots, two onions, a tea-spoonful of salt, half a dozen peppercorns, and a pint and a half of good stock. Cover the pan closely, and simmer verj' gently for three hours. At the end of that time take out the meat, remove the string, place it on a hot dish, boil the gravy quickly down to the consistence of sauce, and strain it over the lamb. Garnish with slices of lemon, and serve as hot as possible. If truffles cannot be easily procured, they may be omitted, and the lamb cooked in the same way without them. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Sufficient for. six or seven persons. Lamb Steaks, Brown.—Flatten the steaks, dip them into beaten egg, and after- wards into finely-grated bread-cruml3s flavoured and seasoned as follows:—With fom- heaped table-spoonfids of bread-crmnbs mix half a tea-spoonful of salt, quai'ter of a tea-spoonful of pepper, the eighth of a small nutmeg, grated, a table-spoonful of finely-minced parsley, and the thin rind o. a quarter of a lemon chopped as small as possible. Fry the chops in hot fat, thicken half a pint of nicelj'-seasoned gravy with a lump of butter rolled in flour, and add a glass of port and half a dozen stewed mush- rooms. The latter may be omitted. Serve the steaks on a hot dish, pour the sauce into the centre, and garnish with fried sippets, or, if pre- ferred, pickled gherkins thinly sliced. Send green peas or stewed cucumbers to table witli these. Time, ten minutes to fry the steaks. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Sufficient, half a dozen for three persons. Lamb Steaks Ragout.—Take two pounds of lamb steaks, strew a little white pepper and powdered mace over them, and put them into a saucepan with a quarter of a pint of liquid, half of which should be milk and half white stock. Let them simmer as softly as possible, •without ceasing, for an hour and a quarter, or until tender. Just before sers-ing mix a tea-spoonful of mushroom-powder and a tea-spoonful of flour verv smoothly with a table-spoonful of cold milk. ' Stir this to tho sauce, add a salt-spoonful of salt, a wine- glassful of boiling cream, and half a dozen white mushrooms ready'stewed: serve imme- diately. Great care must bo taken in preparing( 3G1 ) LAM LAM this dish that the meat is very gently simmered. If it is allowed to boil quickly it will be hard, dry, and impalatable. When gently simmered it is excellent. Probable cost, lOd. per poimd. Sufficient for three or four persons. Lamb, Stewed, with. Mushrooms- Take the bones from a breast of lamb, season the meat with a little pepper and salt, and fry it in hot fat until it is lightly browTied on both sides. Take it up, drain it from the fat, and put it into a stewpan with three or four thin slices of fat bacon, and as much white stock as will barely cover it. Add a pound of button- mushrooms, a dessert-spoonful of finely-minced parsley, five or six chives, a tea-spoonful of salt, and six peppercorns. Let the liquid boil up, then draw the pan to the side of the fire, and stew gently for an hour and a half. Take the lamb up, place it on a hot dish, squeeze the jviice of a lemon over it, and strain the sauce to serve with it, first taking out the mushrooms to place roimd the meat. If preferred, half a dozen black truffles cut into slices may be sub- stituted for the mushrooms. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Sufficient for three or four persons. Lamb Stewed with Peas.—Take a breast or loin of lamb, weighing about two pounds. Cut it into neat chops, season them with a tea-spoonful of salt, and half a tea- spoonful of white pepper, and dredge a little flour over them. Put a piece of butter, the size of a walnut, into a frying-pan. Let it dis- solve, then put in the chops, and let them re- main until lightly browned on both sides. Pour away the fat, add thi-ee-quarters of a pint of imseasoned boiling stock, a cos lettuce cut in long strips, a leaf of tarragon, two shallots finely minced, a tea-spoonful of sifted sugar, half a salt-spoonful of salt, and the eighth of a small nutmeg, grated. Cover the pan closely, and simmer 'gently for a quarter of an houi-. Put a pint of green peas freshlj' shelled into the saucepan, and simmer again until they are tender, which, if they are young, will be in a quarter of an hour. Serve the peas on the dish with the lamb. Time, eight minutes to fry the chops. Probable cost, 3s. Sufficient for four or five persons. Lamb Stones and Sweetbread, To Fricassee.—Soak three sweetbreads in cold water for three or four hours, and change the water once or twice during that time. Wash rind skin some lamb stones, put both them and the sweetbreads into boiling water, and let them boil for ten or fifteen minutes. Throw them into cold water. Cut the lamb stones into slices, press the sweetbreads into shape; if large, they may be divided into halves. Dry them well, dredge a little flour over them, and fry them in boiling fat until they are brightly bro\vned on both sides. A dozen large oysters may be fried with them. Pour off the fat, and add a pint of boiling gravy, half a hundred asparagus-tops cut into small pieces, a salt- spoonful of salt, half a salt-spoonful of pepper, the eighth of a nutmeg, grated, and foui- table- Hpoonfnls of light wine. Simmer very gently for a few minutes. Beat the yolks of three eggs. Draw the gravy to the side of the fire, let it cool for two or three minutes, mix it very gradually with the eggs, pour it back into the saucepan, and stir it until it thickens. It must not boil after the eggs are put in. Serve as hot as possible, and garnish Avith slices of lemon. Probable cost, tmcertain—it varies greatly with the season. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Lamb Stove.— Split a- lamb's head in halves. Wash it thoroughly, blanch it, put it into a stewpan, with as much good stock as will completely cover it, and let it simmer very gently for two hours. Pick and wash three handfuls of spinach, put it with the stew, and add a table-spoonful of finely-minced parsley, two or three green onions, a tea-spoonful of salt, and half a tea-spoonful of pepper. Simmer for twenty minutes longer, and serve all on the same dish. The French stew the fry with the head, and serve the head in the middle, and the fry finely minced round it, the whole being covered with parsley sauce. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for two or three persons. Lamb Sweetbreads, Fried.—Soak three sweetbreads in water for two or three hours, to draw out the blood, then boil them for ten minutes, to set them firm, and throw them into cold water for ten minutes more. Dry them in a soft cloth, and press them between two dishes. Dredge a little flour over them, brush them over with beaten egg, and sprinkle finely-grated.bread-cnmabs upon them, and fry them in bacon-fat or butter. Baste them constantly until brightly browned. A tea-spoonful of bread-raspings, such as are used for hams, may be strewn over the bread-crumbs, to insiire the colour being good. Have ready half a pint of good brown gravy. Stir a glass of sherry into it, to flavour it, and pour this round, not upon, the sweetbreads. Garnish with watercresses. Time, altogether, about half an hoiir, exclusive of the soaking. Suffi- cient for three or four persons. Probable cost, imcertain. Lamb Sweetbreads, Larded.—Soak thi-ee sweetbreads in water for two or three hours, and change the water frequently. Put them into a saucepan, and let them boil for five or six minutes, to make them firm. Take them out, put them into cold water, and lard them closely. Place them in a stewpan, with as much good veal stock as will reach up to the larding, and put with them a sliced carrot, an onion, a stick of celery, and a small piece of butter rolled in flour. Let them sim- mer gently for ten minutes, and baste liberally during the time. Beat an egg, mix it with half a pint of cream, add a dessert-spoonful of finely-minced parsley, and two or three grate? of nutmeg. Take the carrot, onion, and celery out of the sauce, let it cool a minute, then add the egg and cream. If preferred, a quarter of a hund&ed asparagus-tops may be stewed in the sauce, instead of the carrot and celery. Stir constantly until quite hot; but it must not boil after the egg and cream are added. A tea- spoonful of salt, and half a tea-spoonful of .pepper, should be put in, if the stock is not already seasoned. Servo the sweetbreads on a hot dish, strain the sauce over them, and sendLAM ( 3G2 ) LAM sorrol or tomato sauce to table, in a tureon. AspLiragiis or greon peas form on oxcellont accompaiiimout. Time, half an hour. I'robablo coat, uucortain. tiulliciout for thi'oo or four persona. Lamb Sweetbreads, Scolloped.— Soak tlu'(u) Inuib's sweotbruuds, uiid boil them for ton miuutes. Throw them into cold water, drain and dry ihem, and cut them in thin slices. Season and flavour them with a tea- spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of popper, the eighth of a grated nutmeg, and the juice of half a lemon, and fry them with an ounce of butter till they are brightly browned. Dredge a table-spoonful of flour on them, pour over them half a pint of boiling cream, and add a dozen sliced mushrooms. Shako the pan over the fire for a few minutes, then draw it aside, and let it cool a little. Mix a tea-spoonful or two of the sauce with two well-beaten yolks of «ggs, and add them gradually to the rest. Stir over the fire again until quite hot, and serve in the middle of a rice border. Time, half an hour. Probable cost, uncertain. Sufficient for four or five persons. Lamb Target.—The rib or target of lamb consists of the neck and breast-joints left undivided. Saw off the chine-bone, and remove the flat bones which adhere to the meaty part of the neck. Partially divide the ribs, and cover the joint with buttered paper. Lay it down before a clear fire, and let it remain until done enough. A few minutes before it is ready, remove the paper, ancj brown the meat nicely. Place it on a hot dish, and send brown gravy and mint sauce to table with it. Time to roast, about an hour. Probable cost, 9d. per pound. Sufficient for three or four persons. Lamb with Cucumber.—Stew a breast, loin, or neck of lamb, untO. it is sufficiently tender to draw out the bones. Drain and trim it, brush it over with beaten egg, and strew seasoned bread-crumbs thickly upon it. Have ready some cucumber, prepared as follows:— Procure two or three fresh young cucumbers. Take oS' the rind, remove the seeds, and cut them into pieces, lengthwise. Sprinkle salt and pepper upon them, and fry them in hot butter for five or six minutes. Put them into a stewpan, cover them with some of the liquid in which the lamb was stewed, and let them simmer gently for twenty minutes. Broil the lamb {see Lamb, Broiled); place the gucumber and gravy on a hot dish, and serve the lamb upon them. Garnish with sliced lemon and parsley. Time, altogether, about two hours. Probable cost of lamb, lOd. or Is. per pound. Sufficient for three or foui- persons. Lamb with Rice.—Three-parts roast a loin, breast, or small fore-quarter of lamb. Cut it into neat pieces, strew a little salt and pepper over these, and lay them in a deep dish, with as much nicely-flavoured stock as will just cover the bottom of the dish. Boil half a pound of rice with a quart of 'V'ater, two ounces of butter, and a blade of mace, until the rice is quite tender, and the water absorbed. Add a little salt, and beat the rice thoroughly; then mix with it the yolks of two eggs well beaten. Spread the rice over the lamb, and Ijrush over it the woU-boaton yolk of another egg. Put tho moat into a moderate oven, until it is hghtly brcjwnod all over. Time to roast tlie lamb, twelve minutes to tho pound. Probable cost, lamb. lOd. or Is. per pomid; rice,4d. per pound! Sufficient, a smjiU quarter of lamb for six or seven persons. Lamb's Feet.—Clean, and wash well, and scald si.\ lamb's feet, liemovo tho sliunkljones very carefully, so as not to break the skin, then let them soak for two or throe hours in cold water. Drain them, put them into a stewpan, with as nmch cold water as wiU barely cover them, and two table-spoonfuls of strained lemon- juice. Let them boil for ten or fifteen minutes, then throw them into cold water, and when they are quite cool cut off the bones from the cleft of the foot, and the Uttlo piece of hair that lies in it. Afterwards, stew them for three hours in some wliite stock, and with them an onion, a bunch of parsley, and thyme, three or four mushrooms, half a dozen peppercorns, a blade of mace, and a slice of lean ham. Strain the sauce, thicken it with flour and butter, and add half a pint of new milk. Let the feet boil up once more in it, and add, the last thing, a tea- spoonful of lemon-juice. Serve on a hot dish, and send peas or asparagus to table. Probable cost. Is. 3d. Sufficient for two or three persons. Lamb's Feet (another way).—Prepare and stew the feet as in the last recipe. When quite tender, remove the bones, roll the feet, dip them in egg and bread-cnmibs, and fry them. Or, if preferred, spread a mixture pre- pared as follows over a dish, let it get quite hot in the oven, then place the rolled feet upon it, and serve them dry. In either case, sauce (Robert or supreme sauce) should be sent to table in a tureen. For the mixture:—Take four table-spoonftds of finely-grated bread- crumbs, season them with pepper and salt, rub into them a piece of butter the size of a large egg, and mix with them, first, a table-spoonful of grated cheese, and afterwards the yolks of three eggs well beaten. Time, three hours to stew the feet, ten minutes to fry them. Pro- bable cost, Is. 3d. Sufficient for two or three persons. Lamb's Fry.—Take a pound or a poimd and a half of lamb's fry. Wash it thoroughly in cold water, then set it in a saucepan, cover it with cold water; and let it boil for three or four minutes. Take it out, di-ain and dry it in a cloth. Mix a tea-spoonful of flour very smoothly with a little cold water, and add to it a small pinch of salt and pepper, six tea-spoon- fuls of water, and a well-beaten egg. Dip each piece of the fry into this mixture, Ihen fry it in three ounces of hot dripping until it is brightly browned on both sides, without being at all burnt. :Mix a table-spoonful of flour, very smoothlv, with the fat in the fiying-pan. unlil it is hghtly bro\\Tied. Add sufficient boiling water to bring it to the thickness of cream, a table-spoonful of ketchup, and a little brownijur, if necessary. A few mushrooms, or a little chopped onion, may be added, if liked. If pref('iTod, the frv limv be cooked without the batter, or beaten "egg and bread-crumbs may beLAM LAM ( 363 ) substituted for it. Time, about twelve minutes. The liver should be put in two or thi-ee minutes after the rest. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Sufficient for four persons. Lamb's Fry (a German recipe). —Soak 'the fry in cold water for half an hour. Dram it, put it into a saucepan with as much cold water as wiU cover it, and add two or three green onions, a carrot, a bunchi of parsley, and a small sprig of thyme. Simmer verj- gently for an hour and a half, then pour both gravy and fry into a bowl, and let all get cold together. Drain and di-y the meat, cut it into neat slices, dip half of these into beaten egg, and afterwards into bread-crumbs, and, a few minutes before serving, fry them in hot butter until they are lightly browned on both sides. Strain the gravy, put it into a saucepan, with an ounce of fresh butter rolled ia flour, a finely-minced shallot, three table-spoonfuls of finely-grated bread- crumbs, a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, half a tea-spoonful of salt, and a pinch of pepper. Simmer for half an hour. Stir in all the meat which is not intended to be fried first, cutting it as small as possible, and, while it is heating, fry the sUces of liver, &c., in fat. Put these in a hot dish, squeeze the juice of a lemon over them, pour the sauce into the centre, and serve as hot as possible. Garnish with thin rashers of fried bacon. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for four persons. Lamb's Head and Mince. —Scald, scrape, and -wash the head thoroughly, and put both it and the fry into a stewpan, with a large onion stuck with three cloves, two bunches of parsley, a bunch of thyme, a carrot, a turnip, a Tbay-leaf, half a dozen peppercorns, a table- spoonful of salt, and two quarts of cold water. Let them boil up quickly, remove the scum as it rises, and simmer gently for an hour. Divide the head, take out the tongue and brains, and fold the two halves in a cloth to drj'. Mince the heart, liver", half of the lights, the brains, and the tongue (first taking off the skin), very finely. Season with a tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of pepper, and three or foirr grates of a nutmeg; put the meat into a saucepan with three-quarters of a pint of the strained gravy thickened with three ounces of butter rolled in flour, and add a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup. Cover the saucepan closely and simmer gently for haH an hour; stir every now and then, to prevent the contents sticking. Brush the head over with beaten egg, sprinkle finely-grated bread-crumbs over it, and bake in a moderate oven, or place it before the fire, and let it remain until lightly bro"svned, basting liberally with good dripping. Place the head in the middle of a hot dish, put the mince round, and garnish with parsley. As a varia- tion, the brains may be made into cakos, instead «f being mixed with the mince, and the liver Iried with a few slices of bacon. The two may then be placed alternately roimd the dish. The inice of a lemon should be squeezed over the nead at the last moment. Time, two hours. Probable cost, 3s. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Lamb's Head, To Prepare Brains for.—Wash and clean the brains thoroughly, let them lie in cold water for half an hour, then boU them in vinegar and water for six or eight minutes. After this they may be either minced with the fry, or cut into thin slices and placed between the halves of the head, or chopped small and mixed smoothly with a dessert-spoonful of flour, half a tea- spoonful of salt, a quarter of a tea-spoonful of pepper, a tea-spoonful of finely-minced parsley, and about a square inch of thin lemon-rind, finely grated. Work aU well together with a weU-beaten egg, have ready a pan of boiling fat, drop the mixture into it from a spoon in small round cakes, and fry them to a bright brown colour. Drain the fat thoroughly from them before serving. Time, three or foxir minutes to fry the cakes. Lamb's Pluck {see Lamb's Fry). rare Lamprey.—This not very wholesome, but re and rich fish, was a gi-eat favourite in ancient times, and is well known to the student of English history, as it was an attack of indi- UHFBET. gestion, brought on by eating of it too freely, which caused the death of Henry I. Lamprey is generally served either stewed or potted, and V cannot be eaten too fresh. It requires twice as much stewing as an eel, and should be partially boiled before it is either broiled or fried. Lamprey. Potted.—Take a dozen lam- preys of moderate size. Empty them, and cleanse them thoroughly from slime, by washing them in hot water, cut off the heads, tails, and gills, and take out the cartilage, and a string on each side of it, do'wn the back. Dry them well, and let them drain for several hours before proceeding further. Pound half a dozen blades of mace and a dozen cloves to a fine powder. IMix with them two ounces of white pepper, and three ounces of salt, and sprinkle this seasoning inside, and all over the lampreys. Curl the fish round, and lay them in a stone jar. Pour over them half a pound of melted beef suet, and two pounds of clarified butter. Tie three or four folds of paper over the top of the jar, and bake in a moderate oven. Keep look- ing at them whilst baking, and as the oil works up remove it. Lay them in a cool dry place, in the same jar in which they were cooked. When wanted for use, do not send the old but- ter to table with them, but put as many as are required into a fresh jar, let them heat in the oven, then cover them with fresh butter. They wiU keep good for four or five months. Time, three hours to bake. Probable cost, imcertain, lampreys being seldom offered for sale. Lamprey, Roasted. —Take a largo lam- prey. Wash it thoroughly in warm water, toLAM ( 364 ) LAN romovo the slime. Oi)on and empty it, cut off the head, tail, and gilla. Take out the cartilage and a string on each side of it down the back, and till it with a forcemeat made of four ounces of linoly- grated bread-crumbs, two ounces of fat bacon, chopped small, two table-spoonfuls of minced parsley, a pinch of powdered mace, half a salt- spoonful of salt, and the same of pepper, and the unbeaten yolk of an egg. Sow the body of the lamprey securely, to prevent tlie forcemeat escaping, and roll it round and round. Fasten it with silver skewers, and bind it with twine; put it into a stewpan, cover it with water, and let it simmer very gently for a quarter of an hour. Take it out, drain and dry it, rub it all over with dripping, fasten it on the spit, roast it before a clear lire, and baste it plenti- fully. When it is nearly done enough take off the skin, brush it over with the yolk of an egg, strew bread-crumbs thickly upon it, and let it remain until nicely browned. Serve it on a hot <lish, and send the following sauce to table in a tureen:—Bone and pound two anchovies. Iklix them with two table-spoonfuls of chopped capers, and stir them into a quarter of a pint of good melted butter. Add a table-spoonful of the vinegar with which the capers were covered; let the sauce boil up once, and serve imme- diately. Time to roast, forty minutes. Pro- bable cost, uncertain, lampreys being seldom offered for sale. Sufficient for four or five persons. Lamprey, Stewed.—Rub a moderate- sized lamprey with salt, wash it in warm water to cleanse it from slime, cut off its head, tail, and gills, season with pepper, salt, and nut- meg, and cut it into pieces about three inches in length. Put these pieces into a stewpan with three or four small onions, a dozen button- mushrooms, a bay-leaf, a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, a small piece of thin lemon- rind, thi-ee-quarters of a pint of boiling stock or water, and a glass of sherry. A larger pro- portion of wine may be used, if liked. Simmer very gently until done enough. Thicken the gravy with a piece of butter rolled in flour, and boil for a few minutes longer. Take out the fish, place it on a hot dish, squeeze the juice of half a lemon over it, and strain the sauce upon it. Garnish with cut lemon. Time, an hour and a half. Probable cost, uncertain, lampreys being seldom offered for sale. Sufficient for four or five persons. Lancashire Hot Pot. — Take three pounds of the best end of a neck of mutton, four mutton kidneys, a score of oysters, four onions, and three pounds of potatoes. Divide the mutton into chops, cut off about two inches and a half from the end, and trim away all superfluous fat. PLace a layer at the bottoin of a brown earthenware stewpot, (called in Lancashire a "hot-pot dish,") and put oyer the mutton a layer of sliced kidneys, an onion cut into thin slices, four or five oysters, and half a pound of sliced potatoes. Sprinkle a salt- spoonful of salt, a salt-spoonful of pepper, and a tea-spoonful of curry-powder over them; then repeat the previous performance until the dish is fidl. Place whole potatoes at the top, and pour ir; the oyster liquor and hall a pint of water. I'ut the dish into a moderate ovon, and bake until the iwtatoes at the tor, are brown and crisp, but are cooked througl, When ready to servo, pour half a pint .,i boiling gravy over the meat, and send it Vj table in the dish in wliich it was baked. Pin a napkin neatly round the dish for the sake id appearance. The oven must not be very hot, or the gravy will be dried up. If there is any danger of this, add a little more. Time, thru, hours and a half to bake. Probable cost, oh. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Lancasliire Oatcake Oatcake, Lan- cashire). Lancashire Raised Pie.—Take about two pounds of whatever meat is preferred (pork is most generally used), cut the lean into thin slices, and season each piece slightly with a httle pepper and salt. Take away all the bones, and stew them, with a pint of water, half a small tea-spoonful of salt, and a pinch of pepper, for two hours, then strain the gravy and put it aside for use. It should when cold be a stiff jelly. Shred four ounces of beef suet very finely. Mix half a tea-spoonful of salt with it, and melt it over the fire in half a pint of boiling water. It will take ten or fifteen minutes to melt. Put a pound and a half of flour into a bowl. Pout the boiling fat and water into the middle of it, and mix thoroughly, first with a spoon and afterwards with t' hands. Knead to a stiff paste, cut off a pi large enough to form the lid of the pie, put rest on the table and mould it -with the handai to the form of a cone. Flatten the sides with the palms of the hands, and, when quite smooth, press down the top of the cone with one hand, and veith the other make the sides equally round- Great expedition is necessarj'-, as the exceUen: of the pie depends to a considerable extent o its being placed in the oven while still warm^ Put in the lean meat, strew a Kttle minced f over each layer, and press it closely until t mould is full. Egg the edges, roll out th cover, and place it on the pie. Make a s hole in the centre, through which the gravj- afterwards be put in. Ornament the pic wi leaves of pastrj', or in any other way to plea the fancy, brush it over with yolk of _ egg, an bake in a good oven. "\\Tien the pie is do" enough pour a little of the jelly gra\'7 (melt through the hole in the top. Lancashire rais pies are much more easily made in moulds: an until the cook has acquired expertness in the manufacture, she will do well to confine he: to those of small size. Beef suet is better t either butter or lard for this pastrj% but cither of these are used an extra ounce be required for the same quantity of flour an water. Time to bake, three hours. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Landrail, or Corn Crake,-To Roast. —This delicious bird, which is in full season at the end of August and the beginning of Sep- tember, should be trussed like a snipe, with the head under the wing, and a skewer pa.ssod through the thigh and the body, to keep the legs straight. Fasten two or three slices of bacon over the breast, and roast before a clear fire Dish it on fried bread-crumbs, or, ifLAR ( 365 ) IiAB preferred, omit these and pour a small quantity of brown gnvvy into tho dish with it, und send more to table in a tureen. Bread sauce should also be sent to table with it. Tune to roast, LANDRAIL. from fifteen to twenty minutes. Probable cost, uncertain, com crakes being seldom offered for sale. Sufficient, three or four for a dish. Lard and Butter Pastry.—Rub a pound of lard into two pounds of flour, and roll it out. Roll out half a pound of butter on the board, and dredge a little flour upon it. Lift the floured butter on the pajstry, fold them up together, and roll out once. Pastry is better when made in a cool place, and should be rolled out, if con- venient, on a. marble slab. Time, a quarter of an hour to prepare. Probable cost, Is. lOd. for this quantity. Lard Crust {see Crust, Lard). Lard, Melting.—Take the fat from the inner part of a pig, newly killed. Cleanse it from skin and blood, cut it into thin slices, and put it into an earthenware jar; place it in a pan ®f boiling water, and let it simmer very gently. Keep pouring the fat off as it dissolves, either into dry jars or into bladders which have been well cleaned. The smaller these are the better, as the lard is liable to spoil as soon as it is ex- posed to the air. Store in a cool, dry place. If jars are used, cover them securely with bladder before putting them away. The last drajnings of the fat will not be so fine as that which is poured off first. Lard Pastry.—Mix two tea-spoonfuls of baking-powder and a salt-spoonful of salt with two pounds of fine flour. Put a pound and a kalf of lard into the centre, stir it briskly with a knif«, and keep pouring in cold water very gradually until the ingredients are thoroughly mixed. Eoll the pastry out, and touch it as little as possible with the fibigers. Time, a quarter of an hour to prepare. Probable cost of lard, lOd. per pound. Lard, Pork {see Pork Lard). Lard. Preserving Unmelted.—Take the fat from the inside of a newly-killed pig, rub it all over with salt, and let it lie for two days. Drain it, and put it into salt and water sufficiently strong to float an egg. Change this occasionally in warm weather. Lay the leaf into fresh water for two or throe hours before using it. Lard, To.—Larding is sometimes spoken ■ as one of the most difficult operations of cookery, and yet it is exceedingly easy. It is a great improvement to aU dry, lean meats, and requires to be neatly done in order to look well, but for this a little practice is all that is necessary. It is not at ail unlike wool-work. Cut the bacon (which for white meat should be cured without saltpetre, for fear of red- dening the flesh) into narrow stnps of equal length and thickness. For poultry and game these should be two inches long, the eighth of an inch thick, and a quarter of an inch broad; but for fillets of beef and loins of veal they should be two inches long and the third of an inch square. Put each strip of bacon, which is called a lardoon into a larding needle. On the point of this take up as much of the flesh as will hold the lardoon firmly, draw the needle through, and part of the bacon with it, leaving about half an inch at each side. Repeat the process as evenly as possible, and at equal dis- tances, until the meat requiring to be larded is covered with these chequered rows. Gene- rally speaking, the breasts only of pheasants, LABDINQ NEEDLE. chickens, turkeys, and partridges are larded, and the backs and thighs of hares. "When the flesh is soft, as in the case of poultry, the part to be larded should be dipped for a moment into boiling water, which will give firmness to it. Lardoons.—Lardoon is the name given to the strip of bacon which is to be used for lard- ing. Bacon intended for this purpose should be cured, as has been said in the preceding recipe, mthout saltpetre, or it will give a pink tinge to white meats. Lark Pastry (to be eaten cold).—Take (a dozen larks, empty them, cut ofE their heads, legs, and necks, and put these into a sauce- pan with a few trimmings of veal, if veal trimmings arc at hand, a sprig of parsley, a very small sprig of thjone, a sliced carrot, and a pint of water. Let them simmer very gently until the liquid is considerably reduced, and will jelly. Mince the livers of the larks finely, and mix them with half a pound of lean veal, half a pound of sausage-meat, four ounces of unsmoked bacon, three table-spoonfuls of chopped parsley, a dessert-spoonful of powdered thjTue, a tea-spoonful of white pepper, and a little salt. The quantity must be regulated by the condition of the bacon. Work up half of this forcemeat with a table-spoonful of light wine, and fill the larks with it. Line a mould or pie-dish throughout with a good stiff crust. Put a layer of loose mincemeat at the bottom, lay the larks upon it, and fill up the empty spaces with mincemeat. Place three or four slices of bacon on the top, put on the cover, fasten the edges securely, and cut a slit in the middle through which the gravj' may after- wards be poured. Bake in a moderate oven. When the pastrj'- is sufficiently baked, strain the liquor into it through the hole in the top, then cover it with a small ornament, and let it get quite cold before cutting it; indeed, it wiU be better if the dish is kept a day or two before being used. Time to bake, from an hour and a haK to two hours. Probable cost of larks. Is. 6d. per dozen. Sufficient for six or eight persons.( 366 ) LAR LAB Lark Pie (to be eaten hot).—Take a dozen larks, empty thorn, cut off their heads, necks, and logs, roll them in floiu-, fill them with a forcemeat mado of four tahle-sijoonfuls of finely-grated broad-crumbs, half a table- spoonful of chopped parsley, the rind of a quarter of a lemon, finely mincod, a small salt- spoonful of salt, and half a salt-spoonful of popper, riaco three or four slices of bacon and throe or four slices of lean hoof at the bottom of a pie-dish, put the larks upon them, and strew over them half a tea-spoonful of pepper, a table-spoonful of parsley, a shallot cut into small pieces, and a little salt, if required, but this will depend upon the con- dition of tho bacon. Pour half a pint of weak stock over tho whole, line the edges with a good crust, cover tho dish with the same, and bake in a moderate oven. Time to bake, from an hour and a quarter to an hour and a half. Probable cost of larks, Is. 6d. per dozen. Suffi- cient for six or seven persons. Lark Pie (another way).—Take a dozen larks, pluck them, cut off their heads, necks, and legs, and take the gizzards only from the insides. Fry them lightly, and with them half a pound of lean veal, and half a pound of ham cut into pieces about two inches square. Put the veal and ham at the bottom of a pie-dish, place the larks upon them, and strew over them a tea-spoonful of salt, or less if the bacon be very salt, a tea-spoonful of pepper, a finely-minced shallot, and a dozen small mushrooms cut into thin slices. Thicken half a pint of good stock with a table-spoonful of flour, add a table-spoonful of ketchup, let it boil for two or three minutes, then pour it over the larks, &c. Line the edges of the dish with good pastry, cover with the same, and bake in a good oven for about an hour and a half. Pro- bable cost of larks. Is. 6d. per dozen. Sufficient for five or six persons. Larks (a la Macedoine).—Pick and clean two dozen larks, cut off their necks and heads, and fiU them vcith. a forcemeat made of their livers, finely minced, three ounces of veal, three ounces of fat bacon, a salt-spoonful of Bait (if this be necessary), a quarter of a tea- spoonful of pepper, a table-spoonful of pow- dered sweet herbs, and a quarter of a nutmeg, grated. Pound the forcemeat well before put- ting it into the birds. Lay the larks into a deep dish, pour over them a pint of good gravy, and bake in a moderate oven. Dish them round mashed potatoes, and garnish with carrots and turnips, boiled and cut into small dice. Pour the gravy over, and serve. Time, a quarter of an hour to bake. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Probable cost. Is. 6d. per dozen. Larks, Broiled.—Pick and clean a dozen larks, cut off their heads and legs, truss them firmly, rub thom over with beaten egg, and strew bread-crumbs and a small pinch of salt over them. Broil them over a clear fire, and serve them on toasted bread. Time, ten minutes. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for five or six persons. Larks, Croustade of—Bone a dozen and a half larks, cut off the legs and heads, open, seaaon them slightly, and put a smaU piece of veal forcemeat and a truflle into each bird, roll the larks up tu a ball-isluipe, put them into a pie-dish, 8oa«on them slightly with salt and pepper, and pour three ounces of clarified butter over them; then bake in a hot oven for a quarter of an hour. Dish thom in a fri. bread croustade jn-epared as follows :—Cut th. crust from a stale loaf, about eight inches lou;.- scoop it out in the centre, and fry it in very hoi lard till it is briglitly browned; drain and di •. it, and stick it in the middle of the dish, witli \ paste made of white of egg and flour. Befor. l)utting the larks into it, put it in tho oven ior a few minutes to get hot. Gamieh with stewi-J mushi-ooms and aspic jelly, and send a pint oi good brown sauce to table in a tureen. Pr';- bable cost of larks. Is. 6d, per dozen. Sufficieu*. for half a dozen persons. Larks in Batter Pudding.—Mix six table-spoonfuls of flour very smoothly with four table-spoonfuls of water, four well-beaten eggs, and a pint of milk. Add a tea-8ix)0nful of salt and half a tea-spoonful of pepper. Grease a pie-dish thickly, pom- in the batter, and put into it half a dozen larks, which havr been picked, cleaned, and trussed, with a slicf of bacon fastened roimd each. Bake in a good oven. Time to bake, two hours. Probable cost of larks. Is. 6d. per dozen. Sufficient for five or six persons. Larks, Potted.—Pluck and clean a dozen larks, cut off the heads, necks, and legs, open and flatten them, and season each one with a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Arrange them closely in a potting-pan, place a quarter of a pound of butter upon them, and bake them in a moderate oven. Take them out, pour oft" the butter, and put them in a cool, diy place tmtil wanted. Time, twenty-five minutes to bake. Probable cost, Is. 6d. per dozen. Suffi- cient for three or four persons. Larks, Puffs of {see Puffs of Larks). Larks, Roast. — Pick and clean haK a dozen larks, cut off the legs, and pick out the gizzards with the point of a knife. Season the birds lightly with a httle pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, and strew a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley over each; brush them ^vith beaten yolk of egg, sprinkle bread-crumbs upon them, run them upon a long skewer, fasten each end of this to the spit, and put them down to a clear fire. Baste plentifully with butter, and strew more bread-crumbs over them while roasting, until within five minute.s of their hoins done enough, then leave them to brown. Dish them on fried bread-crumbs, and garnish tht dish with slices of lemon. Time to roast, from ten to fifteen minutes. Probable cost, 9d. Sufficient for two persons. Larks, Roast (another wav). —Prepare the larks as in the last recipe. Instead, how- ever, of brushing them over with egg a.nd dipping them in bread-crumbs, cover each bml entirely with a shco of fat bacon, and roast as before. Be careful that the larks are not sufli- cicntly near each other to touch when on thr skewer. Garnish with watercrcsses, and send( 367 ) LEE LAR gravv to table in a tureen. Time, about ten uiinutes to roast. Probable cost, 9(1. Suffi- cii-'ut for two persons. Larks, Stewed.—Pick and clean a dozen larks; opeu tlieui, and fry tliem-vvitb two ounces of fat bacon, cut into small pieces, until tbey are lightly browned; di-edgo a little Horn- over them, and add half a pottle of mushrooms cut into slices, half a tea-spoonful of pepper, and as much salt as is requu-ed ; this will be regulated by the condition of the bacon. Pour over them a\\-iue-glassf ul of stock and another of sheiTy, and sinmicr gently for a quarter of an liour. Add a table-spoonful of finely-minced parsley, boil for a minute, and serve on a hot dish. Gar- nish with toasted sippets. Probable dost,Is. 6d. l^er dozen. Sufficient for thi-ee or four persons. Larks Stewed, (a German recipe).—Pick and clean a dozen larks; oj)en and flatten them, and season them slightly with a httle salt and pepper; -put them into a stewpan Avith three oimces of claiifiod butter and half a dozen juniper-berries, and let them remain until they are lightly browned. Pour over them three table-spoonfuls of stock or water, simmer gently for a few minutes, and serve veiy hot. Time, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for four persons. Laver, To Dress.—Laver is a plant which gTows upon rocks near the sea-shore, and is valued on account of its anti-scorbutic qualities. It is generally boiled down to a jelly as soon as it is found, then potted, and sent to distant places for use. To dress it, ijut a pound into a bright stewpan with tliree oimces of fresh butter, squeeze over it the juice of a lemon or a Seville orange, and stir it with a silver fork until quite hot. Serve it as hot as possible, either over a lamp or a hot-water dish. Th^ taste for laver is an acquired one. Instead of the butter a Httle gravy may be i)ut into the pan, but lemon-juice should never be omitted. Sufficient for three or four persons. Probable cost, uncertain. Leamington Pudding.—Beat a quarter of a pound of fresh butter to a cream, mix with it a quarter of a pound of fine flour and a quarter of a pound of sugar, which has been well rubbed upon the rind of a lemon, and then powdered ; add a tiny pinch of salt, a pint of cream, the yolks of six eggs and the whites of two, whisked to a firm froth. Butter three round pudding-moulds of different sizes, pour in the mixture, and bake in a quick oven. Serve the puddings one on the top of the other, the largest at the bottom, and spread a layer of good jam between each. Wine-sauce should be sent to table with this pudding. Time to bake, one hour. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Leche Crema.—Put six ounces of ratafia cakes at the bottom of a shallow dish. Mix the well-beaten yolks of three and the white of one egg with a pint and a half of milk and two or three drops of ratafia flavouring; add four tiblo-spoonfuls of flour and two table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar, and stir the whole over the fire for a few minutc), until the flour is dissolved and the milk bci^ns to thicken. Let it cool, then place it over the cakes very gently, or they will rise to the top. Serve cold. Strew a few hundreds and thousands over the top, or, if preferred, ratafias, about an inch aj^art. Time, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, Is. 4d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Leeks.—This, the Allium Forrum, is a plant highly valued for culinarj'- purposes. Its flavour is much milder than that of the onion, or any other species of Allium. In Wales, the leek has long been a special favourite. It is or- dinarily sown in sj)ring, and is ready for use in the following winter. Attention has long been given to its growth, and some of the varieties exhibit in a remarkable degree the effects of cultivation in increased size and delicacy. Leeks and Potato Soup, Maigre.— Prepare and fry the leeks as in the recipe for Leek Soup (which see). Season them with a tea-spoonful of pepper and half a tea-spoon- ful of salt, and pour over them three pints of boiling water. Let them simmer for haK an hour. Then put with them four large mealy potatoes, peeled and cut into sHces. Boil until. the potatoes are sufficiently soft to crush easily. Press the whole through a sieve, make the soup hot, add a pint of boiling-milk or cream, and serve. Leeks, Boiling of.—Leeks are generally used in soups, &c. If served alone, take them when \ery young, trim off the root, the outer leaves, and the green ends, and cut the stalks into six-inch lengths. Tie them in bundles, put them into boiling water, with a dessei-t- spoonf ul of salt and a table-spoonfivl of vinegar, and let them boil until quite tender. Drain them, and serve Kke asparagus, on hot toast, pouring white sauce or melted butter over them. Time to boil, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, 4d. per bundle. Sufficient for five or six persons. Leeks, Plammish.—Rub half a pound of fresh butter into a pound of flour; add half a tea-spoonftd of salt, the yolks of two eggs, and three-quarters of a pint of water. Mix thoroughly. Divide this pastry into four parts, and roll these out into rounds about six inches in diameter. Have ready a dozen leeks, pre- pared as follows:—Wash them in two or three waters, trim oft' the root and the outei* leaves, strew a table-spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of pepper, and half a gi-ated nutmeg over them, and pour over them half a pint of cream. Let them soak for half an hour. Put the rounds of pastry on a baking-dish; fill each one with the- leeks, draw up the sides to the centre, fasten them securely together, and bake in a good oven. Time to bake, half an hour. Probable cost, 28. 3d, Sufficient for half a dozen persons.LEE ( 3G8 ) LEM Leeks, Flammish (another way).— Wash, blanch, and cut into piocoa of half an inch, a dozen niiddlo-sizod looks. Put half a pint of cream into a bowl, and stir in the looks, with a seasoning of nutmeg, popper, and 8alt._ Have ready one pound of sliort paste, which divide into four equal parts. Roll out each part in a circular form, and about the size of a pudding-plate; cover the centre with the look mi.xturo. Gather up the sides of the paste, so that each shall appear like a puckered purse; and fasten with a small round piece of paste wetted, and gently fixed on the centre. Time, half an hour to bake. Probable cost, 23. Leek, Gingerbread {sec Gingerbread Leek). Leeks, Porridge of, Welsh {see Welsh Leek Porridge). Leeks, Soup of.—Trim ofiE the root and outer leaves from eight fine leeks. Wash them quite free from gi-it, divide them lengthwise into quarters, and cut them into pieces an inch long. Put these into boiling water for five minutes, then drain them, and fry them in a little hot butter till they are lightly browned. Pour over them two quarts of good stock, season with two tea-spoonfuls of salt and half a tea-spoon- ful of pepper, and simmer gently for an hour. Place a roU cut into small pieces at the bottom of the tureen. Thicken the soup with three ounces of flour, first mixed smoothly with a little stock, and afterwards added to the rest. Boil a quarter of an hour longer, and serve as hot aa possible. If preferred, half a pint of cream can be substituted for the sliced roll. Probable cost, 5d. per quart. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Leeks, Soup of (commonly called Cock-a- Leekie).—Wash a dozen leeks; trim away the roots, the outer leaves, and the dark green ends, and divide them into pieces an inch long and a quarter of an inch thick. Put them into boiling water for four or five minutes, then drain them, and lay half of them into a stewpan with two quarts of good stock and a large fowl, trussed as for boiling. Skim carefully, and sim- mer gently for half an hour. At the end of that time put in the remainder of the leeks, and boil for three-quarters of an hour longer. Skim carefully, and season, if required, with pepper and salt. Cut the fowl into neat pieces, place these in a tureen, and pour the soup, which should be very thick with leeks, over them. This soup is excellent for any one suffering from cold. Probable cost, 2s. per quart. Suffi- cint for six or eight persons. Leicester Pie.—Take three pounds of pork, fat and lean together. Cut it into pieces two inches long and an inch and a half wide, season these with pepper and salt and powdered sage, and put them aside. Mix a tea-spoonful of salt with a pound of flonr. Stir into it with a knife four ounces of lard, dis- solved in half a pint of hot water, roll it out, line a greased tin mould with part of it, put in the pieces of pork, place the lid on the top, and fasten the edges securely. Bake in a mode- rate oven. The greatest expedition should be used, as this pie should be i)ut into the oven while it is still warm. Time to Iwko, an hour and three-quarters. I'robablo cost, 2a. lOd. Sufficient for six or seven peiuons. Leicester Pudding.—Mix a heaped tea- spociiiful of carbonate of soda and a small pinch of salt with a pound of flour. Add the finely- minced rind of half a lemon, a quarter of a nutmeg, grated, four ounces of finely-slired beef suet, a table-spoonful of sugar, and half a pound of stoned raisins. Mix the dry ingre- dients thoroughly, stir into them a j)int of milk, put the mixture into a buttered mould, tie it in a floured cloth, plunge it into boiling water, and let it boil quickly until done enough. Send wine or brandy sauce to table witli it. Time to boil, two hours and a half. Probable cost. Is. Sufficient for foirr or five persons. Leibestershire Medley Pie.—Take a pound each of cold fat bacon, cold roast beef or pork, and cored apples. Line the edges of a pie-dish with a good crust made of dripping or lard. Fill it with the meat and apples in alternate layers, and season each layer with a httle pepper, salt, and powdered ginger. Pour half a pint of ale over all, place the lid on the top, and bake in a good oven. Time to bake, about an hour and a half. Probable cost, 2s. 3d. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Leipzig Pancakes.—ilix half a pound of flour and half a tea-spoonful of salt very smoothly with the well-beaten yolks of four and the whites of two eggs; jiidd gradually four ounces of pounded sugar, four ounces of clarified butter, a table-spoonful of fresh yeast dissolved in three-quarters of a pint of luke- warm milk, and a table-spoonful of spirits of wine. Mix all thoroughly. Cover the batter, and put it in a warm place to rise. Roll it out thin, and fry it in small rounds. Serve the rounds in pairs, with a little jam between each pair. Time, half an hour to rise; a few minutes to fry. Probable cost. Is. Sufficient for three or four persons. Leman's Biscuits.—Rub two ounces of fresh butter into half a pound of fine dry flour, add a pinch of salt, a table-spoonful of powdered sugar, and a piece of volatile salt the size of a bean. Work the whole into a stiff paste with a little lukewarm milk, and leave it for two or three hours. At the end of that time roll it out, divide it into small biscuits of different shapes, prick them -vsdth a fork, and bake upon buttered tins in a quick oven. Be careful not to let them colour in baking. Time to bake, from ten minutes to a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, 4d. Sufficient for a dozen and a half cakes. Lemon.—The acid juice of the common lemon is much employed in the manufacture of the favourite beverage lemonade. It is also an important article of ship stores, as a preventive of scurvy. Lemon-peel—the rind of the fruit separated from the pulp—is in demand for flavouring. The exportation of lemons from the southern districts of Europe, where they are grown, is very considerable. Sicily alone exports every year 30,000 chests, each chest containing 440 lemons.( 369 ) LEM LEM Lemon and Liver Sauce for Fowls. —Wash and scoro the liver of the fowl, and "boil it for live minutes; drain it, and pound it in a moi-tar with two or thi-oe spoonfuls of good gra\T. Piire olE the thin outer rind of a lemon, and mince it finely; remove the thick wliite akin, cut the pulp into small pieces, mix with it a tea-spoonful of the minced rind, add half a tea-spoonful of salt, and stir the whole into half a pint of good melted hutter. Make the sauce hot over the fire, hut it must not hoil, for fear the butter should oU. Time, half an hour to prepare. Probable cost, 3d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Lemon and Orange Candied Rings for Garnishing {see Orange and Lemon Candied Eings). Lemon and Orange Juice for Colds [see Orange and Lemon Juice). Lemon and Rhubarb Jam.—Rhubarb jam is very much improved if flavoured with lemon-rind. "Wipe the rhubarb very dry—if old, it must be skinned—cut it into small pieces, and weigh it. Allow a pound of sugar, the rind of half a large lemon, chopped small, and half an ounce of bitter almonds to each pound and a quarter of rhubarb; boU all together very gently, until the sugar is dissolved, and keep stirring, to prevent burning; the jam may then be allowed to boil more quickly. When done, put it into jars, cover with oiled and egged or gummed papers, and store in a cool, dry place. Khubarb jam should be used quickly, as it does not keep well. Time to boil the fruit, reckon- ing from the time when the sugar is dissolved, and it simmers equally all over, an hour for young rhubarb, an hour and a half for old. Probable cost, 6d. per pound. Sufficient, a pint of sUced rhubarb for a pound of jam. ' Lemon Biscuits.—Eub the rind of a large fresh lemon upon a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, then crush it to powder. Work three oimces of fresh butter into half a pound of fine flour, add the powdered sugar, and the yolks of three eggs, well beaten. When thoroughly mixed, add last of aU the whites of ths egga, whisked to a firm froth; stir all briskly for two or three minutes, then drop the cakes upon a baking-sheet, a little apart from each other, and bake in a moderate oven. Two or three oimces of currants may be added, if liked. Time to bake, twenty minutes. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for a dozen and a half biscuits. Lemon Blancmange.—Take the thin rind of two fresh lemons, and put it into a basin with a quarter of a pint of cold water or cold milk, and a quarter of a pound of sugar, and let it stajjd for an hour or more. Dissolve half an ounce of isinglass or gelatine in a quarter of a pint of water, and when nearly cold mix it with the lemon-water. Add the yolks of three eggs, beaten up with half a pint of thick cream, put the mixture into a jug, place it in a pan of boiling water, and stir it over the fire for ten minutes; then pour it out, stir it again until nearly cold, to prevent it skinning, and put it into a wet mould. Time to prepare, an hour and a half. Probable cost, Is. lOd. Sufficient for a pint of blancmange. Lemon Blancmange (another way).— Put half a pint of milk into a saucepan with the thin rind of a lemon and two ounces of ground rice, and stii- over the fire until tho mixture thiclccns. Add some custard made with half a pint of milk and tho weU-beaten yolks of thi'oe eggs, and mix both custard and ground rice thoroughly ; sweeten with a quarter of a pound of sugar, add half an ounce of isin- glass or gelatine, dissolved in another half-pint of milk, and when nearly cold stir in the strained lemon-juice. Put the mixture into an oiled mould, and turn it out when wanted. Time, an hour to ])repare. Probable cost. Is. 2d. Sufficient for a quart mould. Lemon Brandy (for flavouring custardj and sweet dishes).—Take the thin rind of half a dozen fresh lemons, and put them in a bottle with a pint of brandy. Let them infuse for six weeks, then strain the liquid, and put it in small bottles, cork and seal secm-ely, and put aside for use. Probable cost, lemons. Id. each. Sufficient for a pint of lemon brandy. Lemon Brandy (another way). — See Brandy, Lemon. Lemon Bread Pudding, Baked.— Grate three ounces of the stale crumb of bread very finely, mix with it three table-spoonfuls of sugar and the grated rind of three lemons; add a quarter of a pint of cream and the same of milk. Mix the dry ingredients very thoroughly, then add the strained juice of the lemons, and six well-beaten eggs, omitting the whites of two. Butter a pie-dish, pour in the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven. Time to bake, about an hour. Probable cost. Is. 8d.- Sufficient for four or five persons. Lemon Bread Pudding, Boiled.— Shred a quarter of a pound of beef suet very finely, add a pinch of salt, six ounces of finely grated bread-crumbs, a table-spoonful of flour, three table-spoonfuls of moist sugar, the finely minced rind and strained juice of a lemon, half a pint of milk, and two eggs well beaten. IMix thoroughly. Butter a plain pudding-mould rather thickly, ornament the inside with raisins, candied fruit, or sliced lemon-rind, pour in the pudding, cover it with a floured cloth, plunge it into boiling water, and let it boU quickly until done enough. Turn it out on a dish, and send to table a sauce made as follows, poured round it:— Put the thin rind and juice of a lemon in half a pint of water, add two table-spoonfuls of sugar, and simmer gently over the fire for twenty minutes; add two or three drops of cochineal and a table-spoonful of gin, and it is ready to serve. Time to boil, three hours. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Lemon Bread Puddings, Boiled (another way).—JNIix half a poimd of grated bread-crumbs, with a quarter of a pound of finely-shred suet or beef marrow. Add a pinch of salt, two table-spoonfuls of sugar, the giated rind and strained juice of a fresh lemon, a table-spoonful of flour, and three well-beaten eggs. Beat for ten minutes. Divide the mix- ture into half a dozen balls, tie these in small floiired cloths, plunge them into boiling water, and boil quickly. Serve with brandy sauq©.LEM LEM ( 370 ) Time to boil, an hour. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for f'oiir or fivo persons. Lemon Cake.—Boat tho yolks of six eyf^s thorouj^lily. Add hiilf a pound of sifted su^ar, the grated rind of a lemon, and two tfible- spoonfuls of orange-flower water. Beat all to- gether for some nuuutcs. Dredge in gradually si.>c ounces of flour, add the strained lemon- jmco and the whites of tho eggs whisked to a firm froth. Mix thorouglily, put the mixture juto buttered tins, and bake immediately. Time to bake, about an hour. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for a pint mould. Lemon Cake, Rich.—Beat three-quar- ters of a pound of fresh butter to a cream. Work into it six ounces of dried flour, and add three-quarters of a pound of powdered sugar, the grated rind of two lemons, and the well- beaten yolks of nine eggs. When thoroughly mixed, stir in the white of six eggs, beaten to a firm froth, and two table-spoonfuls of brandy. Put the mixture into a well-buttered mould, and bake in a moderate oven. Time to bake, nearly an hour. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Suffi- cient for a pint and a half mould. Lemon Calf's Foot Jelly {see Calf's Foot Jelly, Lemon). Lemon Caramel.—Break half a pound of loaf sugar to pieces. Barely cover it with water, and boil it to the snap; then keep stirring it until it becomes slightly coloiured. Draw it near the side, and add six or seven drops of the essence of lemon—the quantity to be regulated by taste. Pour the mixture upon an oiled baking-sheet; mark it in squares with the back of a knife, and let it get quite cold, when it ■ will easily snap. Time, about half an hoiu-. Probable cost, 3d. Lemon Cheesecakes.—Bub the peel off two large lemons with half a pound of loaf sugar. Crush the sugar to powder, and mix it with half a poimd of clarified butter, add six well- beaten eggs, five table-spoonfuls of cream, and the strained juice of one of the lemons. Stir all together over a slow fire xmtil the mixture begins to thicken. Let it get cold. Line patty-pans with good puff paste—^rather more than fill them—and bake in a quick oven. Time to bake, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, Is. 8d. Sufficient for three dozen cheese- cakes. Lemon Cheesecakes (another way).— Simmer together over a slow fire a'pound of loaf sugar, foiur ounces of fresh butter, four well-beaten eggs, and the juice and finely- minced rind of two lemons. Stir one way, and when the sugar is dissolved, and the mixture is smooth and of the consistency of honey, pom- it into a bowl. When cool, it is ready to put into the patty-pans. Time to bake, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, Is. 3d. Sufficient for two dozen cheesecakes. Lemon Cheesecakes (another way).— See Cheesecakes, Lemon. Lemon Cheesecakes (that will keep).— Rub a pound of loaf sugar upon the rind of two large fresh lemons until all the yellow part Urtaken off. Crush it to powder, and mix with it tho strained juico of tho lemons, the yolks of six and tho whites of four well-beaten eggs, three sponge biscuits grated, and four ounces of sweet buttor. Put all together in a sauco- l)an over tlie fire, and stir one way until the mixture is as thick as honey. It may be used at once, or, if preferred, may be put into a jar and covered closely. If kept in a cool, dry place, tho mixture will remain good for two or tln-ee years. Time, half an hour to prejjare. I'l-o- bable cost. Is. 8d. Suflicient for three dozen cheesecakes. Lemon Cream.—Take the thin rind of one large or two small fresli lemomi, and put it into a pint of cream. Let it soak for half an hour, then stir in four ounces of sifted sugar and the strained juice of the lemon. When well mixed, add one ounce of disisolved and cooled isinglass. Take out the lemon-rind, pour the mixture immediately into a weU-oded mould, and put it into a cool place to set. Time, about half an hour to prepare. Probable cost, 2s. 9d. Sufficient for a pint and a half mould. Lemon Cream (another way).—Cream, Lemon. Lemon Creams.—Put the thia rind of two lemons, and a dozen sweet almonds, blanched and sliced, into a pint of cream, and let it stand two or three hours till the flavour is thoroughly extracted. If expedition is required, put the cream, &c., into a saucepan, and place it near the fire for half an hour. Put the cream into a jug, and let it cool, then pom- it from a good height into another jug containing the strained juice of the lemons, half a tumblerful of sherry, and three ounces of pounded sugar, and continue pouring backwards and forwards until the cream is nicely frothed. Serve in glasses. Probable cost, Is. lOd., exclusive of the sherrj-. Sufficient for a pint and a half of cream. Lemon Creams (another way).—Soak one ounce of isinglass for five minutes in half a pint of sherry or raisin wine. Dissolve it over the fire, stiiTing gently all the time. Eub the rind of two large, fresh lemons with six ounces of loaf sugar, and add it, with the strained juice of the lemons, to the hot isin- glass. Pom- the whole gently into a bowl containing a pint of cream or new milk, stii- all together for a short time, then put the liquid into a damp mould. Time, about an hour to prepare. Probable cost, exclusive of the wine, 3s. Sufficient for a quart mould. Lemon Creams (economical).—Put a pint of milk into a saucepan, with the thin rind of a lemon, a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, and an ounce of gelatine. Stir over a gentle fire untQ the gelatine is dissolved, strain the liquid into a jug, and add to it, very gradually, the yolks of two well-beaten eggs. Pour the hquid from ono jug into another xintil it is nearly cold; then add a dessert-spoonfid of lemon-juice, and keep stirring five or six minutes longer. Pour the mixture into a well-oiled mould, and lay it in a cool place till .set. Time, a few minutes to boil the milk. Pro- bable cost, Is. 2d. Sufficient for a pint and a half mould.( 371 ) LEM LEM Lemon Creams without Cream.— Put the thin riuds of two, and the strained juice of thi-ee lemons into a pint of spring water. Let them soak for an hour or two. Add sLx well-beaten eggs, and foiu- ounces of loaf sugar, set all together over the hro, and stir constantly imtil the mixture thickens, but do not allow" it to boil. Strain it, when cool, into glasses. Time, a few minutes to thicken the cream. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for a pint and a half of cream. Lemon Custard.—Put the thin rind of two lemons into a pint of cream, and soak until the flavour is extracted. Boil the cream, and pour it gi-aduaUy over the weU-whisked yolks of eight eggs. Kemove the lemon-rind, add a tahlc- spoonful of brandy, and two table-spoonfuls of madeira. Pour the mixture into a jug, place it in a pan of boiling water, and stir one way until it thickens. Serve either in cups or on a dish. Time, half an hour to prepare. Probable cost, exclusive of the brandy and wine, 2s. 4d. Sufficient for a pint and a half of custard. Lemon Custard (another way). —/See Custard, Lemon. Lemon Custard, or Creams without Eggs.—Strain the juice of two lemons upon two ounces of powdered loaf sugar. Soak the thin rinds of the lemons in a pint of cream, and when the flavour is extracted, boil it, let it cool, and pour it very gradually over the juice and sugar. Add half a glass of brandy, and serve either in a dish or in cups. This custard will keep for a day or two if put in a cool place. Time, a few minutes to thicken the custard. Probable cost, Is. lOd. Sufficient for a pint of custard. Lemon Custard without Cream br Milk.—Put the thin rind of two lemons into three-quarters of a pint of cold water, and soak until the flavour is extracted. Boil the liquid, and pour it gradually over the yolks of eight eggs which have been beaten briskly for several minutes. Strain the juice of the lemons over a quarter of a pound of sugar, add a quarter of a pint of water, and boil until the sugar is dissolved. Put all together into a jug, place this in a saucepan of boiling water, and stir one way imtil the custard thickens. A table-spoonful of bi-andy and two table-spoon- fuls of madeira may be added if Hked; many think them a great improvement. Time, half an hour to make. Probable cost, exclusive of wine and brandy, Is. Sufficient for a pint and a half of custard. Lemon Drops.—Strain the jjiicc of three or four largo lemons into a bowl, then mix powdered loaf sugar wuth it until it is quite thick. Put it into a pan, and let it boil for fiive minutes, stirring it constantly. Drop it from the end of a spoon upon writing-paper, and when cold, keep the drops in tin canisters until wanted for use. Or, take two ounces of powdered loaf sugar, mix with them the grated rind of three large lemons, and half a tea-spoonful of fine flour. Whisk the white of an egg thoroughly. Work it up with the other ingredients to a light paste, then place it in drops upon a sheet of writing-paper, and dry before the fire until the di-ops are quite hard. Time, half an hour to prepare. Probable cost, Id. per ounce. Lemon Dumplings.—l^Iix six ounces of finely-shred beef suet v/ith half a pound of grated bread-crumbs; or, if preferred, four ounces of bread-crumbs and four ounces of flour. Add four table-spoonfiols of moist sugar, the choi^ped rind and strained juice of a large lemon, a beaten egg, and half a pint of new milk. When thoroughly mixed, divide the mixture into half a dozen parts. Put each part into a small buttered cup, tie it in a cloth, and boil quickly imtil it is done enough. Serve the dumplings hot. with a Httlo sauce made of three ounces of sugar boiled with the rind of a lemon, and the strained juice, and half a pint of water, until the sugar is dissolved. A glass of sherry and two or three di-ops of cochineal may be added. Time to boil, one hour. Probable cost, 9d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Lemon Essence, Artificial. — Mix gradually a drachm of the best oil of lemons with two oimces of rectified spirits of wine. Cork secm-ely. Lemon, Essence of. — Choose fresh, sound lemons, -s^ ipe them well with a soft cloth, then take two or thi-ee large lumps of sugar and rub the yellow rind entirely off. Powder the sugar, put it into a glass jar, press it down, and cover it carefully to exclude the air, as the flavour' of lemon quickly evaporates.- Keep it in a cool diy place. Time, half an hour to prepare. Probable cost of lemons, Id. each. A very small portion of the essence of lemon from the point of a knife will flavour a pint of custard. Lemon filled with Jelly.—Cut a small round about the size of a shilling from the stalk end of each lemon with a small sharp-pointed, knife, then scoop out the inside with the handle of a tea-spoon, and take great care not to injure the rind. Throw the skins into cold water for an hour to harden them, drain them on a sieve, and when they ai-e quite dry inside, half fill them with pink jelly. Place them in rows upon ice, and when the jeUy is firm, fiU them up with white jeUy, blancmange, or cream. Lay them on the ice once more, and, before serving, cut them neatly into quarters with a sharp knife. They sliould be arranged prettily on a glass dish with a sprig of myrtle between each quarter. Probable cost of lemons, Id. each. Lemon Floating Island.—Take half a dozen fresh eggs, separate the whites and the yolks ; beat the whites to a solid froth, sweeten them, and flavour with two or three drops of the essence of lemon. Beat the yolks, mix them with a pint and a half of milk, flavour strongly with lemon, and stir the custard over a gentle fire until it thickens, but it must not boil. When nearly cool, add very gradually a table-spoonful of lemon-juice. Pour it into a glass dish, and pile the whites upon it. Garnish according to taste. A small piece of red-currant jelly placed here and there is an improvement, or half of the frotlx may be thickly coloured with cochineal. Time, a few minutes to thickenLEM LEM ( 372 ) tho custard. Probable cost, Is. Sufficiout for four or fivo persons. Lemon Fritters.—Sliroil two ounces of beef suet very iiuoly, add u dtisaort-spoonful of flour, three ounces of lino broad-crumbs, the grated rind of a largo lemon, and two table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar. When the dry ingredients are thoroughly blended, stii- in a table-spoonful of milk, two woIU beaton eggs, and a table-spoonful of strained lemon-juice. Fry the mixture in small quan- tities until it is lightly browned on each side; di-ain, and serve as hot as possible. Time, five or six minutes to fry. Probable cost, 6d. iSuf- ficient for two or three persons. Lemon Gingerbread {see Gingerbread, Lemon). Lemon Honeycomb.—Mi.x the whiter of two eggs with a pint of cream. Sweeten it, and flavour with a little grated lemon-rind. Whip it briskly, and as the froth rises place it upon the strained and sweetened juice of two lemons. Let it remain a few hours before being used. The juice sliould be put into the glass dish in which the honeycomb is to be served. Time to whip the cream, about one hour. Pro- bable cost, 2s. Sufficient for four or five persons. Lemon Ice Cream.—Rasp the yellow rind of two large frosli lemons upon half a pound of loaf sugar. Powder it, and strain over it the juice of one lemon. Add a quart of cream, stir until the sugar is dissolved, freeze, and serve. If milk has to be substituted for the cream, it may be enriched by the addi- tion of the yolks of four eggs. It must then be stirred over the fire until it is boiling hot, and the juice must not be added until the liquor has cooled. Time, half an hour to prepare. Probable cost, 4s. if made with cream. Is. if made with milk. Sufficient for rather less than, three pints of cream. Lemon in Cream, Fruit {see Fruit, Lemon, in Cream). Lemon Isinglass, or G-elatine, Jelly. —Rub the yellow rind of three large fresh lemons upon half a pound of sugar. Pour over it the carefully-strained juice of six lemons, and put it into an enamelled saucepan, with one ounce of isinglass, a pint of water, and a large wineglass of sherry. Stir these over the fire until the isinglass is dissolved. Strain the jelly through a bag, and if it is not perfectly trans- parent, mix it, when quite cool, with the whites and crushed shells of three eggs whisked %vith a quarter of a pint of cold water. Let the jelly boil for three minutes without stirring, then let it settle for five or six minutes, and strain it again. Time, about an hour to prepare. Pro- bable cost, exclusive of the sherry, 3s. Sufficient for a quart of jelly. Lemon Jelly, Isinglass, Superlative. —Take six large fresh lemons, rub them well with a soft cloth, then pare the rind very thinly from three of them, and throw it into a syrup made by boiling a pound of refined sugar in a pint of water for six minutes. Strain the juice oi all the lemons through muslin, and when the syrup is cool, mix them together. Put two ounces and a half of best isinglass into an enamelled saucepan, and pour ovfjr them a pint of ayving water wliidi has lioon l^caten up with half the white of an ogg. Stir the liquid gently until a scum begins to form, tlion let it boU softly and skim it carefully. When it has boiled for fivo minutes, strain it, and mix it I with the ckrified syrup. Add a little sherry if this is wished, and run the jelly tluougli muslin until it is quite clear. Put it into damp moulds, and place these in a cool place or upon ice until it is set. Before turning out, dip the mould for a moment in liot water, then turn it upside down on the dish. Serve at once. Time, an hour and a half to jjrepare. Proljable cost, ex- clusive of the sherry, 38. 6d. Sufficient for three pints of jelly. Lemon Juice, Artificial, for Pish, Sauces, &C.—Put half a dozen drops of the essence of lemon, made from oil of lemon, mixed with spirit {see Lemon Essence, Artifi- cial) upon a lump of sugar. Pound it to powder, and stii" it into three ounces of pyrollgneous vinegar. Use as required. Lemon Juice, To Preserve.—Choose fine fresh lemons, and squeeze the juice from them. Strain it through muslin, and put it into bottles, pour over it sufficient olive-oil to cover it entirely, and cork the bottles securely. It will keep for some time. Or, put half a pint of strained lemon-juice into a basin, and with it half a pound of finely-pounded and sifted loaf sugar. Stir it with a silver spoon until the sugar is dissolved. Put it into small bottles, cork it closely, and tie bladder over the corks. Probable cost of lemons, Id. each. Lemon Juice, To Purify.—Strain one pint of lemon-juice through muslin; mix with it half an ounce of pounded charcoal, and let it remain until the next day; run it through blotting-paper, and be careful to pour it off gently, so as not to disturb the sediment. Bottle it, cork it tightly, and tie bladder over the corks. Keep it in a cool, dry place. Pro- bable cost of lemons. Id. each. Lemon Eali.—Take two parts of sifted sugar, one part of powdered and dried citric acid, and a little more than one part of powdered bicarbonate of potash. Mix thoroughly, and keep in a closely-stoppered bottle. Probable cost. Is. 4d. per pound. Sufficient, a tea-spoon- ful for half a tumblerful of water. Lemon Ketchup.—Take six large fresh lemons. Cut oft" the rind very thinly. Make a deep incision in the end of each, fill it with salt, and afterwards rub salt all over them, using not less than three ounces. Let the lemons stand in a warm place for seven or eight days; then put them into an earthen jar, strew over them a quarter of an ounce each of mace, cloves, and cayenne: add two ounces of horseradish, and if the flavour is lik'ed, one ounce of garlic or shallots. Put a pint and a half of best white vinegar into a saucepan, with half a blade of mace, and half an oimce of bruised ginger. Simmer it gently for three minutes, then pour it hot upon the liquid. This pickle may stand for five months before it is strained; though, if( 373 ) LEM required, it can be used at the end of two months. The colour would be improved if two or three bruised tomatoes were put with it. Probable cost, Is. 8d. Sufficient for one quart of ketchup. Lemon Ketchup (a quick -way of making).—Take half a dozen fresh lemons. Cut them into slices, remove the pips, rub them well with three ounces of salt, place them in layers in a stone jar, and strew a little seasoning and spice between each layer, allowing a quarter of an oxmce each of mace, cloves, and cayenne, two oimces of horseradish, two ounces of mustard-seed, two ounces of allspice, and two ounces of white pepper. Boil two quarts of white vinegar, pour it hot upon the lemons, and let it stand imtil the next day. Strain, and bottle for use. Probable cost, Is. 6d. per quart. Siifficient for two quarts. Lemon Liquor.—Infuse the thin rind of two large, fresh lemons in a pint of rectified spirits of wine, for ten days. At the end of that time, strain, and mix with it the juice of the lemons and a syrup made by boiling haK a pound of refined sugar in a pint of water for five minutes. Pour the liquor into bottles, cork securely, and tie bladder over the corks. Probable cost, od., exclusive of the spirit. Suf- ficient for a Uttle more than a quart of liquor. Lemon Lozenges and Pipes.—Put a quarter of an ounce of gum tragacanth into a quarter of a pint of water. Add the strained juice of three lemons, and the rind cut into thin slices. Let it remain for three or four days, until the gum forms a mucilage, and stir it frequently during that time. Strain it into a mortar, and mix with it, very gradually,_one pound of powdered loaf sugar, and be careful that one part is thoroughly mixed before another is added. When a white and flexible paste has been thus prepared, dust a little starch over it to keep it from sticking, and roll it into a sheet about as thick as a halfpenny. Cut it into lozenges with the back of a blunt knife, or roll it into pipes of the required length. Arrange them on a plate, and diy them in a warm oven. Probable cost, Is. Lemon Marmalade.—Take some fresh clear lemons. Boil them in as much water as will cover them for two hours. Pour off the water once or twice during that time, and replace it with fresh boiling water. Drain the lemons, and cut them into thin slices. Leave out all the pips and weigh the fruit, and allow two pounds of loaf sugar and a pint of the water the lemons were last boiled in for every pound of fruit. Boil the sugar and water for ten minutes. Put in the pulp, &c., and boil together for haK an hour. Pour the mar- malade into jars; when cool, cover it with brandicd paper, and afterwards with bladder or tissue-paper brushed over either with white of egg or dissolved gum. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Lemon Marmalade (another way).— Boil and slice the lemons as in the last recipe; mix them thoroughly with an equal weight of apple pulp. Make a sjTup, by boiling one pint of water with every two pounds of sugar, allowing two pounds of sugar to every pound of fruit. Boil the sugar and water together for ten minutes, put in the fruit, and boil again until it is clear. Put it into jars, let it cool, and cover in the usual way. Time, two hours to boil the lemons; forty minutes the marmalade. Probable cost, 8d. per pound. Lemon Mincemeat.—Peel two large fresh lemons very thinly, squeeze the juice from them, being careful to leave out the pips, and boil the rind imtil it is tender enough to beat to a paste. Add four sharp apples, pared, cored, and chopped small, half a pound of finely-shred suet, a pound of currants, half a pound of good moist sugar, two ounces of can- died lemon and citron, half a nutmeg, grated, a quarter of a tea-spoonful of powdered mace, a small pinch of salt, and the lemon-juice. ]\Iix all thoroughly, then put the mincemeat into a jar with a closely-fitting lid, and let it remain for a week before it is used. A little brandy may be added if liked. Jvist before making the meat up into pies, add three or four macaroons crushed to powder. Time, an hour to prepare. Probable cost. Is. 6d., exclusive of the brandy. Sufficient for two dozen small pies. Lemon Paste for Dessert. — Choose sound fresh lemons, boil them in two or three waters, and season the first with a handful of salt. When they are tender, drain and let them cool, then put them into a bowl, and beat them to a pulp with a rolling-pin. Pass this pulp through a sieve, and squeeze it well to cause as much as possible to go through. Weigh the pulp. Mix with it an equal quan- tity of pounded sugar, and stii- it without ceasing until it is so dry as to leave the sides of the saucepan and come up with the spoon. Press it into shallow dishes, and put these into a cool oven imtil the paste is quite dry. It may then be cut into small squares, strips, or any other shape. These should be placed in single layers in a tin box, with foolscap paper between the layers. Time, altogether, about four hours. Probable cost of lemons, Id. each. Lemon Patties.—Rub the rind of a fresh lemon with three ounces of loaf sugar. Crush it to powder, and mix it with the finely-grated crumb of a penny loaf. Pour over the mixture a quarter of a pint of boiling milk, and soak for half an hour. At the end of that time stir in two ounces of clarified butter and two well- beaten eggs. Butter some small cups, rathoj' more than half fill them with the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. When done, turn the patties out on a hot dish, and send wine sauce to table with them. Pro- bable cost, 8d. Sufficient for half a dozen patties. Lemon Peel, Tincture of.—Tako the thin rind of a large fresli lemon. Put it in a bottle with half a pint of brandy, and let it infuse for a fortnight. At the end of that time the brandy will be strongly impregnated with the flavour of the lemon, and should be strained, corlccd closely, and put aside for use. Probable cost of lemon, Id. Sufficient, a tea- spoonful will flavour a pint of custard, &c.LEM LEM ( 374 ) Lemon Peol, To Candy.—Choose sound rrosh loinons, cut them into (lUiirtora length- ^viso, roniovo the pulp entirely, and put tlio rind into salt and water for throe days, and afterwards into coUl water for a day. ' Boil thorn in fresh cold water until they are tender. Drain thorn, and cover them witii their syrup, made in the proportion of a pound of sugar to every quart of water. ^V^lon they look clear, which will be in half an liour, drain them again, make a thick syrup, allowing for this a pound of sugar to every pint of water, put them in, and boil over a slow tiro until the syrup candies. Take out the lemons, drabi them, and dry them in a cool oven. Store in a cool, diy place. Probable cost of lemons, Id. each. Lemon Peel, To Keep for Use.— Lemons should be kept in a cool, dry place, and e'ach one should be hung in a separate net, for if they touch one another they -will spoil. The rind may be grated, put into jars, and covered -with either salt or sugar, according to the nature of the dish for which it is afterwards to be used. Lemon Peel, To Preserve for Gar- nishing.—Cut lemon-rind into thin slices. Prepare a syrup by boiling a pint of sugar with three-quarters of a pint of water imtil the sugar is dissolved. Put in the rind, and simmer both together for a quarter of an hour. Wlien cool, put into pots, cover closely, and store in a cool, dry place. Lemon thus prepared is useful for garnishing dishes. Pro- bable cost of lemons, Id. each. j Lemon, Pickled.—Take a dozen fresh sound lemons, small, and with thick i-inds. Rub j them with a piece of tlanncl, and slit them down in four quarters through the rind only, without breaking the fruit. Fill the openings with salt, pressed hard in, and set them upright in a deep pan, which must be put in a warm place until the salt melts. Tui-n them three times a day, and baste them often in the liquor until they are tender. Drain the liquor from them, and put them into earthen jars. Boil the brine with two quarts of good vinegar, half a pound of bruised ginger, three ounces of black pepper, six ounces of mustard-seed, and an ounce of Jamaica pepper. Pour it, when boiling, upon the lemons, with an equal quantity of the seasoning in each jar, and when cool, cover with thick paper. The lemons must be kept well covered with vinegar, and as it evaporates more must be added. When the lemons are used the liquid will be useful in making fish and other sauces. This pickle will keep for years, but it ought to be kept twelve months before it is used. If wanted sooner, however, bake the lemons in a very cool oven for six or seven hours. The best time for making this pickle is from November to April. Time, ten days to melt the salt. Probable cost of lemons, Id.each. Lemon Pudding, Baked.—Boat two ounces of fresh butter to a cream, mix with it three ounces of powdered sugar, the beaten yolks of three eggs, the well-wliiskcd white of one egg, and the grated rind of a small fresh lemon. When tliose are tliorou<'hly mixed, add the stininod juice of the lemon, poiu- :t m gently, and stir )>ri«kly all the time Lme the edges of a small pie-dish with good puif paste, pour in the nuxture, and bake in u slow oven for twonty-five minutes. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for two or tlu-ee persons. Lemon Pudding, Baked, Plain.—Put the thin riud of a large fresh lemon into a pint and a half of milk. Lot it soak for a while, then boil it, and pour while liot over half a pound of finely-grated bread-crumbs; add an ounce and a half of fresh butter, three table- spoonfuls of sugar, and three eggs well beaten. Pour the mixtm-e into a buttered dish, and Ijake in a moderate oven for three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for five or six l^ersons. Lemon Pudding, Baked (anotlier and a richer way).—Crush four ounces of rata- fias to powder, and strain over it the juice of four fresh lemons; add the grated rind of two lemons, four ounces of powdered sugar, three-quarters of a pint of cream, the eighth of a nutmeg grated, a small pinch of salt, the beaten yolks of six and the well-whisked whites of thi-ee eggs. Line the edges of a pie-dish with good puff 'paste, put in the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven until the pudding is lightly browned, which will be in about half an hour. Probable cost, 2s. 8d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Lemon Pudding, Boiled.—Shred six ounces of beef suet very finely. Mix with it half a pound of bread-crumbs, half a pound of sugar, a tea-spoonful of salt, the lind of two lao-ge lemons chopped small, the strained juice of one, and two well-beaten eggs. Pour-the mixture into a buttered mould, plunge it into boiling water, and boil it quickly and continuously. Serve brandy sauce with it. If preferred, one ounce of ginger or half a pound of chopped figs may be substituted for the lemon-rind, but the juice should not be omitted. Time to boil, four hours. Probable cost. Is. Sufficient for five or six persons. Lemon PuiOfs.—Grate the rind of two fresh lemons, and mix it with ten ounces of finely-sifted sugar. Beat the whites of two eggs to a firm froth, add the sugar very gra- dually, and whisk all together to a thick paste. Cut it into any shape that may be preferred, but be careful not to liandle the paste any more than can be helped. Place the pufis on oiled ^vl•iting-paper, and bake upon tins in a moderate oven for about ten minutes. Pro- bable cost, 7d. Lemon Rice.—Put the rind of a lemon, an ounce of butter, three table-spoonfuls of sugar, five or six bruised almonds, and a pint and a half of milk into a saucepan, ^\^lcn it boils, stu" in quickly a quarter of a pound of ground rice which has been smootlily mixed with another half-pint of milk. Continue stirring until the rico has boiled for a few minutes, and until it leaves the sides of the saucepan with the spoon, then take out the rind, pour the rice into a woll-oiled mould, and put it in a cool place to set. Cut the rind of( 375 ) LEM LEM a lemon into strips an inch long and the eighth of an inch wide, throw them into -boiling water, let them boil for two minutes, then dram and dry them. Put six ounces of sugar into a pint of water, add the juke of the lemon and the strips of rind, and simmer gently for two hours. "SMien wanted for use turn out the rice, pour the sjTup gently over it, and take care that the lemon-rind is equally distributed. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Lemon Rock Biscuits.—Rub the yellow rind of two fresh .lemons upon a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar. Powder it, and mix it gradually with the white of an egg whisked to a firm froth; beat thoroughly. Butter some writing-paper, place it on an oven tin, di-op the mixtui-e upon it from the end of a spoon in rock-like shape, and place it in a cool oven to diy. Time, haK an hour to beat the sugar and egg. Probable cost, od. Lemon Roly-poly Pudding (excel- lent).—Take the pulp from two large, fresh lemons. Remove the pips, weigh the lemons, and boil them with an equal weight of sugar for a quarter of an hour. Turn the mixture out to cool. Mix six ounces of finely-shred suet with three-quarters of a pound of flour, add a pinch of salt, and as much water as will make it into a firm paste. Roll it out about half an inch in thickness, spi'ead the mixture upon it, roll it round and round into a long pudding, pinch the ends securely, tie it in a floured cloth, put it into boiling water, and let it boil quickly until done enough, which will he in about two hours. Probable cost, 6d. Sirfficient for four or five persons. Lemon Sandwiches.—Take one pound of rich pufE paste and roU it out very thinly. Divide it in halves, and spread over one half a layer of lemon cheesecake mixtui-e. Put the other half upon it, press it closely, mark it lightly into diamonds, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for four or five persons. Lemon Sauce for Fowls.—^Take a fresh lemon, pare off the rind, and remove the thick white sldn and the pips. Cut it into dice, and put it into half a pint of good melted hutter. Make it thoroughly hot ^\'ithout bringing it to the point of boiling, and serve immediately; half a tea-spoonful of finely-minced lemon-rind is sometimes added. Probable cost, 4d. Suffi- cient for three or four persons. Lemon Sauce, for Fowls, White. —Take about half a pint of white stock (or, failing this, boil the trimmings of the fowls with a little water), put it into a saucepan with the thin rind of a lemon, six white peppercorns, half a blade of mace, pounded, a quarter of a grated nutmeg, a small tea-spoonful of salt, and a bunch of parsley. Simmer gently for twenty minutes. vStrain the sauce, add half a pint of good cream or milk, thicken with a dessert-spoonful of flour mixed .smoothly vrifh a little cold milk, and boil gently a few minutes longer. Just before serving, add the strained J'uice of the lemon, but let the sauce cool a ittlo before it is put in, and stir it well or it will curdle. If wanted very rich the sauce may be thickened with a little butter rolled in flour. Time, twenty minutes to flavour the stock. Probable cost, Is. if made with cream. Suffi- cient for half a dozen persons. Lemon Sauce for Puddings.—Put the rind and strained j nice of a large lemon into a bowl. Poui- over them a wine-glassful of sheiTy or i-aisin wine, and a wine-glassful of water. Let them infuse some time. IVIix an ounce of fresh butter and an ounce of flour over the fii'e. When it is slightly browned gradually pour in the wine and water; add two table-spoonfuls of sugar, and boil gently untU the mixture is quite smooth. Draw the saucepan from the fire, let the contents cool a minute, then add the well-beaten yolks of two eggs. Stii- the mixtui-e imtil it thickens, but it must not he allowed to boil after the eggs are added, or it will curdle. Time, four or five minutes to boil the sauce. Probable cost, 3d., exclusive of the sherry. Sufficient for four or five persons. Lemon Sauce for Puddings (another v^Siy).—Put the thin rind of a lemon and thi-ee table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar into a sauce- pan with half a pint of water. Simmer gently for twenty minutes, then add the juice of the lemon and a M'ine-glassful of gin. Strain and serve. Two or three drops of cochineal may he added, if liked. Probable cost, 3d. Suffi- cient for four or five persons. Lemon Sherbet.—Rub the yellow rind of five small lemons with three-quarters of a pound of loaf sugar. Crush the latter to powder, put it into a saucepan with a pint of water, and simmer gently until the sugar is dissolved. When cold, add the strained juice of the lemon. Take out the rind, and, in the usual way, serve in glasses. Time, a quarter of an hour to simmer the sjTup. Prohable cost, 8d. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Lemon Shrub (see Orange or Lemon Shrub). Lemon Snow (a pretty dish for a juvenile party).—Pour a pint of cold water over an ounce of isinglass or gelatine. Let it soak for half an hour, then put it in a sauce- pan ever the fire, with three-quarters of a pound of loaf sugar and the thin rind and strained juice of two fresh lemons. Simmer gently, stirring it all the time, until the isinglass is dissolved; then pour it out, and put it aside until it is cold and beginning to set. Stir in the whites of thi-ee well-beaten eggs, and whisk all together briskly tmtil it stiffens and as- sumes the appearance of snow, then jjile it lightly in a glass dish, and make it look as rockj' as possible. If the uniform whiteness is objected to, a tea-spoonful of hundreds and thousands may be strewn over the top just before serving, or half of the snow may be coloured with two or three drops of cochineal. Time to whisk the snow, half an hour. Pro- bable cost, if made with gelatine, Is. 3d. Suffi- i cient for eight or ten persons. ! Lemon, Solid.—Rub the rind of a largo ' fresh lemon with four ounces of sugar, crush( 376 ) LEM IiEM the lumps, and put thorn into a saucepan with half an ounce of isinglass and half a ])int of cream. Heat gently imtil the isinglass is dis- solved, then add another half-pint of cream and a wine-glassful of brandy. Stir the mix- ture for three or four minutes^ strain it through a thick fold of muslin, and when cold add tlic juice of half a lemon. Pour it into a mould that has been soaked in cold water, and put it aside till set. If there is any difficulty in turn- ing it out, loosen the edges with a knife, and dip the mould for an instant in hot, but not boiling, water. Time, half an hour to prepare. Probable cost, exclusive of the brandy, Is. 6d. Sufficient for a pint and a half mould. Lemon SouflBLe.—Mix a quarter of a pound of flour very smoothly with a pint and a half of milk; add a quarter of a poimd of sugar which has been well rubbed upon the rind of three fresh lemons, and a quarter of a pound of butter, and boil gently imtil the mix- ture is thick and smooth. Pour it out, and stir it until it is nearly cold, then add the yolks of six eggs, weU beaten. Last of all, whisk the whites of nine eggs to a firm froth, and add them, with the strained juice of two lemons, to the rest. Butter a souffle-mould thickly, half fill it with the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven. If it is necessary to fill the mould more than half, tie a band of weU-buttered white paper round the top, to prevent the contents running over. Serve the souffle the moment it comes out of the oven, or its appearance wiU be spoilt. Time to bake, from thirty to forty minutes. Probable cost, Is. 8d. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Lemon Sponge.—Put an ounce of isin- glass or gelatine into a pint of water, add the rind and juice of two lemons, and half a pound of loaf sugar, and simmer gently for half an hour. Strain into a bowl, and when the mixture is cold and beginning to set, which may be known by its becoming thick, stir in the whites of two eggs beaten to a firm froth, and whisk it briskly until it is of the consistency of sponge. Pour it into a damp mould, and turn it out before serving. A few drops of cochineal may be put in with the eggs, if liked, to give a pink appearance. Time, half an hour to whisk the sponge. Probable cost, Is. 8d. Sufficient for a pint and a half mould. Lemon Syllabub.—Strain the juice of five lemons over the riud of two. Add half a poimd of loaf sugar, and let it remain for an hour or two. Add a pint of thick cream and half a pint of sherry or raisin wine, strain it, then whisk imtil the mixture is well frothed. Pour the syllabub into glasses, and let it stand ten or twelve hours before being served. Time, thirty or forty minutes to whisk the syllabub. Probable cost, exclusive of the sherry, 23. 3d. Sufficient for a dozen glasses. Lemon Syrup. — Boil six ounces of sugar in a pint of water until it is dissolved. Let it cool, then add a quarter of a pint of lemon-juice and half a drachm of essence of lemon. Mix thoroughly, and bottle for use. Time, a quarter of an hour to boil the syrup. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient, two table-spoon- fuls of syrup to a tumblerful of cold water. Lemon Tartlets.—Hub a quarter of a pound of sugar in lumps over the rind of a fine fresh lemon, strain the juice over the sugar, and crush it well; then add two ounces of cLirified butter, a tea-spoonful of bread- crumbs, and two well-beaton eggs. Line some patty-pans with good puff paste, three-parts fill them with the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutc-s. Probable cost. Id. each. Sufficient for eight tartlets. Lemon, Tincture of, for Flavouring. —Put half an ounce of the thin rind of a fresh lemon in a pint bottle with eight ounces of best brandy or rectified spirits of wine. Let it soak for a fortnight, at the end of which time the spirit will be strongly impregnated with the flavour of the lemon. If not sufficiently strong, however, an ounce of recently-prepared oU of lemons maybe added. Strain the liquid,'put it into small bottles, and cork securely. Probable cost of lemons. Id. each. Sufficient, a few drops will flavour a pint. Lemon Tubes.—Weigh an egg. Beat it well, and mix with it its weight in flour and powdered sugar, and add a tea-spoonful of finely-minced lemon-rind. Mix thoroughly, and beat to a stiff paste. EoU it out to the thickness of a halfpenny, and dredge a little powdered arrowroot on it to prevent it sticking. Divide it into rounds, about the size of the top of a breakfast-cup, place these on a buttered tin, and bake in a moderate oven. RoU them whilst still warm on a pencil, to shape them into tubes. Bake untU. lightly browned. Probable cost, 3d. Lemon Turnovers.—Pub an ounce of loaf sugar upon the rind of a lemon. Crush it, and dissolve it in two table-spoonfuls of milk. Add three dessert-spoonfuls of flour, two oimces of clarified butter, and two well-beaten eggs. Stir all over the fire for a minute. Take a pound of good pastry; divide it into six or eight pieces, and roll each piece out to a round shape, about the size of a saucer. Spread a little of the mixture on one half of the round, fold the other half over, fasten the edges securely, and bake on a buttered tin in a moderate oven. Before ser^^ng, sift a little sugar over the turnovers. Time to bake, twenty minutes. Probable cost, a halfpenny each. Sufficient for six or eight turnovers. Lemon Water.—Take the rind from a large fresh lemon, remove the thick white skin, and cut it into thin shces. Put them into a jug with half the rind and two table-spoonfuls of capillaire. Pour over them a quart of boil- ing water, and cover closely for tliree hours. This is a refreshing beverage for hot weather. Probable cost, 2d. Sufficient for a-quart of liquid. Lemon Water Ice.—"R"^ the rind of six lemons upon twelve large lumps of sugar, squeeze over them the strained juice, add half a pint of water and a pint of s\-rup, made by boiling three-quarters of a pound of sugar in three-quarters of a pint of water imtil the sugarLEM ( 377 ) LEM is dissolved. Put all together into a jug, and leave it for tin hour or two. Then mix, strain, aud freeze in the usual way. iServo in glasses. The ice will be much improved if, when it is beginuin^; to set, tlie wliites of three eggs, beaten to a firm froth, and mixed with six ounces of powdered sugar, are stirred into it. The preparation should be left in the ice until wanted. Sufficient for ten persons. Lemon Whey.—Put half a pint of milk in a siiucepau. When it boils, pour, in a table- spoonful of lemon-j nice ; add more if this does not eifectually tui-n the milk. Let it boil up, then put it into a bowl to settle; strain and sweeten, and add a little hot -water if the whey is too acid to be agreeable. This whey is ex- telleut for inducing perspiration. Time, a few minutes. Probable cost, 3d. Sufficient for rather less than half a pint of whey. Lemon, Whole, To Keep for Use. —Put a layer of dry tine sand, an inch in depth, at the bottom of an eai'then jar. Place a row of lemons upon this, stalks downwards, and be careful that they do not touch each other. Cover them with another layer of sand, fully three inches in depth, lay on it more lemons, and repeat until the jar is full. Store in a cool dry place. Lemons thus preserved will keep good for a twelvemonth. Lemon Wine.—Put the thin rind of five lemons into a tub. Pour over them a sjTup made by boiling four quarts of water Avith four pounds of sugar for thii-ty minutes. When t^uite cold, add the strained juice of ten lemons, i'laco a toast covered with, j'east on the top, and let the liquid stand for a day or two, until fer- mentation begins, then take out the rind, put liie liquor into a cask, and keep it filled up to the top until it has ceased working, when i: must be bunged down closely. In three i!ionths it will be ready for botthng. If pre- ferred, the peel of the lemon can be omitted. This wine should be made at the beginning of the year, when lemons are cheapest and best. Probable cost, 2s. Gd. Sufficient for a gallon and a half of wine. Lemon Wine, Quickly Made.—Boil a quart of water with a pound of loaf sugar until the sugar is dissolved, then add half an ounce of citric acid. When the liquid is cool, stir in with a silver spoon twelve drops of essence of lemon and eight drops of spii-its of v/ine. Colour with a little saffron. Time, an liour to prepare. Probable cost, lOd. Suffi- cient for three pints of wine. Lemonade.—Boil a quart of. -water with three-quarters of a pound of loaf sugar, and ^our the syrup over the rind of six lemons. Let thom soak for two or three hours. Add the strained juice of the lemons and two quarts 'it water. Pass the whole through a jelly-bag, md serve in glass jugs. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for seven pints of lemonade. Lemonade, Acidulated {see Acidulated Lemonade). Lemonade, Economical.—Slice four irjsh lemf)n.s, and be careful to remove the pips and the thick white skin. Put them, with the ! . rind, into a jug, add a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, and pour upon them a quart of boiling water. Cover closely, and -when the lemonade is cold, it is ready for use. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for throe pints of lemonade. Or, prepare two lemons as above, and put them into a jug with six oi ices of moist sugar and an ounce of cream of tartar. Pour two quarts of boiling water upon them, and let the liquid stand until cold. Time, two hours to infuse. Probable cost, 5d. Sufficient for five pints of lemonade. Lemonade, Effervescing.—Boil two pounds of loaf sugar in a pint of strained lemon- juice imtil the sugar is dissolved. Pour the* sjTup out, and when it is cold put it into bottles, and cork closely. ^Vhen wanted for use, put a table-spoonful into a tumbler three- pai'ts full of cold -water. Stir in briskly twenty grains of carbonate of soda, and di-ink during effervescence. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for a little more than a quart of syrup. Lemonade for Invalids.—Squeeze the juice out of a tine lemon. Strain it, put it with a quarter of the rind and three or four lumps of loaf sugar into a jug, and pour over it a pint of boiling water. Cover closely, and let thejemonade stand for two hours. At the end of that time strain, and it will be ready for -use. Lemonade for iuA'alids should be made with boiling -«-ater, as the unhealthy properties of the lemon are thus destroyed. A small quantity only of sugar should be put in, unless a desire to the contrary is expressed, as the acidity -wiU most likely be agreeable. Probable cost, 2d. Sufficient for a pint of lemonade. Lemonade for Invalids (another way). —See Invalid's Lemonade. Lemonade Milk.—Dissolve half a pound of loaf sugar in three-quaiiers of a pint of water. Add three-quarters of a pint of cold milk, a quarter of a pint of strained lemon- juice, and a quarter of a pint of any light wine. Mix thoroughly, and pass the liquid through a jelly-bag. Time, half an hour to j)repare. Probable cost, about 6d., exclusive of the wine. Sufficient for three pints of lemonade. Lemonade Milk (another way).— See Milk Lemonade. Lemonade, Mock.—Put half a dozen drops of essence of lemon upon six ounces of loaf sugar, and add a quarter of an ounce of tartaric acid. Pour a quart of boiling water upon them, and roix thoroughly. Time, about three minutes to prepare. Probable cost, 2d. Sufficient for a quart of lemonade. Lemonade, Nourishing. — Pub the yellow rind of two fresh lemons upon three or four lumps of sugar. Put them into a jug, add five ounces of loaf sugar, and pour over them a pint of boiling water. Wlion cool, strain the liquid, and stir into it a quarter of a pint of lemon-juice, a quarter of a pint of sherry, and foirr well-beaten eggs. Mix thoroughly, and the lemonade is ready for use. Time, about an hoiu- to prepare. Probable cost.LET LEM ( 378 ) oxclusive of tho shon-y, Is. Sufficient for a quart of lemonade. Lemonade, Portable.—Hub the rind of a large fresh lemon upon three ounces of loiif sugar. Crush it to powder, and mix witli it half an ounco of tartaric acid. When thoroughly blended, put the powder into a glass bottle, and cork closely. It will keep for some time. When wanted for use, stii- a spoonful of tho powder into a glassful of water. Time, half an hour to prepare. Probable cost, 4d. Sufficient for a dozen tumblers of lemonade. Lemonade Syrup.—Kubtho vellowrind of six lemons upon a pound of loaf sugar. Moisten it with half a pint of water, and stir over the fire until tho sugar is dissolved and the syrup is quite clear, then draw the sauce- pan to the side of the fire, add the strained juice of twelve lemons, and simmer gently for two or three minutes, but the syrup must not boil after the juice is added. Bottle at once, and when cold cork closely. Time, an horn- to prepare. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient, mix a table-spoonful of the syrup with half a tumblerful of water. Lemons, To Keep for Use {see Lemon Peel, To Keej) for Use ; and also Lemon, Whole, To Keep for Use). Lentils, Boiled.—There are two varieties of lentils, Egyptian or red lentils, and German or green lentils. Both are excellent. When lentils are to be used as a vegetable, proceed as follows:—Soak a breakfast-cupful of green; lentils overnight in plenty of water; next daj-, I drain and throw them into a quart of boiling 1 water, and boil for half an hour, or till tender 1 without being broken. Drain and return to I the saucepan with a slice of butter, pej^per, j salt, and a tea-spoonful of vinegar. Shake over j the fire till hot, and serve immediately. Lentils, Boiled (superior method).—Boil the lentils as in the last recipe, and drain them. Melt an ounce of butter in a clean stewpan, and fry in it a small onion, very finely chopped. Stir in a tea spoonful of flour, and mix to a smooth paste. Add boiling stock flavoured with vinegar to make a thick sauce, put in the boiled lentils, and simmer for ten or fifteen minutes. Serve in a tureen. If preferred, the vinegar can be omitted. Lentil Soup.—Put a breakfast-cupful of green lentils to soak all night in cold water. Drain them and put them into a stewpan with three pints of water or greasy stock, it' it is to be had. The liquor in which pork or bacon has been boiled is excellent for the purpose. Put with them six or eight sticks of celery, two onions, one carrot, one turnip, a faggot or bouquet garni, and a crust of stale bread. Bring tho liquor to a boil and carefully remove the thick dark scum that rises to the surface, and throw in a little cold water once or twice to assist the scum in rising. As soon as the soup reaches the boiling point, draw the sauce- pan back and simmer gently for about four hours, or until tho lentils are perfectly soft. Turn the whole upon a wire sieve, pick out the bouquet garni, and rub everji;hing else patiently through the sieve into a bowl. The pulp will go tluough more easily if a little of the liquor is kept hot and is employed to moisten it occasionally. Boil the soup again before send- ing it to table, and if too tliick add a little water; tlie addition of boiling milk will be con- sidered an improvement by many. The soup iniist bo stirred frequently while boiling, or it will burn. Lentils are in themselves so nourish- ing that moat stock is not needed. Lettuo©.—There are two sorts of lettuces, the cabbage and the cos. They are chiefly used for salads, but may be also boiled or stewed, and served as a vegetable. They may be had all the year, but are in full season from March to September. Lettuce, Boiled.—Wash four or five lettuces thoroughly, cut away the thick bitter stalks, but retain all the sound leaves, whether green or white. Boil them ten or fifteen minutes in plenty of salted water, then throw them for a minute into cold water, strain, and chop them lightly. Put them into a stewpan with a pint of good white sauce. Season them with salt, pepper, and a quarter of a nutmeg, grated, and simmer gently \mtil quite hot. Draw the saucepan to the side for a minute, and stir among the lettuces the weU-beaten yolks of two eggs. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for four or five persons. Lettuce in Salads.—Lettuces which are to be used for salads should be fresh and young. The thick bitter stalk should be cut off, and the outer and decayed leaves removed. The great secret in preparing lettuce for salad is to have it quite dry. In order to insure this, look the leaves over carefully. In aU proba- bility the white, tender leaves,at the heart or the plant will be entirely free from insects and grit. When this is the case, do not plunge them into water, as it only spoils the flavour. Any leaves, however, about which there is tho shghtest doubt must be scrupulously washed in two or three waters. "\\Tien taken out of the water they should be w-eU shaken, placed in a wire basket, and hung for four or five hours in an airj' situation. When a basket is not at hand, the lettuce may be divided into small pieces and shaken in a drj^ cloth until not a particle of moisture remains. The French are careful to break the lettuces with the fingers, instead of cutting them, as they maintain that contact with steel spoils the flavour of the salad. Tho sauce should never bo added until the moment before serving. Probable cost. Id. each. Sufficient, a large lettuce for two or three pei'sons. Lettuce Salad (a Gei-man recipe) .—Prepare two large lettuces as above, shred them finely, and put them into the salad bowl. Cut four ounces of bacon into dice, fry these with a finely- minced onion for five or six minutes, and shake tho pan over the fire to prevent thorn browning. Add to the bacon a little salt (the amount will depend uiion the quality of the bacon), half a tea-spoonful of pepper, and a table-spoonfid of A-inegar; pour all over the lettuce, and mix thoroughly. Servo immediately. Probable cost, 6d. 'Sufficient for four or five persons.LEV ( 370 ) LET Lettuce Stalks, To Preserve (an imitation of preserved ginger).—Take the stalks of large lettuces, peel otf the outer skin, cut them into pieces about two inches long, wasli them tlioroughly, and weigh them; then leave them to soak in cold water. Ascei-tain how much water will be required to cover the lettuce-stalks entii-ely, and boil this quantity with a pound of sugar and an ounce and a half of whole ginger to every pound of stalks. The ginger should be soaked in hot water and sliced before being added to the sugar. When it has boiled a quarter of an hoiu", take out the ginger, drain the water from the lettuce-stalks, pom- the syrup over them instead, and leave them until the next day. The syrup must be boiled with the ginger for a quarter of an hour. every day for five days, and poured over the lettuce. The strained juice of one or two lemons may be added at the last boiling. "Cover the pre- serve in the usual way, and store in a cool, dry place. Probable cost, 6d. per pound. Lettuce, Stewed.—Take fom- good-sized lettuces, trim away the outer leaves and the bitter stalks; wash the lettuces carefully, and boil them in plenty of salted water until they are tender. Lift them into a colander, and squeeze the water from them ; chop them slightly, and put them into a clean saucepan •with a little pepper and salt and a small piece of butter. Dredge a little fioui" on them, pour over them three table-spoonfuls of good gi'avy, and simmer gentlj' for a quarter of an hour, stuTing all the time. Squeeze a dessert-spoon- ful of -vinegar or lemon-juice upon them, and sei-ve as hot as possible, with fried sippets round the dish. Time, altogether, three-quar- ters of an hour. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Lettuce, Stewed (another way).—Take fom- good-sized cabbage lettuces, wash them carefully, trim off the outer leaves and the stalks, and put them into boiling water for ten minutes. Drain well, and let them get quite cold, then cut them into halves, sprinkle a pinch of salt o^-er each half, tie them to- gether again, place them in a stewpan, cover them with good stock, and put with them a piece of beef-diipping the size of a large egg, a bunch of parsley, a little piece of thyme, and an onion with a clove stuck in it. Cover closely, and simmer very gently for two hours. At the end of that time take out the lettuces, drain them, remove the strings, fold the leaves round neatly, and place them in a circle on a hot dish, with a piece of fried bread between each. Pour over them half a pint of household gravy (see Household Gravy). Serve imme- diately. Probable cost. Is. 3d. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Lettuce Stewed with Green Peas. —Take two good-sized cabbage lettuces. Wash them carefully, remove the stalks and the outer and decayed leaves, sprinkle a tea-spoonful of salt over them, and let them lie in cold water for a couple of hours. Drain them, cut thnm into sHce.=», and put them into a saucepan, with a quart of young and freshly-shelled green peas, a piece of butter the size of an egg rolled thickly I in flour, half a quarter of a pint of good stock, and a little pepper, salt, and pounded sugar. Cover closely, and simmer gently until the pea.s are soft. Time, half an hour to simmer. Pro- bable cost, Is. Sufficient for five or six persons. Lettuce, Stuffed.—Wash four or five large lettuces. Boil them in j)lenty of salted water for fifteen minutes. Throw them at once into cold water, and afterwards let them drain. Open them, fiU them with good veal forcemeat, tie the ends secm-ely, and ijut them into a stewpan with as much good gra^y as will cover them, a tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of pepper, and a tea-spoonful of vinegar. Sim- mer gently for another fifteen minutes, remove the strings, place them on a hot dish, and pour the gravy round them. If preferred, the lettuces may be prepared as above, and then put into a braising-pan, with thin slices of bacon above and under them. A carrot, an onion stuck with two cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a little good gravy may then be added, and the lettuces simmered gently for an hour and a half. A glassful of sherry may be added to the gravy before it is served. Probable cost of the lettuces. Id. each. Sufficient for four or five persons. Leveret, Braised.—Truss the leveret like a harfe, and fill it with a forcemeat made as follows:—Grate very finely two ounces of stale crumb of bread, season with a salt- spoonful of salt, a salt-spoonful of pounded sugar, half a salt-spoonfiil of pepper, half a salt-spoonful of finely-minced lemon-rind, and haK a salt-spoonful of grated nutmeg; add a shallot, chopped small, a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, and half a tea-spoonful of sweet herbs. When these ingredients are thoroughly mixed, work them together with a dessert-spoonful of brandy and two ounces of clarified butter. Fill the leveret with the forcemeat, and sew it up securely. Place two or three slices of bacon at the bottom of the braising-pan. Fasten two or three more on the back of the leveret, and put it legs downwards into the pan. Pom- over it half a pint of good gravy, and add a smaU onion, finely minced, a sliced can-ot, a glassful of sherry, and two table-spoonfuls of mushroom ketchuj). Cover the pan closely, and simmer gently for two hours. Take out the leveret. Press the vegetables through a sieve, put them back into the gi-avy, thicken it with two tea- spoonfuls of flour, mixed smoothly with a little cold water, return both leveret and gravy to the stewpan, and simmer for about a quarter of an hour longer. Serve very hot. Probable cost of leveret, 4s. Sufficient for five or six persons. Leveret, Cold Roast, with Poivrade Sauce.—Divide the remains of a roast leveret into neat pieces, trim them, and put them aside until wanted. Cut an ounce of lean uncooked ham into dice, and take the same quantities of minced onion, carrot, and celerJ^ Put these ingredients into a stew- pan -with an ounce of butter, and fry them until they are lightly browned. Pour over them tlvree table-spoonfuls of vinegar, a table- spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and about a( 380 ) LIE LEV tea-spoonful of anchovy sauce; add half a blnde of mace, a toa-spoonful of salt, a dmchm of cayonno, and a bay-loaf. Simmer gently for half an hour, then add half a pint of good hro\vi\ sauce and a glass of white wine. Boil 8(>ntly, and skim carefully until all the fat has been removed, then strain the sauce, put it back into the sto\\^an, and let it boil for a few minutes. Put in the pieces of cold leveret, and servo when thoy are quite hot. The sauce must not boil after the leveret is added. Time, an hour and a half. Probable co^, exclusive of the wine, lOd. Sufficient for four or six persons. Leveret Puree.—Take the remains of cold roast or braised leveret. Cut the meat off the bones, remove the skin and sinews, chop it small, and pound it in a mortar. Add gradually, whilst pounding, the remains of the sauce, and press all together through a hair sieve. Like other purees, this may be used for garnishing patties, or it may be made hot with a little re- duced stock and seasoning, and served with mashed potatoes. Time, about an hour to prepare. Leveret, Roasted.—Leverets may be used when hares are out of season; they should be trussed in the same way, and may be stuffed or not (with hare stuffing), according to preference. A leveret is best when larded, but if this cannot be done, cover it either with thin slices of fat bacon or with a thickly-buttered piece of white paper. Eoast it before a brisk £G:e, and baste it constantly, and a few minutes before it is taken do^n remove the bacon or paper, dredge ii little flour over it, and froth it nicely. Serve it very hot, and send red currant jelly to table with it as well as the following gravy, a little of which may be put in the dish and the rest in a tureen:—Thicken half a pint of stock with a bmall piece of butter rolled in. flour, let it boil for about ten minutes, then stir a wine-glassful of port into it, boil up once more, and serve. Time, an hour to roast the leveret. Sufficient for four or five persons. Probable cost, 4s. Liaisons.—The various methods _ for thickening sauces and soups are called liaisons. Those most frequently used are composed of flour, ground rice, arrowroot, roux, eggs, and milk. Flour, groimd rice, and arrowroot should be mixed very smoothly, first with a little cold liquid, and afterwards with some of the hot liquid. The mixture should then be strained, and poured with one hand into the sauce or soup which should be at the same time well stirred with the other hand. The soup must be boiled after this preparation is added. Liaison of egg is composed of the yolks of eggs only. _ The liquid shoiild always be cooled for a minute before this haison is added. The yolks must be well beaten, then mixed with a little of the liquid, and gradually added to the rest, and all f.tirred together over the fire xmtil quite hot. If allowed to boil, however, after the egg is added, the liquid will curdle. Two or three spoonfuls of milk or cream are sometimes added to the egg. For liaison of roux, see Roux, Brown and ^Vhitc. A' liaison of butter is used to enrich rather than to thicken sauces. It should bo stirred in cold I " ■ at the last moment, and on no account allowed to boil. Lieblg's Extract of Meat. — This valuable ])riparatioii, wlii« li is sold as the pure essence of meat, is so wholesome, stimulating, and economical, that it can scircely be too higldy spoken of. It has again and again been of the highest service in cases of extreme jjros- tration, thus proving its sustaining qualities; and those who have been accustomed to use it as a partial substitute for fresli meat in making soups and sauces will be able to speak of the saving they have thus efi'ected. Care should be taken in preparing it to use boiling water, and a liberal allowance of salt, and also (when it is intended for invalids) to make it rather weak at first, until the patient has become accustomed to its peculiar flavour. It should be understood, however, that the extract of meat, although it is stimulating and sustianing, contains a small proportion only of real nourishment. This should be borne in mind in making soups and sauces. Generally speaking, a mixture of meat and extract will be found to be more satisfactorj' than if the extract is used alone. Probable cost, Is. 6d. for two ounces. Liebig's Extract of Meat, Beef Tea from.--Dissolve a tea-spoonful of Liebig's ex- tract in half a piut of water, stir it until dissolved, add half a tea-spoonful of salt, and serve imme- diately. Time, two or three minutes. Probable cost, l^d. Sufficient for haK a pint of beef tea. Liebig's Extract of Meat, Cheap and Nourishing Soup made from.— Buy two peimyworth of fresh bones, wash them well, break them into small pieces, and put them into a stewpan with four quarts of cold water. Bring the liquid to a boil, remove the scimi as it rises, and simmer very gently for five hours. Two large onions stuck with two cloves, two carrots, two turnips, a bunch of parsley, and half a dozen of the outer sticks of a head of celery should be boiled with it for the last hour and a half, and if it is wished to thicken the soup, two table-spoonfuls of sago, rice, or tapioca may be put in as well. Strain the soup, and add, whilst boiling hot, two table-spoonfuls of Liebig's extract of meat. Add salt and pepper to taste, and ser^-e very hot. Probable cost, 4d. per pint. Sufficient for seven or eight persons. Liebig's Extract of Meat, Gravy from {sec Gravy from Liebig's Extract, &c.). Liebig's Sandwiches.—Very appetising and nutritious sandwiches may be made for travellers or invalids from Liebig's extract of meat. Cut two sHces of thin bread and butter, remove the crust, and spread a little of the extract very thinly over one of the pieces, with a little mustard, press the other slice of bread and butter upon it, and cut it into neat pieces. Time, five minutes to prepare. Liebig's Soup for Children.—Put a table-spoonful of flour into a bowl, with a table- spoonful of finely-groimd malt and seven grains and a quarter of bicarbonate of potash. Mix these ingredients smoothlv with two table-spoonfuls of cold water, then add gradually, stirring all the time, ten table-spoonfuls of new milk. Put the( 3dl ) LIL LIN mixture into a saucepan, and let it simmer gently until it thickens, tlien take the pan from the iire, and stir it until it again becomes iluid. Boil it for five minutes, strain it through a Bieve, and it will be ready for use. Probable cost, 3d. Sufficient for half a pint of soup. Lillian's Delight.—Take a pound of any good cake, made without currants, cut it into slices rather more than an inch thick, and stamp these into rounds or diamonds, about the size of a cro\\Ti-piece; scoop a hole in the middle of each round, half an inch deep, and three-parts fill it with nicely-whipped cream, spread a little jam on the top, ancl cover the cakes entirely with an icing made as follows :— Put the whites of two eggs and half a pound of finely-sifted loaf sugar into a basin, add two or three drops of lemon-juice now and then, and work the ingredients well together with a wooden spoon, until the mixture looks like a thick white cream, when it is ready for use. The icing should be spread %n the cakes about a quarter of an inch thick, and after it is put on they should be put in a warm screen, and left there untU the icing is quite hard. Pro- bable cost of cake, Is. per pound. Lime.—The lime is a variety of the lemon, but is much smaller, being only about an inch or an inch and a half in diameter. Its cultiva- tion in Europe is by no means extensive, but in the "West Indies it is held in high esteem, being more acid and cooling than the lemon. Lime punch is there considered superior to any other. Lime-juice is imported into Britain like lemon-juice for the manufacture of citric acid. Lime Flower Tea (for indigestion).— Pom- a quart of boiling water over an ounce of lime-liowers, cover closely, and let it stand for a few 'minutes, then strain the tea, sweeten it with two table-spoonfuls of honey, and drink a cupful as hot as possible. Probable cost, 3d. or 4d. Sufficient for a quart of tea. Limes, To Preserve.—Take half a dozen limes; make three or four slight cuts in the rind of each; rub them well with two ounces of salt; and put them in a warm place, turning them occasionally, until they are softened, whch will be in about five days. Boil as much \dnegar as -will cover them, with a quarter of a pound of mustard-seed, a quarter of a pound of bruised ginger, and one oimce of whole pepper, to each quart. Put the softened limes with the salt, &c., into a jar; pour the boiling vinegar upon them, and let them stand for twenty-four hours. Tie a skin over the top, and store in a cool, dry place. Limes, To Preserve (another way).— Take a dozen limes, weigh them, and put aside double their weight in loaf sugar. Boil them m two or three waters until the rind is suf- ficiently tender for a fork or skewer to pierce it easily. Drain them, cut them into thin slices, carefully removing the pips, and put them into a deep jar. Boil the sugar to a clear sjTup, and put half a pint of water with every pound and a qu;irter of sugar. Pour this syrup, when boiling, over the fruit; let it remain for two days. Turn the whole into a preserving-pan, boil for a quarter of an hoar, then put the fruit into jars. Cover these securely, and be careful to store them m a cool, dry place. Limpets.—In some parts limpets are used for food, and though coarse, are not unwhole- some. They merely require boihng in a little salt and water for a few minutes. The limpet, when raw, is said to be ijoisonous. Ling.—Ling is a fish of the same species as hake, and, like that fish, is both cheai) and nourishing. It is a native of the northern seas. In form it is not unlike the cod, but it is more slender, and grows to the length of six or seven feet. Its colour is gray, inclining to olive; the belly, silvery; the fins, edged with white. The tail-fin is rounded. The ling is a very voracious fish, feeding principally on smaller fishes. It is captured in vast quantities off the Orkney, Shetland, and Western Islands, and is also found near the Scilly Islands, and LIKG. ofp Flamborough Head. In Britain it is little used as food. It is in perfection from Feb- ruary to the end of May. "When ling are less than twenty-six inches long they are called drizzles on the Yorkshire coast, and are con- sumed by the natives, being thought an excel- lent fish. "When large they are coarse. They are salted, dried, and exported to Spain, and other southern pai-ts of Eui'ope, where the live fish are not met with. The sounds and roes are salted separately. The liver yields an oil simi- lar to cod-Hver oil. "When boiled it is insipid, but when fried or baked is both palatable and wholesome. A very good pie may also be made from it. Ling, Saked.—Cut four pounds of ling into slices, and put these into a baking-dish. Dredge weU with flour, and spiinlde over them two tea-spoonfuls of salt, half a tea- spoonful of white pepper, and half a tea-spoon- ful of pounded mace. Divide three ounces of fresh butter into small pieces, and place these here and there upon the fish. Hub a table- spoonful of flour smoothly into half a pint of rnilk; pour this over the fish, and bake in a moderate oven. Serve on a hot dish, and garnish with toasted sippets. Time to bake, one hour. Probable cost. Is. 8d. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Ling, Tried.—Take two pounds of fresh ling, cut it into slices three-quarters of an inch tliick, rub these over with pepper and salt, dredge a little flour over them, and after- wards egg and bread-crumb them, and fry in boiling fat. Parsley and butter, or lemon andLIT LIN ( 382 ) an ounce of Spanish liquorice may be put with, the linseed if the tea be wanted for any one with a cough. Sufficient for one person. Liqueurs.—The name liqueur is applied to any alcohoUc preparation flavoured, perfumed, or sweetened so as to be more agreeable to the taste. These preparations are very numerous; the follo^ving are amongst the principal:— Absinthe, which is spirit sweetened and flavoured with the young tops of a species of nrtemisia. Aniseed cordial, made by imparting to weak spirit the flavour of aniseed, coriander, and sweet fennel seed, and sweetening it with a highly- clarified sjTup of refined sugar. Clove cordial, flavoured with bruised cloves, and coloured with liver sauce may be served with them. T'ime to fry, ten minutes. Probable cost, lOd. Suf- ficient for three persons. Ling Pie.—Take three or four pounds of the thiu part of a salt ling, wash it m two or three waters, and lot it soak for a couple of hours; then put it into a fish-kottlo, with as much water as will cover it, and lot it boil slowly until done enough. Tako ofl: the skin, and put layers of the fish into a pie-dish, with four hard-boiled eggs cut into slices, a little chopped parsley, two tea-spoonfuls of salt, half a tea- spoonful of cayenne, and half a tea-spoonful of pounded mace strewn amongst them. Add three ounces of fresh butter divided into small pieces; pour over the fish a quarter of a pint of gravy. Line the edges of the dish with a good crust, place a cover of the same over the top, brush it over with egg, and bake in a brisk oven. Before serving pour a cupful of waim cream into the pie. Time to bake, about one hour and a half. Probable cost of ling, 4d. per pound. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Ling, Slices of, Stewed.—Cut about one pound of fresh Hng into sUces nearly three- quarters of an inch thick, rub them over with pepper and salt, and fry them in boiling fat for about ten minutes. Place them in a stewpan, and cover them with a little stock. Put with them a sprig of parsley, a stick of celery, a quarter of a blade of mace, a quarter of a tea- spoonful of white pepper, and a small piece of thin lemon-rind, and simmer gently for half an hour. Put the slices on a hot dish, and after straining the gravy, and thickening with flour and butter, pom- it boiling over them. Serve as hot as possible. A tea-spoonful of lemon- juice may be added or not. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for two persons. Linseed.—This is the seed of the flax plant. It is small, oval, oblong, acute at the extremities, glossy, and brown. Internally it is white. The taste of linseed is mucilaginous and oily. The infusion of linseed in boiling water yields a demulcent mucilage, which is much used as a domestic medicine in coughs (see Linseed Tea). The linseed shordd not bo boiled in the water, as that extracts the oil contained in the linseed as well as the mucilage, and renders the decoction nauseating. Linseed Tea (Invalid Cookeky).—Put an ounce of linseed into a jug, pour over it a pint of boiling water, cover closely, and let it stand for half an hour. Pour it into another and serve either hot or cold. Half burnt Bugaz-. Curuvoa, of winch the reader will fand an account under its proper lieudiug. K.u-BchwaBHer is made in (ji(;i-maiiy and .Switzer- land trom cherry.juice fermented. The name Bigmlies cherry-water. Large quantities are nmuuiactmed in the Black Forest. This Uqueui- always contains some prussic acid from the cherry-stones, and sometimes so much hh to bo almost poisonous. In Kiiimnel, or iJoppel- Kiimmel, we liavo the chief Uqueur of Kussia. It is prepared in the usual way with sweetened spirit, flavoured with cumin and caraway-seeds, the latter being generally so largely employed as to conceal any other flavour. The principal seat of its manufacture is Kiga; a superior 801-t of Kiimmel, however, is made at Weissen- stein, in Esthonia. The principal difference between the Riga and the Weissenstein article lies in the greater purity of the spirit used at the latter place, llaraschino is distilled from bruised cherries. The wild fruit is not used, but a deHcately-flavoui-ed variety grown only in Dalmatia. Noyau, or Creme de Noyau, is a sweet cordial flavoured with bitter almonds (bruised). Peppermint is a common liqueur, much in demand amongst the lower classes in the metropolis. Generally it consists of ordi- nary sweetened gin, flavoui-ed with the essential oil of peppermint, which is pre-viously rubT^ed up with refined sugar, to enable it to miy with the^very weak spirit. the following liqueurs work imder their re- Recipes for making will be found in this spective headings:— Cherky Brandy- CURA90A CURR.U^T Four-Fruit Ginger Cordial Hawthorn Jet,ly Lemon Liquorice and i\lACARONI Mead Noyau Orange Punch Ratafia Shrub Syrup por Liqueurs. Liquorice Root.— Liquorice is a long and creeping root, procured from a plant of the pod-bearing tribe. It is culti- vated in England, but is a native chiefly of Spain and of Southern Europe. The extract of the root is known as " black sugar," "stick hquo- rice," "Spanish juice," or "hard extract of liquorice." It forms the basis of several kinds of lozenges, and is added generally to soothing drinks. It is employed, as every one knows, as a demulcent remedy in coughs and other complaints. Even when used in considerable quantity it does -not disorder the stomach, or even create thirst hke common sugar. Little Ladies' Tart (a pretty dish for a juvenile party).—Rub four ounces of fresh butter into half a poimd of flour. Add a pinch of salt, tlii-ee oimces of pounded sugfir, and three well-beaten eggs. Work those ingi-edionts into a firm iwste, and roll it out tlrcce or four times, dredging liglitly with flour to prevent it sticking to the board.' Slake it into a round shape, about quarter of an inch in thickness, ornamcni the outside edge with a fork or si)oon, put it on an oven plate, and bake in a quick oven, "\^^lon sufficiently cooked, take it out and let it cool. Just before serving, spread lightly over it different coloured jellies and( 383 ) LIT LIV jams, laid in strips from the centre like the spokes of a wheel. Time, about twcnty-fivo minutes to bake. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Suf- ficient for five or six persons. Little Mary's Cup Puddings.— Grate the rind of a large fresh lemon upon two ounces of finely-sifted sugar. Mix a dessert-spoonful of the juice -^vith half a pint of cold water. Dissolve the sugar in this over the fire; add a quarter of a pound of butter, and wine-glassful of sherry, or any other light wine, and when the butter is melted, pour the mixture out to cool. ]Mix four ounces of flour very smoothly with three well-beaten eggs, add the cooled liquid very gradually, and stir the batter over the fii'e for three minutes. Take some well-buttered cups, three-parts fiU them with the mixture, and bake in a quick oven. Turn the puddings out of the cups before serving, and sift a little powdered sugar over them. Time to bake, half an hour. Pro- bable cost, exclusive of the vnne, lOd. Suf- ficient for six or eight persons. Liver and Ham, Forcemeat of, for Raised Pies, &C.—Take half a pound of calf's liver, and half a poimd of fat bacon. Cut the meat into one-inch squares, and fry them lightly, putting in the bacon first, and when it is half done adding the liver. Season with a small tea-spoonful of herbaceous seasoning and a little salt. When the liver is half cooked, take it and the bacon up, drain them from the fat, mince finely, then pound them in a mortar to a smooth paste, pass this thi'ough a coarse seive, and put the forcemeat aside for use. Probable cost, 9d. per poimd. Liver and Kidney Pudding {see Kidney and Liver Pudding). Liver and Lemon Sauce for Fowls (see Lemon and Liver Sauce). Liver and Parsley Sauce.—Take the liver of a fowl or rabbit—be careful that it is perfectly fresh—wash it, and boil it for five minutes in a quarter of a pint of water, ilince it very finely, pound it in a mortar, and mix -with it a table-spoonful of scalded and chopped parsley. Stir both into a quarter of a pint of good melted butter. Let the sauce remain on the fire until it is quite hot, but it must not boil. Time, one minute to heat the sauce. Probable cost, 2d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Liver, Fat RagoSt of.—Take the livers of two largo fat geese. Eemove the gall-bag, taking care that no yellow spots are left near the place where it was, then lay the livers in milk for some hours to whiten them. Put them into a stewpan, and cover them with equal parts of good gravy stock and light wine. Put with them a bunch of parsley, two sliced shallots, a tea-spoonful of bruised pepper and ginger mixed, four bruised cloves, a bay-leaf, and a little salt. It is probable that very little of the last-named ingredient will be required, as the gravy and stock will doubtless contain salt sutficicnt f-'over the saucepan closely, and simmer gently" When the livers avo done enough, drain theiu from the liquid, and reduce the latter by rapid boiling to the consistency of sauce. This ragout may either be used as a garnish, or it may be served as a 8ej)arato dish. A\Tien the latter is the case, the livers should bo placed upon a dish, and the yolks of two eggs beaten up with quarter of a pint of cream added to the reduced liquid, and poured over them. Time to simmer the livers, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost imcertain, livers being generally bought with the geese. Sufficient for four or five persons. Liver, Forcemeat of {see Forcemeat of Liver). Liver, Fried.—Cut one pound of Uver into slices, a quarter of an inch in thickness, and dredge some fioui- over them. Take an equal number of slices of bacon, fat and lean together. Fry the bacon first, and when it is done enough, draw the rashers from the fat, and place them on a hot dish. Fry the slices of liver in the same fat, and when lightly browned on both sides, dish bacon and liver in a circle, a slice of each alternately. Pour the fat from the pan, and dredge a little flour into it. Add a quarter of a pint of broth, a little salt and pepper, and a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup. Stir smoothly together until the sauce boils, and pour it into the dish with the liver. Garnish with sliced lemon. If Hked, a table-spoonful of finely-minced gherkins or pickled walnuts may be added to the sauce. Time, a quarter of an hour to fry the liver. Probable cost, 9d. per pound. Sufiicient for four or five persons. Liver Fried (another way).—Take one pound of fresh liver, and a few rashers of bacon. Cut the liver into neat slices, a quarter of an inch thick, and dip each slice in a mixture made of one table-spoonful of flour, one tea-spoonful of salt, and one of pepper. Cover the bottom of the frying-pan with some clear dripping, about quarter of an inch in depth. Place the pan on the fire, and when the dripping ceases hissing, put in the liver and bacon. The bacon will be done first; remove it, and in five minutes turn the liver. When the latter is -done enough, dish it with the liver, and serve very hot. A little sauce may be made as in the last recipe. Time, a qiiarter of an h&ur. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Sufiicient for two or tliree persons. Liver Kldsse (a German recipe).-Take half a pound of raw liver, and two ounces of fat bacon. Mmce them together very finely • add a little salt and pepper, and finely-minced parsley, together with three ounces of finelv- gi-ated bread-crumbs. Mix three well-beaten eggs with an ounce and a half of butter which has been worked with the fingers to a cream. Put these with the mince, then make cW'If "i? «^&-«haped baUs^ beLg M^iiX^SdS:^!^.-^LIV LOA ( S84 ) Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for four or five persons. Liver Klosse (anollior way).—Take a largo slice of t\w cninib of a stale loaf. I'our half a pint of milk over it, and lot it soak for half an hour. Press the licjuid fioni it, and mix with it half a pound of linely-minccd raw liver, the grated rind of half a small lemon, two table-spoonfuls of cliopped parsley, one of chives, and a little pepper and salt. Urcdgo a table-spoonful of flour over these ingredients, and stir in two well-beaten eggs. Make the mixture up into ogg-sliapod klcisse, drop them into boiling water or broth, and boil them until done enough. Before serving, fry two ounces of chopped bacon in a little butter, and pom- this over the klosse. If any remain, they may be sliced, dipped into beaten egg and bread-crumbs, and fried in hot fat. Time to boil, about half an hour. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for four persons. Liver Klosse, for Soup (a German recipe).—Take half a calf's liver, and mince it small. Mix with it four ounces of finely- shred suet, two table-spoonfuls of chopped parsley, a little pepper and salt, the well- beaten yolks of four and the whites of two eggs, and ss much crumb of bread soaked in milk and pressed dry as will bind it together. Form into egg-shaped balls, cook these in boiling water, and serve in soup. Half a tea- spoonful of any herb powder that is hked may be added with the parsley. Time to boil, half an hour. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for six cr seven persons. Liver Puddings.—Take half an ox liver; clear it from skin, boil, and grate it. IMix with it its bulk in bread-crumbs, and finely-shred suet. Season rather highly with black pepper; add a little salt, grated nutmeg, and a glassful of rum. Have the pudding skins well cleaned, tie one end, and turn them inside out. Half fill them with the mixture, and tie them in three or four places at equal distances. Put them into water which is nearly on the point of boiling. In five minutes prick them with a large darning needle to prevent them bursting, and let them boil for half an hour. Liver sausages should be kept in a cool place until wanted for use. Before serving, boil for a quarter of an hour, and then broil them. Probable cost, exclusive of the rum, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for ten or twelve persons. Liver Sauce for Fish.—Stew the liver in some of tlie gravy in which the fish was boiled until quite tender. ]\Iince it finely, and Dound it in a mortar with half a tea-spoonful of diy mustard. Tliicken half a pint of gravy ■with a small piece of butter rolled in flour; add the liver, some salt, and a tea-spoonful of chilli vinegar. Let all boil up once, and serve. Time, a quarter of an hour to boil the li^'er. Suffi- cient for four or six persons. Probable cost, 3d. Liver Sauce for Roast Hare.—Be euro that the liver is quite sweet. Wash it in two or three waters, and stew it in a-^piarter of a pint of good beef gravy, then ininCi; it finely, and with it a clove of shallot, two table-spoonfuls of picked parsley, and a quarter of a toa73poonful of thymo. lioturn the liver to tlx(; saucepan; lot all boil up together. Th(;n add a tea- spoonful of chilli vijiegar, two table-spoonfuls of cui-rant jelly, and two of poit. TJiis sauce may be us(;d for roast rabbit, if a glassful of sherry bo substituted for the port and jelly. Serve immediately. Time, a quarter of an hour to boil the liver. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for six persons. Liver Sausages. — Take an uncooked pig's liver. Mince finely, bruise it, and afterwards rul) it through a colander. Mix. with it half its weight in boile'd pork, finely minced, and add Imlf a pound of fat bacon chopped small. Season i-ather higliiy with salt, pepper, and powdered cloves. Tiiree-parts fill some thick skins with tlie mixture; put them into boiling salt and water, and let them simmer very gently. A little i)ounded onion or powdered sage may be added, if the flavour is liked. The sausages may be eaten either cold Avith bread and butter or hot. If eaten hot they do not require boiling before thej- are fried. Time, half an hour to simmer. Pro- bable cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Liver Sausages [see Mecklenburg Liver Sausages). Liver Sausages, Mecklenburg, Smoked.—Take one pound of^Jhe cuttings of pork, and one pound of sward, or the skin of the pig cut from the loins. The tongue and kidneys, and a little fat may be added, S liked. Cut the meat into slices, and boil all gently in as httle water as possible until quite tender. The sward should be jDut upon the fire before the rest of the meat, as it will require much longer boihng. Mince all very finely, and mix in the raw Hver, which has been chopped and bruised and pressed through a coai-se sieve. Season rather highly with salt, pepper, and half a dozen powdered cloves. Pour over the mince the fat which has risen to the top of the hquid in which the meat was boiled, and add, if approved, either a bruised shallot or a tea- spoonful of powdered or grated lemon-rind. "When filling the skins, remember to leave room for swelling, and simmer the sausages gentlj' in the same liquid in which the meat was boiled. The hver sausages may be used fresh or smoked as preferred. If smoked, two diiys win be long enough for them to hang. Time to boil large skins, one hour: small skins, Imlf an hour. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Loach..—The loach is a small fish, usually about three inches long, with a round body with six wattles or barbs at its mouth. In Scotland it is known as the boardie. It is not very common, but is met with occasionally in small brooks and rivulets. Tlic_ use it is chiefly put to is to serve as bait for eels and perch, Init it is worthy of being brought under the cook's notice, it is delicious fried in batter, or with eggs and crumbs of bread. Loaf Cake.—3Iix one ]wund and a half of flour with three-quart(TS of a ])ound of moist sugar; add an ounce of caraway seeds, and eight wcll-beatcn eggs. Mix thoroughly oneLOA C 385 ) LOB table-spoonful of yeast, a table-spoonful of milk, and a table-spoonful of water, and stir these into the cake. Put the mixture on one Bide a Httle time, and when it is risen mould it lightly; put it into a weU-buttered tin, and bake in a moderate oven for about two hours. Probable cost. Is. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Loaf Cake, for Luncheon, fee- Beat half a pound of fresh butter to a cream. Mix with it six ounces of moist sugar and six ■well-beaten eggs. Add one pound of flour, three table-spoonfuls of rose-water, one table- £fpoonful of finely-chopped lemon-rind, one small nutmeg, grated, half a tea-spoonful of powdered cinnamon, a table-spoonful of dis- solved salerdtus, and a small tea-cupful of milk. Beat all thoroughly. Line an earthen cake- mould with buttered paper, pour in the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven for about two hours. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Loaf Cake of Indian Meal.—Rub four ounces of fresh butter into one pound of Indian meal. Pour over it as much boihng milk as will make it into a thick batter, and when this is cool stir into it two well-beaten eggs. Stone a quarter of a pound of raisins. Wash, pick, and dry a quarter of a pound of currants. Dredge over them as much line flour as will adhere to them, and stir them into the batter, and afterwards stir in six ounces of moist sugar. Pour the mixtirre into a weU-buttered mould, and bake in a moderate oven for two hours. Probable cost. Is. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Loaves, Mecca {see Mecca Loaves). Loaves, Oyster {^ee Oysters, Loaves of). Lobster.—This shell fish is in season from the beginning of April to the end of October, so that it, to a certain extent, .supplies the place during these months of the oyster. It is highly esteemed, and may be served in various ways. Medium-sized lobsters are the best for eating, and very small ones, which are the cheapest, may be used for sauce. The flesh of the male, or cock lobster as it is termed, is more delicate than that of the hen, and its shell assumes a brighter red after boil- ing. The hen is valued, however, on account of the spawn, which is used for making sauce, and the coral for garnishing salads, &c. The common lobster sometimes weighs as much as ten or twelve pounds when loaded with spawn, but a lobster of one pound weight, or even less, is considered fit for the market. When boiled, its beautifully clouded and varied bluish-black turns to a nearly uniform red. Lobsters are certainly nutritive, but not so much so as is commonly supposed. Not being easily di- gested, they require condiments, of which the most proper are those most frequently used, namely, vinegar and pepper. On some consti- tutions lobsters have a pernicious effect, and occasion eruptions of the skin and other dis- tressing symptoms of derangement. Great care should be taken that they are in good condition, and quite fresh. When stale, they are imwholesome in a high degree. \ Lobster (a la Braise).—ASfe Lobster, Baked. Lobster (a la Crfime). — Pick the meat from a large fresldy-boiled cock lobster, mince it finely, and put it into a saucepan with half a tea-spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of white pepper, the eighth of a nutmeg, grated, two tea-spoonfuls of vinegar, and one of light wine. When quite hot, put with it two ounces of fresh butter, lightly rolled in flour, and a quarter of a pint of thick cream. Simmer gently for ten minutes, stirring aU the time, and when thoroughly heated put the mixture into the shell of the lobster, place it on a neatly-folded napkin, and garnish with parsley. Probable cost of lobster, 2s. to Ss. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Lobster (a la Fran(,'ai8e).—Pick the flesh from a medium-sized fresh lobster, and cut it into small dice. Stir two table-spoonfuls of cream into a quarter of a pint of white stock, season with a little salt, cayenne, and pounded mace, put it into a stewpan with the lobster, and let it simmer very gently. Scrape the shell, and put it upon a dish with a border of puff paste round it. Pour the mixture into this, cover rather thickly with fine bread- crumbs, and brown it by holding over it an iron shovel which has been made red-hot. Time, to simmer five or six minutes. Probable cost of medium-sized lobster. Is. 6d., when in full season. Sufficient for four or five persons. Lobster and Oyster Pie.—Pick the meat from the tails of two freshly-boiled lob- sters, and cut it into neat pieces, which must be seasoned with a little pepper, salt, and poimded mace. Bruise the shells and spawn, and make a little gravy from them. Pound the flesh from the claws and bodies to a smooth paste, mix with it a slice of bread finely-gi-ated, six ounces of fresh butter, three table-spoonfuls of vinegar, and a little pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Line the edges and sides of a pie-dish with good puff paste. Put in the slices of lobster, then two dozen oysters with their liquid, and after- wards the pounded meat. Lay the cover over all, and bake in a moderate oven for an hour and a quarter. Before serving, strain a little of the gravy from the shells into the pie. When the pastry is cooked enough the pie is done. Probable cost of lobsters, Is. 6d. each, sufficient for eight or nine persons. Lobster and Prawn Soup {see Prawm and Lobster Soup). Lobster, Baked (or Lobster k la Braise). —Take the flesh of a large fresh hen lobster, chop it small, then pound it in a mortar, and mix with it a quarter of a small nutmeg, grated, three grains of cayenne, half a salt- spoonful of salt, two table-spoonfuls of fine bread-crumbs, and two well-beaten eggs. Shape the mixture with the hands into its original form. Pound the coral and spawn, and lay them on the meat; then bake in a quick oven. Before serving, put the shell, taU, and small claws upon the meat in such a way as to make it have the aj pearance of an undressed lobster. Bake a quarter of an hour. Proba>)le cost of a medium-sized lobster, when in full season. Is. 6d. Sufficient for six or seven persons. '( 386 ) LOB LOB Lobster Balls.—Pick the meat from a largo tiDslily-boilod lien lobster, luinco it very linuly, and poimd it in a mortar, with a salt- Bpoonl'ul of wliito ijoppur, half a salt-spoonful of salt, throe grains of cayenne, the eighth of a nutmeg, grated, and two ounces of clariliod butter. Make the mixture up into balls the trize of a largo egg. Dip those into beaten egg, and then into fine dry broad-crumbs. Let them stand a few minutes, tlien dip them a second time. Fry them in boiling fat till they are lightly browned all over; drain them from the grease, and servo them on a neatly-folded hot napkin. Garnish with parsley. Time, ten minutes to fry. Probable cost of large lobster, from 28. to 38. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Lobster Bashaws.—Prepare the lobster as in the last recipe. Divide the shell into quarters, scrape these thoroughly, and sprinkle over the inside of them some fine dried bread- crumbs. Put in the mixture, cover it thickly wth bread-crumbs, po.ui' over the top a quarter of a pound of clarified butter, an ounce over each quarter, and bake in a quick oven. Serve the meat in the shells, neatly arranged on a hot napkin, and garnish with bright green parsley. If on being taken out of the oven the lobster is not sufficiently browned, hold a red-hot iron shovel over it for two or three minutes. Time, ten minutes to bake. Pro- bable cost of a large lobster, from 28. to 3s. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Lobster, Boiled.—Wash the lobster well before boiling, especially if it be a hen, tie the claws securely, and throw the lobster, liead first, into plenty of fast-boiling salt and water. If this be done life will be destroyed instantly. Afterwards let it boil gently. When done enough, take it out, wipe it, and rub the shell with a little salad-oil, which wUl give it a clear red colour. Care should be taken not to boil a lobster too long, or the meat will be stringy. The Germans put a handful of cara- way-seeds into the salt and water. If not sufficiently boiled the spawn will not be brightly coloured. Time, moderate-sized lobster, fifteen to twenty minutes; large lobster, thirty to forty minutes; very large, one hour. Probable cost, from Is. 6d. to 3s. Lobster, Broiled.—Take a medium-sized freshly-boiled cock lobster, split it open from head to tail, remove what are called the lady fingers, which are not to be eaten, sprinkle a little white pepper over the meat, and place pieces of butter here and there upon it. Lay the shells open upon a gridiron above a bright, clear fire, and when quite hot, serve on a neatly- folded napkin. Time to broil, a quarter of an hour. Sufficient for four or five persons. Pro- bable cost, Is. 6d. to 38. Lobster Butter.—Take the spawn or coral of a hen lobster and pound it m a mortar with a little salt and cayenne pepper, and twice the weight in fresh butter. Kub the mixture through a sieve, and put it in a cool place until wanted for use. This butter will keep a long time, and as lobsters with 8pu\\Ti cannot always bo obtained, the cook should endeavour to keep some always on liand, as it is noodod for sauce, and other dishes. S])ocial caj-t! slujuld be taken to break the seeds when pounding th(3 spawn. M'hon the spawn cannot be had, pound tlie shell of the lobster very finely with a quarter of a pound <jf fresh butter. Put it in a jar, and place this jar in a saucepan of boiling water. Let it boil gently for an hour, then press the butter through a cloth into a baxin of cold water. When it has stiffened, lift it from the water, drain it, pass it through a sieve, and mix with it an equal quantity of fresh butter. Probable cost of lobster, la. 6d. and upwards. Lobster, Buttered.—Pick the meat from a largo freshly-boiled cock lobster. Mince it finely, and put it into a stewpan with an ounce and a half of fresh butter rolled in flour. Stir it over a gentle fire until quive hot, then add the eighth of a nutmeg, grated, a dessert- spoonful of chilli vinegar, or, if this is not at hand, common vinegar may be used, and three grains of cayenne, with half a salt- spoonful of white pepper in it. Two table-spoonfuls of rich gravy are a great improvement to this dish. Stir the mixture gently over the fire until it is quite hot. Serve it in the shell of the lobster with bread-crumbs over the meat. Time to simmer, ten minutes. Probable cost, from 2s. 6d. to 38. 6d. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Lobster, Buttered (another way).— Pick the meat from a large freshly-boiled cock lobster. Mince it finely, and put it into a stew- pan with an ounce and a half of butter, rolled in flour, half a salt-spoonful of salt, a salt- spoonful of white pepper, the eighth of a small nutmeg, grated, a wine-glassful of sherrj', the same of rich gravy, and a table-spoonful of lemcn-pickle. When quite hot, put the mix- ture into the shells, and garnish with parsley and small three-cornered pieces of toasted bread. Time to heat, about a quarter of an hour. Pro- bable cost, 3s. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Lobster, Choosing a.—Unboiled lobsters should be heavy and full of motion, which is an indication of their being fresh. If they are thickly crusted, they are old. Medium-sized lobsters, when heavy, are often better than large ones. The flavour of the flesh of the cock lobster is finer than that of the hen. It may be known by the narrowness of the back part of the tail, and by the stiffness of the two uppermost fins within it. When lobsters are freshly boiled their tails are stiff, and when lightly puUed return with a spring. Lobster, Cold.—Take off the large claws and crack the shell lightly, without disfiguring the fish. Split open the tail with a sharj) knife, and dish the fish on a folded napkin, with the head in an upright position in the centre, and the tail and claws arranged neatly round it. Garnish with parsley. Salt, cayenne, mus- tard, salad-oil, and ^nnegar should be eaten with it. Sufficient, a medium-sized lobster for two or three persons. Lobster, Cold, Dressed. — Pick the meat from the shell, mince it finely, and mix it with a little salad-dressing, or with a few bread- crumbs, a little salad-oil, salt, pepper, musti^nLLOB C 387 ) LOB and \'inegar, the quantities to be regulated "by taste and the size of the lobster. Probable cost, from Is. 6d. Sufficient, a medium-sized lobster for two or three persons. Lobster Croquettes. — Pick the meat carefully from the shell of a freshly-boiled hen lobster, and mince it very finely. Pound the coral and spawn in a mortar, and mix with it a little grated nutmeg, three grains of cayenne, a tea-spoonful of anchovy sauce, two table-spoon- fuls of white sauce, and the well-beaten yolks of thi-ee eggs. Add the minced lobster, and stir all these ingredients over a gentle fire until the egg is set. Spread the mixture on a plate, and when cold, make it up into the shape of corks. Dip these in beaten egg, roll them in bread-crumbs, and fry them in hot fat until they are lightly browned all over. Drain them, and pile them upon a folded napkin, in a hot dish. Garnish with par&ley. Time, eight minutes to fry. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for four or five persons. Lobster Curry.—Pick the meat from the shell of a freshly-boiled medium-sized lobster, and cut it into neat square pieces. Mix a dessert-spoonful of curry smoothly with a quar- ter of a pint of good stock. Mince two onions finely. Fry them in a little butter until they are tender without being browned, dredge a tea-spoonful of flour over them, pour over them the curry powder and stock, and stir the mix- ture imtil it thickens. Put in the pieces of lobster, and stew gently for half an hour. Just before serving, add a table-spoonful of strained lemon-juice. Put the lobster on a hot dish, pour the sauce over it, and send rice boiled as for curries to table with it. Probable cost, 28. Sufficient for three or four persons. Lobster Cutlets.—Cut the meat from a moderate-sized hen lobster into small dice. Beat half an ounce of butter and an ounce of dour over the fire till smooth, then add a gill of water, boil, and stir in a table-spoonful of cream, six drops of lemon-juice, salt, pepper, and cayenne, with lobster butter [see Lobster Butter) to redden the whole, and the lobster meat. Stir i he mixture over the fire, pour it on a plate till cold, then flour lightly and form into cutlets about a third of an inch thick and three inches long, stick a little piece of one of the small claws into each, dip each into beaten egg, and roll it in bread-crumbs. Let the cutlets stand a few minutes, then dip them in egg and bread-crumbs a second time. Fry them in hot fat until they are lightly coloured, and lace each cutlet as it is finished on a piece of lotting-paper before the fire. Arrange in a circle on a hot dish, and garnish with parsley. Time, two or three minutes to fry. Probable cost, 28. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Lobster, Cutlets (another way).— See Cutlets of Lobster or Crab. Lobster Cutlets, Quickly Made.— Choose a verj' large lobster. Let it be half boiled; take the flesh out whole, cut it into slices a quarter of an inch thick, and dip these into beaten egg and highly-seasoned bread-crumbs. Let them stand ten minutes, then dip them again, and fry them in hot butter till they are lightly browned all over. Drain them from the fat, and arrange them in a circle on a not dish, pour a quarter of a pint of lobster sauc :nto the centre, and send to table as hot as possible. Hot pickles should accompany this dish. The sauce should be made in the ordinary way. Time, eight minutes to fry. Probable cost, 3s. Sufficient for five or six persons. Lobster, Dressed, with Sauce Piquant.—Pick the meat from the body and claws of a freshly-boiled cock lobster, and divide it into neat pieces, about half an inch square. Take the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs, pound them well, and mix with them a tea-spoonful of raw mustard, half a tea-spoonful of salt, and half a grain of cayenne. Add verj' gradually, by drops at first, beating weU between every addition, four table-spoonfuis of salad-oil, and afterwards two tt.ble spoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, and a dessei-'.-spoonful of very hot chilli vinegar. This sauce ought to be of the consistency of good cream. Pour it just before serving over the lobster, and garnish with parsley. Time, half an hour to prepare. Pro- bable cost, 2s. Sufficient for three or four persons. Lobster Fricassee.—Pick the meat from the tail and claws of a medium-sized lobster, cut it into small squares, and put these in a saucepan with half a pint of good white sauce, pound the coral, and mix it smoothly with the liquid. Season with half a salt-spoonful of salt and half a salt-spoonful of white pepper and pounded mace mixed. When the mixtiire is on the point of boiling take it from the fire, let it cool a moment, then add a table-spoonful of strained lemon-juice. The white sauce may be made of a quarter of a pint of good beef stock and a quarter of a pint of cream, thickened with a little arrowroot; or, if no beef stock is at hand, the shell of the lobster may be boiled in half a pint of water and cream, flavouring and thicken- ing being added to it. Time, about ten minutes to bring the sauce to the boiling point. Pro- bable cost, 28. 6d. Sufficient for four or five persona. Lobster, Gratin of. —Take the meat from a good-sized lobster, cut the body in half, and pick out all the meat, which must be cut into thin slices. Put a piece of butter the size of an egg into a saucepan, with three shallots, finely minced. Brown them lightly, then mix iv a table-spoonful of flour, and when quite sniooth, half a pint of milk. Boil for five minutes. Put in the sliced lobster, a table-spoon- ' f ul of chopped parsley, a little salt and cay enne, and half a tea-spoonful of essence of anchovies. Stir all over the fire, and when boiling diuw the saucepan back, and add the well-beaten yolk of an egg. Fill the shell of the lobster with the mixture, sprinkle bread-crumbs over it, and pour on a little clarified butter. Put the shell in a hot oven for twenty minutes, dish on a napkin, and serve. Probable cost of lobster, 3s. Sufficient for five or six persons. Lobster, Mayonnaise of.—Take out the meat of a freshly-boiled hen lobster, and cut it into small neat squares. Trim and wash two( 388 ) LOB LOB large fresh lettuces, or any other salad, taking gi-eat caro that they arc quite dry hot'mo Ixnng used. Cut or teai- those into nuat pioi.'es, and wrange a layer of them at the bottom of a large dish, place several pieces of lobster upon them, and repeat until the materials are finished. Just bef(jre serving pour over them a sauce made as follows : —Beat the yolkn of two raw eggs for two or three minutes, until they begin to feel thick, add, by drops at first, ten table-spoonfuls of best salad-oil, and four of tarragon vinegiir. The mixture should be as thick and smooth as cream. The secret of making a mayonnaise is to add the liquid gradually, and to beat well between every addition. Season the sauce with half a tea-spoonful of dry mustard, half a salt- spoonful of salt, and half a salt-spoonful of white pepper. Cover the salad with the hquid. At the last moment, sprinkle over it the lobster coral, which has been powdered and well sifted, and garnish the dish with sliced beetroot and hard-boiled eggs. Time, an hour to prepare. Probable cost of lobster. Is. 6d. and upwards. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Lobster, Miroton of.—Soak the crumb of a penny roll until it is quite soft in as much cream as will just cover it. Pick aU the meat from a medium-sized, freshly-boiled hen lobster, pound it with the spawn thoroughly in a mortar, and mix with it the soaked crumb, and the weU-beaten yolks of three fresh eggs. Season with pepper, salt, and pounded mace. Just hefore boiling the mixture, add a whole egg, which has been well whisked. Line a plain round mould with some thin slices of ham, fat and lean together, pour in the mixture, and boil until it is done enough. Send lobster sauce to table with it. Time to boil, an hour and twenty minutes. Probable cost of lobster, Is. 6d. and upwards. SuJaSicient for six or seven persons. Lobster Patties.—Take a medium-sized, freshly-boiled hen lobster, pick out the meat from the tail and claws, mince it finely, and put it into a stewpan with a dessert-spoonful of the spawn, pounded and sifted, an ounce of butter, a tea-spoonf\il of cream, a tea-spoonful of veal jelly, half a tea-spoonful of the essence of anchovies, a tea-spoonful of grated lemon- rind, and a little salt, pepper, pounded mace, and cayenne. Stir the mixture over the fire for a few minutes. Line some patty-pans with good puff paste, which has been rolled out a quarter of an inch thick, put a crust of bread into each, to preserve its form, lay on the covers, ornament the edges with the back of a knife, brush them over with yolk of egg, and hake in a quick oven. When the patties are baked, take out the bread, partially fill them with the hot mixture, replace the covers, and serve immediately. Dish them on a neatly- folded napkin. Time, a quarter of an hour to bake the patties, five minutes to stew the mixture. Probable cost, 3d. each. Sufficient for three dozen patties. Lobster Pie.—Pick the meat from two medium-sized, freshly-boiled lobsters, and^'^* it into small, neat pieces. Bruise the shells !tnd spawn in a mortar, and put them into a stewpan with a quarter of a pint of water, three spoonfuls of vinegar, luilf a tea-spoonful of tialt and pepper, and a quarter of a t(;a-si>oouful of pounded mace. Simmer gently until the goodness is extracted, then strain the giavy, thicken it with an ounctj of butter rolled in Hour, and let it l)oil again. Line the edges of the pie-dish with go(j(l jiuff paste, put in the pieceg of lobster, strain the gravy over them, and strew some finely-grated bread-crumbs on them; lay the cover over ail, and bake in a moderate oven. When the paste is done, the pie is ready. Serve either hot or cold. Time to bake, alx>ut an hour and a quarter. Probable cost of lobsters, Is. 6d. and upwards. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Lobster, Potted.—Pick out all the meat from a medium-sized, freshly-boiled hen lobster, and pound it and the coral in a mortar to a smooth paste. Mix with it a tea-spoonful of anchovy sauce, a grain of cayenne, half a tea- spoonful of white pepper, the eighth part of a nutmeg, grated, and a quarter of a pound of clarified butter. A few shrimps may be added or not. When thoroughly pounded, press the mixture into jars, and pour cool clarified butter over. When the butter is set the lobster is ready to serve. The white meat of the claws should be pounded apart from the rest. Time, an hour and a half to prepare. Probable cost of lobster, Is. 6d. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Lobster, Potted (another way).—Pick the meat from a medium-sized, freshly-boiled hen lobster. Tear the white part into flakes with two forks, and pound a table-spoonful of it with the soft parts and the spawn in a mortar. Use the same seasoning as in the last recipe. When ready, press the red and white meat into jars in layers, and cover with clarified butter. When prepared in this way the appearance of the lobster is better than when the last recipe is followed, but the meat will not keep so long. Time, about an hour and a half to prepare. Probable cost of lobster. Is. 6d. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Lobster, Potted (another way).—Tak ten medium-sized, freshly-boiled lobsters, half o which should be hens, and half cocks. Pick out the red, the spawn, and the soft meat, and divide the white meat into neat pieces. Butter an earthen jar rather thickly. Put in the pieces of lobster in layers. Sprinkle a little seasoning, and place a slice of butter over each layer. When the jar is fuU, tie three or four folds of paper over it, and place it in a moderate oven until it is quite hot. Take out the pieces of lobster, let the butter drain from them, and put them again into the jar with a little of the drained butter. Dissolve the rest of the butter wath a small quantity of white wax, and pour it over the pieces- of lobster when cold. Cover securelv with bladder, and keep in a cool dry place. The seasoning should be pounded in a mortar to a powder, and should consist of a quarter of an ounce ol mace, a nutmeg, three cloves, half an ounce ol white pepper, and an ounce of salt. If" pounds of fresh butter wiU be reqmrod tor this number of lobsters. Time, about halt anLOB LOB ( 889 ) hour to bake. Probable cost of lobsters, Is. 6d. each. Lobster Quenelles.—Pick the meat from a freshly-boilod hen lobster. Pound the flesh of the claws, the coral, and the spawn in a mortar with a quarter of a pound of butter, the flesh of a large whiting, and six ounces of panada {see Panada). Add the yolks of four eggs and the whites of two, and season with a tea-spoonful of anchovy sauce, a pinch of salt, a grain of cayenne, and the eighth of a nutmeg, grated. VVhen thoroughly j)ounded, form the forcemeat into the shape of the bowl of a spoon. The queneUes may be either fried in hot butter, and served with lobster sauce as an entree, or be used for garnish, &c. Time, ten minutes to fry. Probable cost of lobster, Is. 6d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Lobster Quenelles (another way).—See Quenelles, Lobster, for Fish Soups. Lobster, Hissoles of.—Pick the meat from a small newly-boiled fresh lobster. Mince it finely, and mix with it half a tea- spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of finely-shred parsley, and a pinch of cayenne, and pour upon it the strained juice of half a small lemon. Fry an inch of sliced onion in butter until tender, pour over it a quarter of a pint of cream, simmer for three or four minutes, then put in the minced lobster; add the yolks of two eggs, and stir all over the fire untU the eggs are set. Spread the mixture on a dish, and let it remain until cold. KoU out some good pufl: paste to the thickness of the eighth of an inch. Place small balls of the mince upon it at short distances ■ from each other. Moisten the paste round them with a little water, and cover them -with more paste. Press ■ the edges securely, trim them neatly, dredge a little flour over them, and fry them in hot fat tmtil lightly browned. Dish them on a napkin, garnish with parsley, and serve hot. Probable cost of small lobster, 9d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Lobster, Hoast. — Lobsters are occa- sionally half roasted and half boiled, instead of being boUed until done enough in the usual way. When half done, they are taken out of the water^ dried, rubbed over with butter, placed on a dish before the fire, and basted liberally until they are well frothed. The usual plan, however, is the best. Lobster Salad.—Pick the meat from the body of a lobster, take out the tail part in one piece, and cut it, with the contents of the claws, into slices a quarter of an inch thick. Chop the whites of two hard-boiled eggs smaU, and rub the yolks through a hair sieve. Do the same with the spawn or coral of the lobster, but mix the soft part and any bits with the sauce. Pour the sauce into the bowl, put in a layer of shred lettuce and small salad, and place the slices of lobster, with hard-boiled eggs, quartered, and interspersed with sliced beetroot, cucumber, &c., on the top. Repeat in the same manner until the bowl is full, sprink- ling the egg and coral over and between the layers. To ornament, reserve some of the hard-boiled eggs, yolks and whites; arrange these, with the coral, beetroot, and sliced lobster, so that the colours may contrast well. Before serving, poiir some mayonmiise sauce over the top. Crab may be prepared in the same manner. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. Lobster Salad (another way). — In making lobster salad be careful that the lobster is sweet and fresh, and that the lettuces are crisp and dry. Unless the latter are perfectly free from moisture, the sauce, instead of blending properly, will be liable to float in oily particles on the top. Take the meat of one or two large lobsters. Divide it into neat pieces, and season each piece slightly with pepper,. salt, and vinegar. Place a bed of shred lettuce- hearts at the bottom of a dish, put a layer of lobster upon it, mixed, if liked, with a few slices of cucumber; cover again with lettuce, and repeat until the materials are exhausted. Decorate the border mth any garnish that may suit the taste. It may consist of aspic jelly cut in dice, sliced beetroot, stamped with a cutter, hard-boUed eggs cut into quarters, lettuce-hearts, nasturtium flowers, sci'aped radishes, &c. &c. Pour the sauce over at the last moment, and sprinkle a little powdered and sifted lobster coral on the top. Mayonnaise sauce is the most suitable for all fish salads. It is made as follows :—Beat the yolk of one raw egg until thick. Add a salt-spoonful of salt, a salt-spoonful of pepper, a salt-spoonful of mustard, half a pint of oU, and a quai-ter of a 4)int of vinegar. After the salt, pepper, and mustard, the oil should be added, in drops at first, and afterwards in tea-spoonfuls, and the sauce should be beaten a minute between each addition. After every six tea-spoonfuls of oil put in a tea-spoonful of vinegar. When finished, the sauce should have the appearance of thick cream. Taste it before serving, to ascertain if the seasoning be agreeable. If the mayonnaise is made before it is to be used, it should be kept in a cool place. Time, an hour to prepare the salad. Probable cost, from 3s. to 5s. Sufficient for a dozen persons. Lobster Salad (a German recipe). — Arrange the lobster and the salad as in the last recipe. Boil two eggs untU quite hard. Let them get cold, then cut the white part into slices, and lay them on the top of the salad, with a table- spoonful of bruised capers. Eub the yolks smoothly with the back of a spoon; mix with them a raw egg, weU beaten, a tea-spoonful of mixed mustard, salt, pepper, and sugar, a shallot finely minced, and four table-spoonfuls of salad-oU. The oil must be added in very small quantities at first, and the mixture well beaten between each addition. When well mixed and quite smooth, add one table-spoonful of tarragon vinegar, and, if the sauce is not sufficiently acid to suit the taste, add another spoonful of white wine vinegar. Toast three slices of the crumb of bread, cut them into small triangular pieces, butter them, spread a little caviar upon them, and put them round the salad. Pour the sauce over, and serve. Time to prepare, an hour. Probable cost, Ss. to 6s. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Lobster Salad Dressing.—Sauce mayonnaise, as given in the last recipe but ona is the most suitable dressing for lobster salad.LOB ( 390 ) LOB When oil is not liked, a drossinf? miiy ho made as follows:—Take the yolks of throe eggs, which have been boiled hard and allowed to become cold. Rub thorn in a bowl with the back of a ■ilver spoon until quite smooth. Add one tea- Kpoouful of mixed mustard, half a salt-spoonful of popper, one table-spoonful of cream, and a table-spoonful of vinegar. Boat together until thoroughly mixed. A few drops of oil may bo added or not. Time, a quarter of an hour to prepare. Probable cost, 6d. iSufhcient for two or three persons. Lobster Sauce.—Take the coral from the back and neck of a freshly-boiled hen lobster. Put it in a mortar and pound it thoroughly with double the quantity of fresh butter, and a little cayenne, and press it through a hair-sieve with the back of a spoon. This is lobster butter. It ought to be of a bright red colour. As it will keep for some time, any that is left should be put into a jar and kept in a cool, dry place until it is again wanted, as lobsters with coral cannot always be obtained. Pick out the white meat, and tear it into flakes with two forks. A small quantity only will be required for the sauce, the rest may therefore be served up some other way (see Lobster Salad, Lobster Rissoles, Lobster Cutlets, &c.). Break the shell of the lobster into small pieces. Pour three-quarters of a pint of water over these, and simimer gently until the liquid is reduced to half a pint. Mix two ounces of fresh butter with an ounce of flour. Strain the half-pint of gravy upon it, and stir all over the fire until the mixture thickens, but it must not boil. If despatch is necessary water may be used instead of gravy. Stir into the sauce as much lobster butter as will colour it brightly, add about a table-spoonful of the white meat, and, if liked, the juice of half a small lemon. Let it remain on the fire until the meat is quite hot. It must be remem- bered, however, that if it be allowed to boil the colour will be spoilt. A table-spoonful of cream is sometimes added. Time, two or three minutes to heat the sauce. Probable cost, small lobster, Is. Sufficient for five or six persons. Lobster Sauce, Mock.—When lobster butter is in the house, lobster sauce may be easily made, and a little boiled turbot or sole, torn into flakes, may be used as a substitute for the lobster meat. If there is neither lobster butter nor cold fish, boil a thick fleshy sole. Take the meat from the bones while it is still warm, and when nearly cold smear it over with anchovy paste, or the essence of shrimps. Cut it into small pieces, stir it into the required quantity of melted butter, and when it is heated ' through, serve immediately. Time, three or four minutes to heat the sauce. Pro- bable cost, 6d. per half-pint. Sufficient for five or six persons. Lobster, Sauce Piquant for.—Mix a sJilt-spoonful of raw mustard and a small pinch of salt and pepper smoothly with a dessert- spoonful of cold water; add gradually a quarter of a pint of best vinegar. Stir gently oyer the fire until the vinegar is hot, then put in two ounces of fresh butter, and serve. Time, ten minutes. Probable cost, 4d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Lobster Sausages.—Pick the flesh from a modiuin-sized freshly-boiled hen lobster. Mince it finely, and pound it in a mortar with two ounces of fresh butter, a little salt, cayenne, and pounded mace, and lialf of the coral, which has been pounded separatelv, and pressed through a hair sieve with the back of a spoon. Shape the mixture into rolls like sausages, sprinkle the rest of the coral over them, and place them in a Dutch oven before a moderate tire until they are quite hot. Serve them on a folded napkin, and garnish with parsley. Time, a quarter of an hour to heat. Probable cost of lobster, about Is. 6d. Sufficient for lialf a dozen persons. Lobster. Scalloped.-Take a freshly- boiled hen lobster. Divide the shell into halves Avithout injuring it, take out all the meat, cut it into dice, and put it aside for a short time. Pound the spawn and coral in a mortar, with an ounce of fresh butter, a tea-spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of pepper, and a blades of mace, pounded; add a tea-spoonful of anchovy, two table-spoonfuls of white sauce, and a tea- spooniul of strained lemon-juice. Stir all gently over the fire for ten minutes, then put in the meat of the lobster and the yolks of two raw eggs. When quite hot turn the mixture into the two halves of the lobster shells, strew bread-crimibs over, brown them with a sala- mander, and serve on a folded napkin. Garnish with parsley. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. to 3s. 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Lobster Soup.—Pick the meat from a large freshly-boiled hen lobster, cut it into squares, and set it in a cool place until wanted. Take away the brown fin and the bag in the head, and beat the small claws, the fins, and the chin in a mortar. Put them into a stew- pan, and with them a small onion, a carrot, a bunch of sweet herbs, a stick of celery, the toasted crust of a French roll, a small strip of lemon-rind, a tea-spoonful of salt, a pinch of cayenne, and a quart of good unseasoned stock. Simmer aU gently together for three-quarters of an hour, then press the soup through a tamis, and return it again to the saucepan. Pound the coral to a smooth paste, press it through a sieve, and mix a little salt, pepper, and cayenne -with it. Stir these into the soup, add the pieces, and when quite hot, without boiling, serve. If liked, a few quenelles (see Lobster Quenelles) can be fried in butter, and put into the tureen before the soup is poured in. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Lobster Soup (another way).—Pick the meat from the claws, body, and tail of a medium-sized freshly-boiled lobster, cut it into small squares, and "put it aside until wanted. Dissolve two ounces of fresh butter in a stew- pan, put in with it a carrot, an onion, four sticks of celery, and three shallots, all sliced, together with a bunch of parsley, a small sprig of th^Tne, and a piece of lemon-rind. Turn these about in the butter for four or five minutes, then mix well with them six ounces of rice flour, add graduallv three pints of good stock, and the bruised shell of the lobster. Simmer gently for three-quarters of nn hour, '^^'^pn the soup is on the point of boiling, stir in with( 391 ) LOV LOB It the spawn, which has been well bruised in a mortar. Strain the soup through a tamis, return it again to the pan, and skim it thoroughly. Add a glass of light wine, half a tea-spoonful of the essence of anchovy, a tea- spoonful of good store sauce, a tea-spoonful of strained lemon-juice, a little cayenne, and, if required, a pinch of salt. Fry some small quenelles {see Lobster Quenelles), put them into the tureen with the pieces of lobster meat, pour on the soup, and serve immediately. Probable cost, 28. 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Lobster Soup, with Milk.—Prepare the meat of the lobster as in the last recipe. Cut it very small, and mix with it the crumb of a French roll, finely grated. Put a pint and a half of milk and half a piat of water in a stewpan, season it with a dessert-spoonful of salt and a salt-spoonful of pepper ; put into it, when boil- ing, the lobster, the French roU, and three ounces of fresh butter. Simmer gently for half an hour, and serve. If liked, preserved lobster can be used for making lobster soup. Lobster, Stewed.—Pick the meat care- fully from a medium-sized freshly-boiled lob- ster, cut it into dice, and put it in an enamelled stewpan, with half a salt-spoonful of salt, half a salt-spoonful of pepper, half a grain of cayenne, two ounces of fresh butter, a tea- spoonful of mustard, and a dessert-spoonful of vinegar. Stew gently for five or six miautes, then add a glassful of light wine, simmer two or three minutes longer, and serve. Garnish the dish with parsley and sliced lemon. Probable cost of lobster, Is. 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Lobster, Vols-au-yent of. Small.— Vols-au-vent are baked without moulds. They are rather difficult to make, and require great care. They should be made of the richest pufE paste, rolled out seven times. Leave the paste about an inch in thickness, and stamp it in rounds with a plain or fluted cutter, about two inches in diameter. Dip a smaller cutter, about an inch and a quarter in diameter, into hot water, and press it partly through the paste, leaving a border all round. Bake in a brisk oven; the vols-au-vent ought to rise consider- ably, and be lightly browned. When they are baked, scoop cut the inside of the piece marked out, being careful to preserve the top for a cover, and turn them on a piece of clean writing- paper to drain and diy. When ready, till them with a little minced lobster, prepared as for lobster patties, and serve neatly arranged on a napkin. If, after baking, the crust seems too light to hold the mixture, the inside may be strengthened by being brushed over with beaten egg. Time, about twenty minutes to bake the vols-au-vent. Probable cost, 3d. each. Locofoco Drink.—This is one of the hot drinks peculiar to America. Whisk the yolks of two fresh eggs for three or four minutes, add a little grated nutmeg, an ounce of honey, and a small glass of curaf;oa, and beat all together until thoroughly mixed. Add a pint of heated burgundy, and serve in glasses. London Candy.—Butter the inside of a preserving-pan rather thickly with fresh butter, and have ready prepared two or three buttered plates, a pastry-board dredged with flour and a few strips of whity-brown paper. Put _a quart of good treacle into the pan, and with it the grated rind and strained juice of a large, fresh lemon, a tea-spoonful of powdered ginger, and half a tea-spoonful of powdered cinnamon. Place the pan over a moderate fire, and let the treacle boil gently for some minutes. Keep dropping a little upon a buttered plate, and aa soon as the drop hardens, pour out at once. Kub the hands with butter, and as soon as the candy is sufficiently cool, pull the candy out, and fold it over again and again until it is quite hard. Put it then on the floured board, and cut it with a buttered knife into narrow strips. Twine a piece of paper roimd each one of these, and store in a cool, dry place. Probable cost of treacle, 6d. London Syllabub.—Put two ounces of loaf sugar with three-quarters of a pint of sherry or madeira into a bowl, and grate half a small nutmeg into it. If practicable, milk into it from the cow a quart of milk; if not, pro- cure the milk as new as possible, make it luke- warm, and pour it from a good height through a strainer upon the wine. Serve the syllabub frothed. Time, two or three minutes to warm the milk. Probable cost, exclusive of the wine, ^d. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Lord Mayor's Trifle.—Slice four penny spongecakes and lay them at the bottom of a deep trifle-dish. Put with them a dozen rata- fias, eight macaroons, and two wine-glassfuls of brandy. When the liquor is soaked up, spread a layer of strawberry or raspberry jam over the spongecakes, and cover them with a pint of rich cold custard. Pile whipped cream high over the top, and ornament with pink comfits. The cream should be whipped some hours before it is needed, and laid upon a reversed sieve to drain. Time, about an hour to whip the cream. Probable cost, exclusive of the brandy, 3s. 6d. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Lome Soup.—Put three pints of good stock into a stewpan with a carrot, a turnip, a small sprig of lemon-thjone, a bunch of parsley, and a little pepper and salt. Simmer gently for half an hour. Pick all the white meat fronx the remains of a cold roast chicken, mince it finely, and pound it in a mortar with the yolksr of two hard-boiled eggs, the crumb of half a French roll which has been soaked in milk and then pressed dry, and two ounces of blanched and pounded almonds. Strain the soup, and return it again to the saucepan. Stir the pounded ingredients thoroughly into it, simmer gently for a few minutes, and serve. Probable cost, Is. per quart, exclusive of the roast chicken. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Love Apple {see Tomato). Love Cakes.—Beat up four eggs with a small toa-cupf ul of good yeast and half a pint of warm milk. Make a hollow in the centre of a pound and a half of flour, throw in the inixturo!, and stir all together into a dough; work this dough, and put to it by degrees a( 392 ) MAC LOZ pound of buttor, and Vhon thoroughly knoadcd lot It stand an hour to rm^, thun mix with it lialf a pound of sifted sugar, and hako in small eako- pans, previously huttcred. Cut ('andiod orango or lemon-p(H!l, and ornauK'nt tho toi). 'J'imi' according to size. Prohahlo cost, 2a. Gd. Lozengos, Black Currant Black Lunant Lozenges). Lozenges, Lemon <.sw Lemon Lozonges). Lozenges, Plum, for Dessert (m- -rlum Lozenges). Luncheon. — This is a kind of intormc- diato meal, and thoroforo not infrequently an unnecessary one. "The English labourer," BJiys a medical authority, "has his 'lunch' between breakfast and dinner, and again between tho latter meal and supper; the English of the higher classes, particularly if th(-ir time is not well occupied, arc apt to make luncheons a kind of dinner—a meal of animal food and stimulants, which, if superadded to dinner, is certainly unnecessary, and therefore productive of disease. Either the luncheon should be made a bond Jide dinner, at an early hour, or it should be a meal without animal food, provided, of course, that an additional amount of animal nutriment is not considered necessary by a medical man, as a remedial measure. Fruit is generally more wholesome at luncheon than in any other part of the day." Luncheon Cake.—Any good plain cake may be used as a luncheon cake, nevertheless recipes are here given for two or three. Rub half a pound of fresh butter into three-quarters of a pound of fine flour; add a quarter of a pound of ground rice, a pinch of salt, half a pound of moist sugar, four ounces of currants, picked and washed, half an ounce of caraway seeds, if liked, half a nutmeg, grated, and an ounce of candied lemon cut into thin slices. Mix the dry ingre- dients thoroughly. Dissolve a tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda in half a pint of boiling milk. Let it cool, then stir into it three eggs well beaten. Moisten the cake with the liquid, and be careful to mix all very thoroughly. Butter a tin, and line the sides with buttered paper. Put in the cake, and bake in a moderate oven. Li order to ascertain when the cake is done, push a skewer to the bottom of it, and when it comes out clear and dry the cake is done enough. Let it stand entire for two days before cutting. Time to bake, an hour and a quarter. Pro- bable cost. Is. 6d. Luncheon Cake, Irish {see Irish Lun- cheon Cake). Luncheon Cake made from Dough. —Take two pounds of dough just ready for tho oven, rub into it tAvo ounces of fresh butter, a quai-ter of a pound of currants, washed, picked, and dried thoroughly, half a pound of moist sugar, and half a large nutmeg, grated, with a little sliced candied lemon, if liked. These in- gredients should be rubbed into the dough very lightly. Put the mixture into a basin, cover it with a cloth, and lot it stand in a warm place to rise. Then knead the dough, butter some tins, three-parts fill them with the cake, let it agJiin i-ise for a few minutes, and bake in a moderate oven It bread is not made at home, a httlo dough may be procured from the T i>^"",^ ^ ^''^''^ '^^""^ li'^ur and a halt. Probable cost, is. Luncheon Cake, Plain.—Sfix two tea- Hj)oonlul8 of ljaking-i,owd<-r and a pinch of s^ilt with one pound of flour; rul) in four ounces of good beef drii)j)ing, add a quarter of a pound of moist sugar, six ounces of currants, picked and stoned, half a nutmeg, grated, and a quarter of an ounce of caraway seedij, if liked. JIake the mixture up into a paste with two eggs and half a pint of milk, bake in a buttered tin in a moderate oven. This cake is better if left for a day before it is cut into. Time to bake, about an hour and a quarter. Probable cost, 9d. Lyonnaise Sauce for Cutlets, &c.— Cut . the stalks from half a dozen larg(; rij,,; tomatoes. Divide them into halves, and put them into a stewpan with four table-spoonfuls of good gravy and a Httle salt and cayenne, and let them simmer very gently. When quite tender, press them through a hair sieve. Slice two Spanish onions very finely, fry them in a little fresh butter until they are soft and very lightly browned, then put them into a stewpan with the tomato-pulp, two table-spoonfuls of good brown gravy, and a table-spooivful of strained lemon-juice. Stir gently over the fire for three or four minutes, and serve hot. Time, three-quarters of an hour to stew the tomatoes. Probable cost, Is. 4d. SuflB^cient for six or eight persons. M Mab'S Pudding {see Queen Mab's Pud- ding). Macaroni.—This is a peculiar paste or dough, prepared from wheat flour, and manu- factured into tubes or ribbons. It is an Italian invention, and though made by a simple process, has never been produced with such success in any other country. The grain grown in the southern districts of Europe is said to be the best suited to its manufacture, through its possessing a greater amount of gluten than anj- other sort of grain. The wheat, after being thoroughly washed, is freed from the husks, and ground in water-mills ; when hot, water is added, till it is of the consistency of stiff dough. Five different qualities of flour are obtained by five separate sittings, the last giving the finest and most delicate that can be made. The dough is kneaded by means of a wooden pole, attached to a post fixed in the ground, and worked up and down as a lever, under one end of which the paste is placed. Or the kneading may be accomplished by the less agreeable process of piling up the dough and treading it out with tho feet, after which it is rolled with a "rolling- pin. In making the dough into tubes and ribbons, a hollow cylindrical cast-iron vessel is used, having the bottom perforated with holes or slits. This is filled with the paste. Then a piece of wood or a heavy iron plate is brought down upon it by means of a screw, and in this manner the paste is forced through theMAC holes, and receives the shape of the perfora- tions. The macaroni is partially baked as it issues from these holes, by a lire placed below the cylinder, and as it descends is di-awn away and hung on rods, placed across the room, whore in a few days it diies so as to •be fit for use. The manufacture of macaroni is an important Italian industry, the article being not only largely consumed at home, but exported in considerable quantities to all parts of the world. In Geneva alone about 170,000 quintals of wheat are employed every year in its manu- facture. The finest sorts of macaroni are the whitest in colour, and those which do not burst or break up in boUing. In the boiling process, macaroni should swell considerably, and become quite soft, but it should retain its form, other- wise one may conclude that it has not been made of the best wheat. Occasionally macaroni is flavoured and coloured with saffron and tm-meiic, to suit certain palates. Macaroni la PontLfiEe).—^Boil eight ounces of long straight ribbon macaroni in the ■usual way, but fifteen minutes will bo enough to swell it, which is all that is needed. Drain on a sieve, and when drained put a neat layer of it as a lining over a well-buttered mould; cover next with a quenelle forcemeat of fowl or rabbit, and fill the mould with game or poultry, boned and filleted, some larks, also boned, and rolled with thin bits of bacon inside each, and some delicate strips or pieces ait into rounds about the size of a shilling, distributed with egg-baUs and button mushrooms, pre- viously simmered in gravy, in the mould. Thicken the gravy, a little of which use to moisten the whole, cover with macaroni, and simmer, but do not boil, for an hour. Probable cost, 6d. to 6d. per pound. Macaroni {a la Keine).—Boilhalf a pound of pipe macaroni {see Macaroni, Boiled, k I'lta- lienne). Meanwhile warm slowly in a stewpan three-quarters of a pint of cream, and slice into it half a pound of StQton or other white cheese, add two ounces of good fresh butter, two blades of mace, pounded, a good pinch of cayenne, and a little salt. Stir until the cheese is melted, and the whole is free from lumps, when put in the macaroni, and move it gently round the pan until mixed and hot, or put the maca- roni on a hot dish, and pour the sauce over. It may be covered with fried bread-crumbs of a pale colour, and dried in a Dutch oven. Time, about three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, 5d. to 6d. per pound. Sufficient for seven or eight persons. Macaroni and Game Pie {see Game and Macaroni Pic). Macaroni (au Gratin).—Break up a pound of macaroni in three-inch lengths, boil as usual, and drain. Put into a stewpan a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, the macaroni, twelve ounces of Parmesan and Gruyere cheese mixed, and about a quarter of a pint of some good sauce—bechamel or white sauce. Move the stewpan and its contents over the fire until the ma«ironi has absorbed the butter, &c., then turn it out on a dish, which should be garnished '.vith croutons. Pil(^ it in the shape of a dome, cover with bread-raspings, a little clarified butter run thi-ough a colander, and brown very lightly with a salamander. Time, three- quarters of an hour to prepai-e. Probable cost, 5d. to 6d. per pound. Sufficient for ten or twelve persons. Macaroni (au vin).—Boil two ounces of macaroni from twenty to thirty minutes. Drain on a sieve before the fire. Put into a stewpan two table-spoonfuls of thick cream, a lump of butter, and as much Parmesan, grated, as will make it, when melted, of the consistency of custard. Add the macaroni, and toss well in the pan together. Have ready a French roll that has been steeped in about a pint of wine—it should have been rasped so that no brown crust remains on it. Pour the macaroni hot over the roll, and brown with a salamander. Probable cost, 6d. to 6d. per pound. Macaroni, Boiled (a I'ltalienne). — Macaroni being a national article of food, the mode of cooking it is best imderstood in Italy. A better acquaintance with the Italian mode will, we hope, enable English cooks to convert a dish of macaroni into a wholesome and delicious preparation, such as is met with on the Continent. Dishes of macaroni, with tomatoes, truffles, game, or fish, are all good, and there is a great variety to be found in the preceding recipes, such as Macaroni a la Pon- tifie, a la Reine, au Gratin, au vin, &c., but one rule should be observed in the boiling of the macaroni. The following recipe, if properly attended to, Avill insure success:—Put five or six ounces of the best Italian macaroni into plenty of boiling water, not less than three pints, a salt-spoonful of salt, and one of fine pepper; simmer for twenty minutes, and di'ain. After this first boiling, which should be observed in the preparation of all dishes, return the macaroni to the stewpan, with half a pint of gravy or broth, aocordjng to the richness required, and simmer until the maca- roni has imbibed all the Liquid. Have ready grated of Parmesan and Gruyere cheese, mixed, a quarter of a pound. Put half the quantity Avith the macaroni until nearly melted, then add the rest, and an ounce of butter. Move the contents of the pan round in one direction until the cheese has been well incoi-porated and dissolved in the macaroni. Turn it out on a hot dish, and serve. In this way macaroni is eaten at most of the best tables in Leghorn and Florence. Time, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, 5d. or 6d. per pound. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Macaroni, Cheese with {see Cheese with Macaroni). Macaroni Cordial. — This favourite French liqueur is thus prepared :—Put half an ounce of the oil of bitter almonds into half a pint of spirits of wine; shako up the mixture every day for two or three days ; then infuse it for ten days, with one ounce of Spanish angelica root in three gallons of brandy, one drachm of the essence of lemon, three quarts of clarified sugar, two quarts of milk-flour water, and five quarts of soft water; last of all, filter the whole thi'ough a bag.MAO cm) MAO Macaroni, Croquettes of.—To a toa- cupt'ul of huilod pipit macaroni add about two ounces of miiat from a roast phuasaiit, partridge, hiiro, or any game, a slice of lean ham, a few mushrooms, or a truffle. Mince separately, and mix these ingredients together. Boil a breakfast- cupful of good white sauce until reduced to a quarter of a pint, then simmer in it for a few minutes a sjilt-spoonful of shallot, chopped line, a salt-spuonful of sugar, and one of pepper and nutmeg, mixed; lastly, stir in two or three yolks of eggs, and, when these have set, the juice of half a lemon. This sauce may now be thrown over the mince, mixed with it, and left to get cold, when egg-shaped balls may be made in a table-spoon, and completed by the hand. Fry with egg and bread-crumbs in boiling lard from eight to ten minutes. Serve with fried parsley as a garnish. Sufficient for a dish. Macaroni Dressed in the English. Fashion.—Ribbon or pipe macaroni may be used, and either boiled in nulk, broth, or water. To four ounces of macaroni so boiled, add thi-ee ounces of grated cheese and a little salt; half the quantity of cheese is often mixed ^vith the macaroni, and the remainder is put over the top, with grated bread-crumbs and a little clarified hutter. Brown in an oven, or Avith a salamander. Kitchener remarks on this mode of dressing, "that the butter and cheese generally get burned, and in this state maca- roni is iinwholesome." Macaroni (en Timbale).—Boil eight ounces of macaroni in the usual way, and drain them well. Have ready minced the white meat of a cold roast fowl, and a slice or two of lean ham; mix with two table-spoonfuls of grated Parmesan, and moisten with nearly half a pint of thick cream, and the beaten yolks and whites of three eggs. Cover a well-buttered mould with some of the macaroni, and mix the remainder, cut into neat lengths, with the meat, with which mixture fill the mould, and steam for three-quai-ters of an hour. A pudding paste is sometimes substituted for the lining of mac^ironi, but in cither case steaming is better than boiling. Serve, turned out of the mould, and with a good gra^'y. Probable cost, 5d. to 6d. per pound. Sufficient for four or five persons. Macaroni Fish.—Cold cod is most often used for this dish. Separate three ounces of the fish into small flakes, or chop it very finely, if preferred. Mix it with six ounces of macaroni, boiled and drained as before indicated, and three ounces of grated cheese. Toss it together for a few minutes in a stewpan, with a good lump of butter, or turn it out at once on a hot dish with more grated cheese over the top, to be browned with a salamander. Scollops of salmon or sturgeon, cooked en timbale, are highly appreciated. Time, one hour to prep;ire ; twenty to twenty-five minutes to boil macaroni. Probable cost, 6d. to 6d. per pound. Macaroni in Scollop Shells. —Boil eight ounces of macaroni from twriity-fivo to thirty minutes in the usual way, but throw it into cold water, then drain, and cut into half- inch lengths. Put a quarter of a pound of butter into a stewpan, stir in a little tiour, and add a small cup of rich gravy, with a littbj grated nutmeg, a salt-spoonful of salt, and one of pepper. Toss the; uutcaroni with two or three ounces of grated Parmesan into the sauce, shake and mix it well over the tire, llien till scollop shells, or any fancy sliapes, with the mixture, which cover with more grated cheese, run clarified butter or spread sardine butter over the top, and bake quickly, or brown before the fire. Macaroni Nudels.—Nudel paste, like Italian macaroni, to which it is nearly allied, is a "homo-made" preparation'of eggs and flour, useful in a variety of ways, and equally applicable to sweet and savoury dishes. It is made thus:—Take as many eggs as will be re- quired for the quantity of paste to be made, but use only the whites of eggs if preferred quits white. Work in as much flour to two well- beaten eggs as will make a stiff dough, knead until smooth, and roll out, first dividing the mass into six parts, and each part into a round ball, on a pasteboard kept well dredged with flour. A perfectly straight rolling-pin is one of the requisites to perfect nudel making. The de- sired thinness to which the paste is to be rolled may be best Ulustrated by the sajong, '' That to arrive at the perfection of nudel rolling is to bo able to read through the paste." Ha%-ing ac- complished this, dry each cake on a napkin—a few minutes will do this—commence with the first rolled cake by cutting it into equal halves and quarters. Lay one quarter on the other, make the cut edges meet equally, and with a sharp knife cut through in as thread-like a manner as possible, then dry—by scattering them they will separate; or the paste rolled, as before indicated, is cut with a tin-cutter into stars, rings, &c., which may be stamped out, and piled one cake on the other; they will separate on being thrown into boiling soup. Macaroni Nudels, To Boil.—To boil nudels, throw them into boiling water, slightly salted; from ten to fifteen minutes will be long enough. Strain, and lay them on a shallow, well-l)uttered dish, with bits of butter and grated Parmesan cheese in alternate layer?, finishing with the cheese. Brown lightly in the oven, or put the nudels before the fire, and brown with a salamander. Tape or broad nudels are best for this dish. Sufficient, half a ))ound of nudels to a quarter of a pound of cheese. Macaroni, Pate of.—Boil six or eiglit ounces of macaroni in good veal bi-oth. drain, and cut it into equal lengths of two inches. Cover the bottom of a pie-dish with mac'ironi, and on this lay a quenelle of forcemeat or ham- balls, if preferred, placed equally with any kind of poultry or game, boned ami in fillets, sweetbreads, cockscombs, or ox-palates, pre- viously stewed with truffles or mushrooms, and mincoii. Put these with alternate layers of the macaroni and meat, and an equal quantity of cream and rich gravy to fill the dish. Bake with a crust over the "torn or without a crust; make hot and brown before the fire. Par- mcsiin cheese should accomimny this dish, or it^ 395 ) MAC may be mixed with the macaroni. Time, fif- teen minutes to swell the macaroni; to bake, half an hour. Snllicieut for seven or eight persons. Macaroni, Pate of (another way).—-See I'iite of JMacaroni. Macaroni Pie. — Boil fom- ounces of macaroni in veal broth or beef bouillon, put part of it over the bottom of a pie-dish, and cover spiiringly with grated cheese and an ounce of butter in small bits. Mince a shallot finely, and a few mushrooms; mix some salt, a blade of mace, pounded, a Kttle pepper, and a small pinch of cayenne. Season a pound and a half of steak with these ingi-edients. Cut it from the fillet small and thin; lay the steaks alternately with the macaroni into the dish, covering with macaroni and grated cheese. Run clarified butter over the top, and bake in a sIoav oven for an hour. Probable cost of beef. Is. 4d. per pound. Sufficient for three or four persons. Macaroni, Portuguese, Sweet.— Soak three ounces of mac<iroui for an hour be- fore it is required to be prepared. Put it into a bowl, and thi'ow a quart of cold water over it.' "When! wanted, drain on a sieve, and when dry, put it into an enamelled saucepan, to simmer over a slow fire, with a quart of milk and an inch of vanilla to flavour. Stir it occasionally to prevent its sticking to the bottom of the pan, and remove the vanilla as soon as the flavour has been imparted.. The macaroni will require nearly two hours to simmer. Sweeten with four ounces of loaf sugar, and stir until dis- solved, then draw it from the fire, and add, separately and slowly, five eggs, well beaten, and, lastly, when again heated to the boiling point, a glass of brandy or rum, and a small cup of thick cream. The macaroni must not boU. Stir it until the heat has gone ofl:, and when cool put it into a glass dish, and in a cold place. Serve when quite cold with nwcaroons, whole or pounded, over the top. I'robable cost. Is. 6d., exclusive of brandy. Sufficient for five persons. Macaroni Pudding.—Break four ounces of macaroni into inch lengths, and boil in a quart of wati-r in an uncovered saucepan for fifteen minutes. Drain, and boil again with a pint of milk and two ounces of sugar till tender but unbroken. When cool add two beaten eggs, and flavour pleasantly. Put the mixture into a buttered dish, and bake till brown. For a superior pudding, take additional eggs and stir in a glass of noyau or a little brandy. A little orange marmalade or apricot jam may, if liked, be put in the dish under the macaroni. Macaroni Puddingy Parisian.—Sim- mer six ounces of macaroni for fifteen minutes in water salted slightly. Drain, and cut it into pieces of equal length. Grate two ounces of Parmesan cheese, and mince the white meat of a chicken, or the breast and merrythought of a fine fowl, a slice or two of boiled ham, quite free from fat, a pinch of salt, if necessary, and a very little pepper. Moisten the mince with a cup of thick cream, and two table-spoonfuls of rich gravy. Stir the macaroni with the mince, twld the volks of four offgs^ and the. whites of two, {ind steam for thi-ee-quai-ters of an hour in a buttered mould. Servo with a rich veal giavy, tiavom-ed with onion and tarragon, and more gi'ated cheese in a dish. Sufficient for three or four persons. Macaroni Pudding, Plain.—Butter a pic-dish, and cover the bottom with about two and a half ounces of uncooked macaroni. Pour over it one quart of cold milk made sweet. Stir in a couple of well-beaten eggs, and flavour with any essence liked, ratafia or vanilla. Put bits of butter over the top, and a little grated nutmeg. Bake in a slow oven for three houi's. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for fom" or five persons. Macaroni Pudding, with Almonds. —Blanch an ounce of sweet and four or five bitter almonds; cut them small, and soak them with four ounces of macaroni broken into inch, lengths in a pint of milk. In an hour or two, when the macaroni has well soaked, simmer it over a slow fire, adding a pint of cream or milk, and as much sugar—pounded loaf—as will sweeten (say about four ounces). When the pudding has simmered and cooled, stii- in two ounces of butter in bits, and six well-beaten eggs. Pour the mixture, which should be beaten for some minutes, into a buttered pie- dish, and bake in a moderate oven, A\dth cinna- mon or grated nutmeg over the top. Time to simmer mararoni, three-quarters of an hour; to bake, about one houi". Macaroni, Savoury.—Break two ounces of pipe macaroni into pieces an inch in length, and boil these in a quart of water in an uncovered stiucepan for a quaiter of an hour. Drain and return to the steAvpan with a pint of well-flavoured stock, an onion chopped small, and a little pepper and salt. Simmer very gently by the side of the fire till the macaroni is quite tender but unbroken. Make a little custard with three-quarters of a pint of milk and two eggs. Put the macaroni in a greased dish, pour the custard over, and bake in a gentle oven till the oustiird is set .and . lightly browned. If liked, the macaroni may be plainly boiled till tender, then seasoned with salt and pepper, and served with a little maitre d'hutel sauce poured over it. Macaroni, Savoury (a Genoese recipe). —To eight ounces of macaroni, boiled slowly for twenty minutes in salted water, put a quai-t of stock, and simmer again, but not until it has been well drained from the first boiling. A\nien the stock is well absorbed by the macaroni, and the latter is quite tender, mix a dessert-spoonful of unmade mustard with an ounce of butter, add it with quarter of a pound of gi-atecl Parmesan, a seasoning of cayenne (about a couple of grains), and as much white pepper as can be put on a sixpence. Turn the macaroni out on a hot dish, cover thickly with Parmesan, and again with verj' thin slices of butter, and bake to a pale colour. Time, in stock, one hqur or more; to bake, ten to fifteen minutes. Macaroni Soup.—This soup is easily prepared, and at short notice. Boil some n»ftcHroni for fifteen or twent,y miuwtc'ii iiiMAC ( 396 ) MAC Loiling water Halted a littl(3. Drain in n. culandor, and havo read)' builing two (piarts of flwir stock. Cut tlu) macaroni into two-inch lcnjj;th8, or into ringH, and boil in tho Htock tor a low nunntos. Sond gratod I'arniofiau to taldo on a dish. Probahlo cost, Is. Gd. in'V ([uart. Sutticicnt for ciglit porsons. Macaroni Soup, Italian {wc Italian ^lacanjui Soup). Macaroni, with Chestnuts—Roast a dozen tine diestuuts in their slu'lls, peel and pound thoni to a paste. Season with a small tea- spoont'ul of salt, and put them with ciglit ounces of macaroni, previously boiled and drained, acoording to the recipe given for boil- ing macaroni, into a stowpan : add three ounces of butter and a large onion, uncut. Shake the Avliole well together, and stir round in the pan for ten or twelve minutes. If dry, pour in a table-spoonful of milk, and mix again until hot, when remove the onion, and dish the macaroni. Brown lightly in the oven, or before the tire, well covered with equal quantities of grated I'armesan and fine bread-crumbs. Butter should be run over the top. Macaroni with Tomatoes.—Boil four ounces of macaroni {see Macaroni, Boiled), but in veal broth instead of water. Skin four fine fresh mutton kidneys, fry them lightly in butter, lift them from the stewpan, and mince them finely. Make a gi'avy in the same pan, adding a dessert-spoonful of brown flour, half a pint of rich gravy, a couple of shallots, minced, and a pinch of cayenne. Stew the minced kidneys in this gravy for ten minutes, when part of the macaroni, which should have been kept wann, miiy be mi.xed and tossed in the pan for a few minutes to absorb the gravy. Serve turned out on a hot dish, an'ange the remainder of the macaroni on the top, and pour hot tomato sauce over. Time, one hour to prepare. Probable cost, Is. lOd. Sufficient for two persons. Macaroon Biscuits. — This delicate almond biscuit is easily made by experienced hands, but home-made delicate pastry is seldom so successful as when purchased of a respectable baker. After blanching and drying the almonds, a few bitter, say eight or nine, with half a pound of sweet ones, pound them in a mortar, with the whites of eggs added sparingly from time to time, and beaten previously to a firm fnjth. When well pounded and mixed, beat in also by de.grecs, six ounces of the finest sifted sugar," with tho white of another egg or two, until the mixture is of the consistency required, then drop it through a biscuit-funnel upon sheets of wafer-paper, and bake in a moderate oven for about eighteen minutes. A strip of almond may bo put on the top of each cake. Probable cost, '2s. Macaroon Biscuits, Bitter (a German recipe).—Pound four ounces of blanched and dried sweet ahnonds, and the same weight of bitter ones, with the white of an egg frothed and mixed in at two separate times while pound- ing, then add twelve ounces of fine sugar, and Another white of egg, and, when well mixed, another frothed white, and Htir all lightly together. Drop the mixture from a bihcuit- funnel or a tea-spo(jn upon some wai'er-pap(;r, and bake the uuicaroons a jwile cinniimon colour in a slow oven for about eighteen minutoH. Proliablo cost, 2h. Macaroon Cakes. — Blanch, diy, and pound an ounce of sweet and a quarter of an ounce of bitter almonds, and cut two ounws into small bits. Wh(;n pounding the almonds, moisten with a tea-spoonful of brandy. Beat two eggs to a froth, and rub the ahnonds to a paste with them. Add to the cut almonds three- quarters of a pound of powdered sugar, and the grated rind of a lemon. ISIix all together with the frothed whites of three eggs, and beat until the mass has become firm, when di'op from a dessert-spoon upon writing-paper, and mould into cakes about the size of a crown-piece. Bake these of a pale colour in a gentle oven for about eighteen niinutes. Probable cost, Is. 4d. Macaroon Jubes. — Blanch, drj', and pound six ounces of sweet almondij, and mix together eight oimces of powder(;d sugar, and a tea-spoonful of powdered cinnamon. Stir these with the frothed whites of four eggs to a paste. Butter some baking-tins, spread the paste thinly over, and bake in a slow oven. Wlien done to a pale colour, and while still hot, mould them round a stick about an inch and a half in diameter. Remove them when cool to a canister to keep crisp. Macaroon Pudding. — Soften eight ounces of macaroons by pouiing a pint of boilmg cream over them, and then covering them until cold. Break four eggs, yolks and whites sepa- rately, add to the yolks two table-spoonfuls of pow'dered sugar, and a glass of ram or brandy, and beat the whites to a froth. Beat the maca- roon.* smooth with a wooden spoon, mix in the egg-yolks, sugar, and brandy, and, lastly, just before baking, stir in lightly the whites of the eggs. Fill to about half some small cups, and bake in a moderate oven for fifteen minutes. Probable cost, 3s., exclusive of brandy. Macaroon Pyramids.—ISIake a strong cement by dissolving about two ounces of gum arable and half a pound of loaf sugar, pounded, in a wine-glassful of water. Stir this over the tire until quite dissolved, when use it hot. Have ready some macaroons, and fix a tin moidd where it ^\^ll stand finnly, smear it well with butter, and use the cement to cover the outside of the mould, which has 1)een buttered, with tin; macaroons. Commence from the bottom upwards, always remembering to see each row of macaroons firm and cold before putting on another. Remove from the mould when firmly set, and fill with whipjied cream or with crystjillised fruits. Probable cost of macaroons. Is. 8d. per pound. Macaroon Souffl6.—Dissolve four ounces of finely-powdered sugar in a small tea-cupful of cream, add two table-spoonfuls of brandy, and pour it, when on the point of boiling, over a quarter of a pound of macaroons. Have ready six eggs, well beaten, yolks and whites separately, stir the volks vi-ith an ounce of good fresh butter in hits into tho mixture when cool, and when ready to bakt-, mix the fi-olhcdMAC MAC ( 3117 ) whites of the eggs. Sorve hot from the oven before the egg can fall. Time, twenty minutes to bake. Probable cost, Is. 7d. Sufficient for a small dish. Macaroons {see Almond Cakes or Maca- roons) . Macaroons, Cocoa-nut {see Cocoa-nut Macaroons). Macaroons, Italian {see Italian Maca- roons) . Macaroons, Pistachio {see Pistachio Macaroons). jdace^—This is one of the pleasantest and most used of spices. It is the outer covering of the nutmeg. JMace is dried pre\'iou8 to its being packed tight in bags. Its general qualities are the same as those of nutmeg ; it has an agree- able aromatic odour, and a hot biting taste. When fresh, mace is blood-red, and somewhat fleshy. It is prepared for the market by drjong it in the sun for some days, and flattening it. The outer covering of a species of niyristica, different from the true nutmeg, but coarse and very inferior, is sometimes sold as mace. When pai-taken of to excess, mace produces determina- of blood to the head, and occasions intellectual distm-bance. Mackerel.—The mackerel is one of the most beautiful of fish. It sometimes attains to the length of twenty inches, but usually is about fourteen or sixteen inches long, and about two pounds in weight. Mackerel is in great demand as an article of food, but to be partaken of in perfection it should be perfectly fresh. No fish spoils more rapidly. The common idea respect- ing mackerel is, that they are in best condition when fullest of roe; at that time, however, though not impoverished, they have little flavour. It is in the early part of the "season, when the roe is not yet fuU grown, that mackerel have mofi flavour. In France, and some other parts of Europe, mackerel are often salted. Mackerel (a la Poulette). — Cut large mackerel into three pieces, after being emptied, cleansed, and drained. If there be roes, dry and dredge them, as well as the fish, with flour. Make a seasoning of finely-chopped MACKEREL. onion, par.sley, pepper, and salt, scalding the parsley and onions first. Lay the pieces of fish, but not the heads or tails, into a stewpan ; sprinkle the seasoning equally over each layer, add an ounce of butter in bits, and a small cup of veal broth, but only enough to prevent the fish eticking to the bottom of the stewpan. Close the lid of the stewpan tightly until the mackerel is done, which will be in about half an horn-. Some of the seasoning should be kept for the top, and some bits of butter. Phice the fish on a dish, keep it wai-m before the fire, until the sauce is thickened. Make it boil up again, and add more pepiier or salt, if required. Have ready- beaten two yolks of eggs, remove the sauce from the fire, and stii- them with half a table- spoonful of vinegar into it. When smooth and thick, pour it over the fish. Mackerel, Baked. —Get quite fresh mackerel; they may be known by their almost silvery brightness. If stale, they are limp in body, and red and dull-looking about the eyea and head. No fish can be more unwholesome when stale, and mackerel keep worse than any other fish. Dying almost immediately after being taken fiom theii- native element, they should be used as soon as possible. They are good cooked in many ways. When baked, they should be cleaned, and the roes taken out, to be filled with a forcemeat delicately prepared, as fol- lows :—Put into a basin four ounces of bread- criimbs, two ounces of butter broken into bits, half a tea-spoonful of savoury herbs, a little chopped parsley, an anchovy boned and pounded, pepper, salt, and cayenne, and an egg to cement. Onion, in very small quantity, and «hi'ed very fine, may be added if the flavour be liked. Fill the fish with the forcemeat, lay them neatly into a dish, with small bits of butter, pepper, and Siilt. Bake half an hoiu" in a moderate oven, serve with maitre d'hotel sauce or plain melted butter. The roes should be placed in . the baking-dish with the fish. Probable cost, 28. Four fish sufficient for six persons. Mackerel, Baked (another way).—A quick and simple way of baking mackerel:—Put four or six middle-sized fish, after being washed and well diied, into a baking-dish, back down- wards, and rounded so as to make the heads and tails meet; put the roes with them, and some flour and butter blended together in the pro- portion of half an ounce of butter and half a tea- spoonful of flour to each fish. Add a little salt and cayenne, a small glassful of pci-t or sherry, and enough chilli vinegar to flavour. Bake with some bits of butter over the top, and a buttered paper pressed tightly down without crushing the fish. It is economical to remove the heads and a little of the tails of the fish before baking. Mackerel, Boiled. — Wash and clean carefuUy, after remoA'ing the roes. The mac- kerel is in its greatest perfection when there is little roe. Lay the fish and roes separately into cold water, and to a gallon of water add from three to four ounces of siilt and two table- spoonfuls of white vinegar; when at boiling oint, skim, and simmer only until done. Inch depends on the size of the fish, liemove at once when done, or from their gi-eat delicacy of skin they will crack if kej^t in the water. The usual tost, when the eyes start and the tail splits, should be attended to. Serve on a napkin with the roe, and fennel or anchovy sauce in a tureen. Time, about ten minutes after the water boila. Probable cost, 3d. to 4d. I each.MAC MAC ( -.m ) Mackerel, Broiled.—LarRo frosh ii»h «hoiilil b(( prociirt'd fur l)nnlinf,'. ('Itianm* tlu^ fisli tlioiou},'hly, and dry in a cloth, or Imiif,' it nil ill tho air. Open it down tho back, rub the insido with a little Halt and eayouno niixiid, and smoar with olaritiod bnttor or f^ood oil. I'ut it into a thickly-buttori'd paper, loosoly I'aHtonod at each end, and broil over a clear iire, or it may bo broiled without tho paper, though the fornier mode renders tho iish bo cooked more delicate, and not so apt to disaf,Teo witli tho stomach as when exposed to the lire un- covered. Time, twenty to twonty-fivo minutes in paper; twenty to "lifteen minutes to broil without paper. Probable cost, -id. to 6d. each. Mackerel Broiled, and Tarragon Butter, — Kemovo the inside of the Unh through the gills and vent without opening it. Wash, clean, di-y, and make a deep incision down tho back; lay the iish in a little salad-oil; keep it well basted for about thi-ee-quarters of an hour, but cut off the nose or part of the head and tail before it is steeped in the oil. Broil over a clear fire, and when done, have ready the following mixtm-e, with which fill up the incision:—Work a little butter, pepper, salt, and tarragon-leaves chopped and steeped in vinegar together. When ready, serve the mackerel with some of the butter spread over it on a hot dish. Time, from ten to fifteen minutes to hroil. Probable cost, 4d. to 6d. each. Mackerel, Caveacll.—Divide large fresh fish, after being well cleansed and dried in a cloth, into five pieces, and rub each piece with^ spice as follows:—Pound an oimce of black pepper and six blades of mace, mix them when pounded with two ounces of salt, and half an ounce of grated nutmeg. Use all the above spices for six fish, rubbing well in, that everj-- piece may be thoroughly seasoned with spice, then fiy in oil. Drain, and put the fish neatly into a jar, which fiU with good vinegar, adding clarified butter or oil to exclude the air. Tie down closely. Mackerel so prepared will keep for six months. Time, ten minutes to fry. Probable cost, 4d. to 6d. each. Mackerel, Fillets of.—Put a tea-cupful of stock and bechamel sauce mixed into a stew- pan. Add a lump of butter, about an ounce, some chopped' parsley previously scalded, salt, and cayenne. Cut two fine fresh mackerel into fillets, having first well cleansed them. Put the fillets into the sauce, and simmer over a slow fire until done, when place them on a hot di.sh before the fire. Thicken with a little flour, boil it up, and throw it over the fillets, with a squeeze of lemon-juice, if liked. Time to simmer, twenty minutes. Probable cost, Is. 7d. Mackerel, Fillets of, Stewed (another way).—Dis.solvo two ounces of butter in a stew- pan, with nearly a dessert-spoonful of flour, and mix them together until smooth. Add half the rind of a lemon, a tea-spoonful of soy, a salt-.spoonful of pounded mace, half a tea- spoonful of salt, and a little stock or water. Into this sauce place fillets from two fresh mackerel. Shake the pan over the fire to get tho fish equally covered with the Kaiu-.o, turninff them in aliout eight or ten miimtes. When they are done enough, remove tho fillets to a hot disli. boil up the sauce with a small wine-glassful of port, and pour it hot over the fish. Time, fifteen to twenty minutes. Probable cost, Is. Gd., exclusive of wine. Suflicient for three persons. Mackerel, Pried, French. — Bone three fine mackerel, removing the heads and tails, dry them well in a cloth, or rub a httle flour into them, so as to remove all moisture, sprinkle with pepper and siilt, and frj- lightly in hot dripping to cover them. They should be of a fine golden colour, and well drained. Place tliem on a dish, and either pour the following sauce over them, or serve in a tureen:—fStt;w the bones of the fish in half a pint of stock, add a thickening of butter and browned flour, say, one ounce of butter and a tea-spoonful of flour, well worked up together, the juice of a lemon, and a httle browning to colour it. Or, if pre- feiTcd, serve the fish with mustard-sauce, in which a table-spoonful of some good store sauce, such as Heading, Worcester, or Harvey, has been stiiTcd. Time, about fifteen minutes. Probable cost, 4d. to 6d. each. Suflicient for five or six persons. Mackerel, Pickled.—Boil slk mackerel in salt and water; when done, take them up, and lay them in a deep earthenware dish. Add three-quarters of a pint of ■s'inegar, a quarter of an ounce of whole black pepper, and three bay-leaves to the Hquor the fish was cooked in. Let it boil for seven or eight minutes, and when quite cold, pour it over the mackerel, cover down tightly, and in twenty-fom- hours the fish -will be ready for use. Time, fifteen to twenty minutes to boil. Probable cost, 2s. 8d. Mackerel Pie.—Clean three middling-sized mackerel, take out the melts and roes, which use in the composition of a forcemeat to stuff the fish. Add bread-crimibs, chopped parsley, a small bit of onion, if liked, mace, pepper, salt, a little butter, and an egg or two to cement the whole. Sew up the fish neatly, and lay them into an ordinal^' oval flat dish, -with an edging of good mashed potatoes or a puff crust. Balls of forcemeat wiU enrich the dish, and some rich sauce may be poured over the fish when baked; but both forcemeat and sauce should be delicately prepared. Cover with bread-crumbs, and put butter, in bits, over the fish. Time, half an hour, or more. Probable cost, 4d. each. Sufficient for four persons. Mackerel, Potted.—l^Iake a seasoning of salt, pepper, and pounded mace, in the pro- portion of a quarter of an ounce of white pepper to half the quantity of pounded mace, and an ounce of salt. Put a layer of well-cleaned split mackerel, divested of heads, tails, and fins, into a potting-dish, and sprinkle" over it part of the above seasoning. Lay the skin side downwards, and on the top of the seasoning ])lace about an ounce of butter, in bits; fill up with the fish to within an inch or two of the top, and ])our danfied butter to finish. Bake in a modcRite oven for one hour. I'robable cost, 4d. to 6d. each.HEAC ( 399 ; MAGt Mackerel, Potted (another -way). — Choose fresh fish of a moderate size. Cut off the heads and tails, remove the bones, take out the dark brown bitter portion near the heads, and divide the flesh into convenient-sized pieces. Lay these in a jar, season with pepper and salt, cover with vinegar, and put shallots and bay-leaves on the top, one of each for four fish. Cover closely and bake gently for two hours. Serve cold. Mackerel Roe, Sauce of.- Get roes from the male fish (soft ones). Boil two or thi-ee for ten minutes in water, then pound them ^v^th the yolks of two eggs. Have ready some fennel sauce, or parsley and butter, into wliich stii- the mackerel roe, adding a little walnut ketchup, pepper, salt, and vinegar, if required. The butter must be thin enough to allow of the thickening quality of the roes and egg-yolks. Time, ten minutes to boil. Mackerel Sauce, Gooseberry {see Gooseberry fSauce for Mackerel). Mackerel Sauce, or Fennel Sauce. —Pick fennel from the stalks, and boil it for a minute or two in boiling salted water, then chop it fine. Mix and blend well two dessert spoonfuls of baked flour with nearly a quarter of a pound of butter, put it into a saucepan with half a pint of boiling water, and stir until thick, add two dessert-spoonfuls of fennel, and serve hot in a tureen. Mackerel roes (soft ones) boiled and bruised well with yolk of egg may be added to the sauce, stin-ed in with the fennel. Time, ten minutes to simmer butter. Sufficient for a tui'een. Mackerel, Soused. — Boil, without breaking, two or three middle-sized mackerel, remove the bones, and split the fish carefully dowTi the back. Simmer gently in a pint of vinegar and water mixed, in equal quantities, a bay-leaf, half a dozen whole peppers, two Jamaica peppers, a pinch of cayenne, and a little salt. Pour this liquor when cold over the fish : if put in a deep dish they will be covered with it, and should not be served until they have steeped some hours. Serve, with fennel as a garnish, on a flat dish. Time, fifteen miniites to boil. Simmer spice for five minutes. Mackerel, with fine Herbs.—Rub butter over a baking-tin, and cover the bottom with a mince of fine herbs, about a dozen small mushrooms, four shallots, and a little parsley, which should be first fried and seasoned with pepper and salt. Lay the fish neatly trimmed on the herbs, and cover with fine bread-crumbs; moisten with a little good gravy, or white wine, and put lastly some bits of butter over the crumbs. Bake in a gentle oven, and serve browned with a salamander; squeeze a little lemon-juice over. Time, fifteen to twenty minutes. Probable cost, 4d. to 6d. each. Two mackerel will be sufficient for three persons. Mackerel, with Wine, Stewed.— stew three small mackerel or two large ones in a sauce made in the following manner:— Dissolve a piece of butter about the size of an egg, in an enamf^llcd stewpan; when melted Btir in a tea-spoonful of flour, a salt-spoonful of salt, a pinch of cayenne, a blade of mace, pounded, and, lastly, add little by little three glassfuls of burgundy. Sinuner the fish for twenty minutes or less, according to size, arrange them neatly on a. dish, stir a spoonful of French mustard into the gravy, pour the gravy over the fish, and serve very hot. Pro- bable cost, from 4d. to 6d. each. Sufficient for four persons. Madeira Buns.—Put into half a pound of flour rather more than a quarter of a pound of butter, add three ounces of sifted sugar, the grated rind of half a lemon, a small tea-spoonful of powdered ginger, half an ounce of caraway-seeds, a little nutmeg, and a pinch of salt; stir well together, and add two eggs well beaten, and half a wine-glassful of sherry. Bake quickly in patty-pans for about fifteen minutes. The above ingredients are sufficient for eight large buns. Probable cost, 8d. Madeira Pudding.—The beauty of this pudding depends on contrasting well the colours of the jams. Make a good butter or suet crust; roll it out thinly, cut in rounds—the size of the tin in which you intend to boil the pudding— several pieces of crust; put at the bottom of the tin a layer of crust, then one of light-coloured jam—say greengage—then another layer of crust, then a red jam, and so on until the tin is filled. Boil the pudding in a cloth for two hom-s and a half, turn it out very carefully, and before seri'ing sift a little white sugar over it. The tin should have a loose bottom, so that the pudding can slip out easily. It must be well buttered first. Madeira Sauce, Lumber Beef in {see Beef, Lumber, in Madeim Sauce). Madeira "Wine Jelly.—This very agi-ee- able and excellent jelly takes its name from the wine used. The stock for it is made from calves' feet, and precisely in the same manner as the ordinary calf's-foot jeUy {see Calf's Foot Jelly). To a quart of the jelly, clarified, add half a pint or more of madeira, and a glass of brandy; but as this will reduce the strength, a little isinglass, also clarified, say about half an ounce, will give it the necessary firmness. Time, one hour. Madonna Pudding.—Put thiee-quarters of a pound of bread-crumbs into a basin with eight ounces of finely-shred suet, and the same weight of good powdered sugar. Beat up two eggs with a large table-spoonful of brandy, add these, with the grated rind of a large lemon, to the ingredients in the basin. Beat the mixture until it is smooth, with a wooden spoon. If labour be not spared in this respect, the pudding will be a success. FLU a buttered mould, tie a floured cloth over, plunge into boiling water, and boil four hours. Probable cost, about Is. 2d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Madras Curry {sec Curr^'-, Madras). Magdalen Cake.—Boat well ten fresh eggs, and again beat with them eight ounces of finely-powdered sugar. Turn six ounces of butter to a cream with the hand, and mix the eggs very gradually with it; lastly, add, hghtiv and at intervals, steadily stirring the mixture.( 400 ) MAi MAQ eight ounces of fine ttom-, well dried. Blanch uiul slicii thinly two oimcoH of Bwoot almonda, and the same of candiiid orango-pool. Stir thu orauno-poel into tho maHH, but scatter tho ahnonda ovur tho insido of a buttered cako-tiii, whicii till with tho mixture, putting more almonds over tho top. The cake should be put into the oven quickly. Time, about an hour to l)ake; half an hour to boat tho mixtiu'o. Probable cost, 2s. Magentas.—Break twelve fresh eggs, hut separate tho yolks from the whites. Put tho yolks into a Ifu-go bowl, and whip up oiglit of tho whites in a basin. Add to the yolks two ounces of bitter almonds, blanched and pounded, half tho weight of bruised orange-flowers, and a poimd of fine sugar. Mash these ingredients with a wooden spoon, working them briskly for some time, when their appearance should be creamy and as smooth as custard. Now mix in three-quarters of a pound of fine tloui- with six ounces of butter, dissolved, but not oiled, and, lastly, the frothed whites of the eggs. Bake tho biscuits in smaU tins, well buttered and strewn with chopped almonds; cover also the top of the biscuits with almonds and powdered sugar. Bake in a moderate oven of a hght coloui-. Time, half an hour. Probable cost, Is. 8d. Magnum Bonum, or other large Plums, Conipote of.—Take oflE the stalks, and ^vipe the fruit. Simmer a pound of the plums in a syrup, made with six ounces of sugar dissolved in half a pint of water, and according to the variety and acidity of fruit, add more sugar if required. Stew very gently for twenty minutes. Time, ten minutes to boil the sjTup. Magnum Bonum Jam.—The magnum bonum is the largest of our plums, and is ex- cellent for jam and for other purposes. Choose the fruit when fully ripe. Take ofiE the skins, remove the stones, and boil the plums gently for forty minutes, keeping them well stirred all the time to prevent their burning; add thi'ee pounds of sugar in lumps for every four pounds of fruit and boil ten minutes longer. Three or four minutes before the jjim is taken from the fire, add quarter of the kernels blanched and sliced. Probable cost of plums, 6d. per dozen. Magnum Bonum Plums, To Pre- serve.—Take fine whole fruit, ripe and ^vithout bruise; peel and open them only just enough to extract the stones ; handle them lightly, so that the juice may not be drawn and lost. Weigh the plums, and strew over each pound of fruit, placed on a flat diah, one pound of good powdered sugar, and cover them for twelve hours. Put them into a preserving-pan with tho sugar; boil very gently (or the fruit will shrivel) for about half an hour. If the plums look clear, lift them out carefully with a spoon and put them into jars. Crush tho stones, blanch and split the kernels, put some with the syrup (tho quantity must depend on taste),but they are generally thought to impart a delicious flavour to the preserve ; boil the syrup rapidly until a little put upon a plate will set, then pour it over the plums in the jars. This recipe will serve for largo plums in general, and for apricots. Magnum Bonum Plums, To Pre- serve (another way;.—-bVt Plums, ila-num Boniini. Maids of Honour.—Judicious diotse- cakes so called at iiiclmiond, where they are to bo had in perfection. We think the following recipe genuine :—Beat two eggs, and mix them with a quart of new milk; add the eggs and milk to a quart of lioiling water in a saucepan; pour in lemon-juice, and remove tho curd, as it rises, to a sieve to drain; mix the curd with tho yolks of four eggs, previously well beaU^u, a large cupful of clotted cream, the rijid of a lemon, rubbed off on sugar, a httlo pounded cinnamon, a quarter of a nutmeg, gmted, six ounces of cun-ants, well washed and di-ied, and a glass of brandy. Mix well, and bake in patty-pans, buttered and lined with a hght French puff paste. Time, about twenty minutes to bake. Probable cost, 28. 6d. Sufficient for twenty-four cheesecakes. Maids of Honour, Plain.—Beat an oimce and a half of fresh butter, and a break- fast cupful of well drained milk curd together, until smooth; add an egg, and a cupful of milk beaten together, and sugar to sweeten: with the latter rub off the rind of a lemon, or sub- stitate any other flavouring preferred. Bake in patty-pans, lined with half puff paste rolled very thin. Time, ten to twelve minutes to bake. Maintenon Cutlets (Gouffe's method).— Leave two bones to each cutlet, and remove one of them. Split open without separating at the top. Spread a little D'Uxelles sauce inside, refold them, then broil four minutes on each side. Spread a little D'Uxelles on a dish, lay the cutlets on this, and pour D'Uxelles sauce over. Place in a hot oven for four minutes, and serve. D'Uxelles may be made by frjdng equal quantities of chopped mushroom, shallot, parsley, and lean ham in butter for five minutes. D'Uxelles sauce is this preparation with good brown sauce stirred into it. Maitre d'flotel Butter.—Knead to. gether (on a plate and with the point of a knife) equal quantities of chopped parsley and fresh butter. Add pepper, salt, and a little lemon-juice. Keep in a cool place. When a dish is said to be a la Maitre d'Hotel it is generally served with this butter. Maitre d'Hotel Sauce.— Melt two ounces of fresh butter in a small enamelled saucepan and stir to it, by degrees, two tea- spoonfuls of flour; continue stirring for five or ten minutes, until the butter and flour are well blended, when add, also by degrees, a quarter of a pint of boiling cream and a quarter of a pint of good veal stock, also boiUng; add a few spoonfuls of each at a time, and stir well, allowing the sauce to simmer a minute or two between each addition. "Wlien perfectly smooth, put in the strained juice of a lemon, or, if prefeiTcd, a table-spoonful of chili vinegar, a little pepper, or cayenne, or a pinch of »ilt, and a table-spoonful of chopped parsley. The volks of two eggs arc a great improvement to this Bauce, and are almost necessary when it wMAI MAI ( 401 ) served with fish; but in that case only half tho quantitv of Hour should bo used, as the eggs ^lelp tothick-ou. For tho plainer way :—Take half a pint of milk, thicken it with one ounce of butter and a heaped tea-spoonful of flour well worked together, and flavour with lemon- juice, pepper, and salt. Adda table-spoonful of scalded and chopped parsley. The parsley and lemon-juice should be added off the fire, Maitro d'Hotel Sauce may be simply made thus : beat till smooth over the fire one ounce of butter, and half an oimce of flour. Add a third of a pint of water, stir and boil, then add two table-spoonfuls of cream or milk. Take the pan off the fire, and add parsley, lemon-juice, pepper, and salt. Maize or Indian Corn.—This is the noblest of the cereal grasses. It was found native in America when that continent was discovered, and it now constitutes the bread- corn in North America, Mexico, and a great part of Africa. It is almost as extensively used for the support of man as rice, but there sure greiit differences of opinion as to its merits. It is said to contain very little gluten and sugar ready formed, and hence it is asserted that its nutritive power must be small. Certainly it cannot be fermented into good bread without the addition of wheat-flour; yet people who live-upon it are as healthy and strong as could be wished. The American and West Indian labourers think no bread so strengthening as that which is made of Indian corn-flour. When it is coarsely groimd and boiled, maize forms the hominy of the southern portion of the United States. The porridge made of Indian meal goes in North America under the name of mush {see Mush of Indian C!om). The entire grains are employed under the name of Milled corn or samp. 'WTien the unripe grains are slightly roasted, they burst and turn inside out, and look veiy pecu- liar ; in this state they are called pop-corn, and are much relished as food in America. The unripe cobs of Indian com are often pickled as weil as boiled for the table. The starch of maize is a good substitute for arrowroot, and is largely employed in this country under various names, Oswego corn-flour, &c. " Maize," says Mr. C. W. Johnson, " was brought very prominently into notice by Mr. Cob- bett, who grew with much success a dwarf variety on his farm of Bam Ebn, near London, and published an elaborate treatise on its culture, and the uses to which it could be applied. Notwithstanding his strenuous advo- cacy, its cultivation has never been much approved of, and in no part of the kingdom is it grown to any extent. This valuable plant . produces a much larger number of ears, which aV)f)nnd with a greater proportion of wholesome m«ily matter than any European grain; and, as Indian com prospers in low swampy situa- tions, where it tends to dry up the superfluous moisture, and to render the soil firm, it might perhaps be advantageously cultivated in the southern counties of Great Britain; but un- fortunately it requires a higher summer heat than we generally experience in these islands." Maize, Boiled.—It is a subject of regret that this vegetable, so highly esteemed in America, is not to be obtained in this country; at least, not in a fresh state. It can, however, be procured preserved in tins, and though in that state much of its freshness is lost, it will be much appreciated by those housekeepers who study vaiiety. Strip the stalks of the fibre and outside covering, boil from twenty to twenty- five minutes; drain, place a piece of toast at the bottom of the dish, and pour rich melted butter over the ears. Maize is in America simply boiled, and served with a piece of fresh butter. One ear of grain is sufficient for one person. Maize, Boiled (another way).—See Green Indian Corn or Maize, To Boil. Maize Indian {see Indian Maize). Maize, Mush of {see Mush of Indian Corn). Maize, Roasted.—The following is Wil- liam Cobbett's account of this process:— " Eoasted ears," he says, " are certainly the greatest delicacy that ever came in contact with the palate of man. In America, where thej' bum wood upon the hearth, they contrive to have a bright fire, wdth a parcel of live wood coals on the hearth ; they lay something of iron across the two hand-irons, which are used in the fireplace, sweep the ashes up clean, and then they take the ears of corn and set them up along in a row, facing the tire, and leaning gently against the bar which they have put across. When one side is brown, you turn the other side towards the fire ; or, rather, you turn then roimd gradually, until the whole be brown; and when the whole of the grains be brown, you lay them in a dish, and put them on the table. These are so many little bags of roasted milk, the sweetest that can be imagined; or, rather, are of the most delightful taste. You leave a little tail of the ear, two inches long, or thereabouts, to turn it and handle it by. You take a thin piece of butter upon a knife, which will cling to the knife on one side, while you gently rub it over the eai- from the other side. Thus the ear is buttered ; then you take a little salt, according to your fancy, and sprinkle it over the ear ; you then take the tail of the ear in one hand, and the point of the ear in the other hand, and bite the grains off the cob; I need hardly say that this must be done with the fore teeth, and that those who have none must be content to live without green eai's, for, as to taking the grains off with a knife, they are too deeply implanted to admit of that; and, if you attempt cutting, you will cut cob and aU. When you have finished one ear, you lay the cob aside, and go to another ... I defy all tho arts of French cookery, upon which so many volimies have been written, to produce any- thing so delightful to the palate as this." Maize Suppawn.~"This," saysCobbett, " is neither more nor less than porridge ; that is to say, boiling milk, broth, or water, thickened with com-flour, in the same way that people in the South of England thicken them with wheat- flour, and tho people in the North of England thicken them with oatmeal. Put into water, this is a breakfast, or supper, or dinner for little children; put into milk or broth, it is the same for grown people ; with milk or broth, it( 402 ) KAJ is a good strong moal, and quite sufficient us breakfast or supper for man to work upou." Majesty Biscuits.—Blanch and pound well two ounces of bitter and two ounces of sweot almonds, liub into a pound of flour the same quimtity of butter, add one pound of crushed lump sugar, and the pounded almonds, and moisten the whole with one egg. Drop the mi,\ture on a buttered tin, in pieces not larger th an a Barcelona nut, and bake in a slow oven imtil the biscuits are of a pale yellow colour. When taken out of the oven they will be soft, but will harden and be quite crisp when cold. Thoy must then bo put into a tin canister, and vdll keep for months. Time, ton minutes to bake. Probable cost, lOd. a pound. The above ingredients are sufficient to make three pounds )f biscuits. Malabar Curry.—Mix together a table- spoouf ul of cui-ry powder and half that quantity of flour; cut a fowl into neat pieces, and cover these with the mixture. Shred an onion, and brown it in a stewpan with a good lump of butter; put the pieces of fowl into the same hutter, add more if necessary, and when thoy have nearly absorbed the butter, moisten with a cup of good white stock or broth, and shake the pan for a minute or two, when pour in the remainder of a pint, and stew until done. Part of a rasped cocoa-nut will greatly improve the curry ; it helps also to thicken it. Grate it just before it is wanted, and mix it well into the cuiTy by shaking the pan over the fire. Just before serving, flavour with half the juice of a lemon and half a wine-glassful of vinegar. Season with salt, and send plain boiled rice to table in a separate dish. Serve hot. Time, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, 48. Sufficient for four persons. Malaprop Cake.—Break four fresh eggs, and divide the yolks and whites. Put the yolks into separate cups, and beat them well. Whisk the whites to a stiff froth. Turn eight ounces of butter to cream, and blend with it eight ounces of finely-sifted sugar. Stir these ingre- dients, and continue to mix until the egg-yolks have been added one by one, and then, very gradually, add eight ounces of dry flour. Lastly, stir in the whites of the eggs. Put any flavouring desired. If essence, put a few drops with the cream, but a table-spoonful of grated lemon-peel may be mixed with the floirr. Line the tin with a buttered paper, and bake in a brisk oven for one hour. Probable cost. Is. 7d. The above quantities are sufficient for one cake. Malay Curry {see Currj^ Malay). Malmsey.—The genuine malmsey wines of commerce possess a luscious sweetness, and A most peculiar bouquet. They are mostly the produce of Sardinia, Sicily, Provence, Teneriffe, the Madeiras, the Azores, and the Lipari Isles. Malmsey wine is made from grapes groT^Ti on rocky ground, and exposed to the full light and heat "of the sun; the fruit is allowed to hang on the vines for a month longer than if required for making dry wines, by which time it is par- tially withered. Malmsey, Scotch.—This is a good hom«. made wine. Get from a stnjng bcjer brewtir six gallons of Bwoot fresh woils, or the; Kam« quantity of pot alv from a diMtill(;r. To this add as imicli water, and to (jvery gallon of liipior put two pounds of sugar, or one of sugar and one of good honey. Ferment, after mixing in the sugar well, and let the liquor remain a month in the cask, keojjing it full. In the meantime, soak four pounds of the best raisins, and twelve pounds of bitter almondh, both chopped, in a quart of flavourless whiskey; add this, and an ounce of isinglass melted in wine, to the liquor in the cask when it is cleared by fermentation. J\lix well, and put into botthii after a month or six weeks. Malt Liquor.—(To brew ale). The uten- sils required are, first, a copper that ■will con- tain at least forty gallons. Second, a mashing- tub, to contain sixty gallons; for the malt is to be put into this along with the water. It must be a little broader at top than at bottom, and not quite so deep as it is wide at the bottom. In the middle of the bottom there is a hole about two inches over, to draw the wort oft'. Into this hole goes a stick, a foot or two longer than the tub is high. This stick is to be about two inches through, and tapered for about eight inches upwards at the end that goes into the hole, which at last it fills up as closely as a cork. Before anything else is put into the tub, lay a little bundle of fine birch, about half the bulk of a birch-broom, and well tied at both ends. This being laid over the hole (to keep back the grains as the wort goes out), put the tapered end of the stick down through it into the hole, and thus cork the hole up. Then have something of weight sufficient to keep the birch stead)' at the bottom of the tub, with a hole through it, to slip do^vn the stick; the best thing for this purpose will be a leaden collar for the stick, with the hole large enough, and iu should weigh three or four pounds. Third, an underback, or shallow tub, to go imder the mash-tub for the wort to run into when drawn from the grains. Fourth, a tun-tub, that will contain thirty gallons, to put the ale into to work, the mash-tub serving as a tun-tub for the small beer. Besides these, a couple of coolers, or shallow tubs, about a foot deep; or if three or four it may be as well, in order to effect the cooling more quickly. The following is the process of brewing ale as described by the cele- brated William Cobbett:—" Begin to brew by filling the copper with water, and next by making the water boil. Then put into the mashing-tub water sufficient to stir and sepa- rate the malt. The degree of heat that the water is to be at, before the malt is put in, is 170 degrees by the thermometer; but, without one, take this rule; when you can, looking down into the tub, see your face clearly in the water, the water is hot enough. Now put in the malt, and stir it well in the water. In this state it should continue for about a quarter of an hour. In the meanwhile, fill up the coi)per and make it boil; and then put in boiling water sufficient to giw eighteen gallons of ale. "\Mien the proper quantity of water is in, stir the malt again well, and cover the ma.shing-tub overMAli ( 403 ) with sacks, and then let the mash stand for two hours; then draw off the wort.' The mashing- tub is placed on a couple of stools, so as to be able to put the underbade under it to receive the wort as it comes out of the hole. When the underbade is put in its place, let out the wort by pulling up the stick that corks the hole. But observe, this stick (which goes six or eight inches through the hole) must be raised bv de"ga"ees, and the wort must be let out slowly in order to keep back the sediment; so that it is necessary to have something to keep the stick up at the point where it is to be raised and ti.xed at for the time. To do this, the simplest thing is a stick across the mashing-tub. As the ale-wort is drawn off into the small underback, lade it out of that into the tvm-tub; put the wort into the copper, and add a pound and a half of good hops, well rubbed and separated as they are put in. Now make the copper boil, and keep it, with the lid oft", at a good brisk boil for a full hour, or an hour and a half. When the boiling is done, put the liquor into the coolers; but strain out the hops in a small clothes-basket, or wicker basket. Now set the coolers in the most convenient place, in doors or out of doors. The next stage is the tun-tub, where the Kquor is set to work. A great point is the degree of heat that the liquor is to be at when it is set to work. The proper heat is seventy degrees, so that a thennometer makes the matter sui-e. In the country they deter- mine the degree of heat by merely putting a finger into the liquor. When cooled to the pro- per heat, put it into the tun-tub, and put in about half a pint of good yeast. But the yeast shovdd first be put into half a gallon of the liquor and mixed weU; stirring in with the yeast a handful of wheat or rye-flour. This mixture is then to be poured out clean into the tun-tub, and the mass of liquor agitated well, till the yeast be well mixed with the whole. ^V^len the liquor is thus properly put into the tun-tub, and set a-working, cover over the top by laying a sack or two across it. The tun-tub should stand in a place neither too warm nor too cold: any cool place in summer, and any warm place in winter, and if the weather be rery cold, some cloths or sacks should be put round the tun-tub while the beer is working. In about six or eight hours a frothy head w3l rise upon the liquor; and it will keep rising, more or less slowly, for forty-eight hours. The best way is to take off the froth, at the end of about twenty-four hours, with a conmion skimmer, and in twelve hours take it off again, and so on, till the liquor has done working, and sends up no more yeast. Then it is beer; and, when it is quite cold (for ale, or strong beer), put it into the cask by means of a funnel. It must be cold before this is done, or it will be foxed that is, have a rank and disagreeable taste. The cask should lean a little on one side when filling it, because the beer will work again, and send more yeast out of the bunghole. Some- thing will go off in this working, which may continue for two or three days, so that when the beer is putting into the cask, a gallon or tivo should be left, to keep filling up with as the working produces emptiness. At last, when the working is completely over, block the cask up to its level. Put in a handful of fresh hops; fill the cask quite fuU, and bung it tight, with a bit of coarse linen round the bung. Wlien the cask is empty great care must be taken to cork it tightly up, so that no air gets in; for, if so, the cask is moulded and spoiled for ever." Malt Liquor.—(To brew small beer). Thirty-six gallons of boiling water are to go into the mashing-tub {see the preccdiag recipe); the grains are to be well stirred up, as in the process of brewing ale; the mashing-tub is to be covered over, and the mash is to stand in that state for an hour; then draw it off into the tun-tub. By this time the copper win be empty again, by putting the ale-liquor to cool. Now, put the small-beer wort into the copper with the hops used before, and with half a pound of fresh hops added to them.; and this liquor boil briskly for an hour. Take the giuins and the sediment clean out of the masMng-tub, put the bii-ch-twigs in again, and put down the stick as before. Put the basket over, and take the liquor from the cop- per (put the fire out first), and pour it into the mashing-tub through the basket. Take the basket away, throw away the hops, and leave the small-beer liquor to cool in the mashing- tub. Here it is to remain to be set to working; only, more yeast wiU be wanted in proportion ; and there should be, for thirty-six gallons of small beer, three half-pints of good yeast. Proceed now as with the ale, only, in the case of small beer, it should be put into the cask not quite cold, but a little warm, or else it will not work in the barrel, which it ought to do. It will not work so strongly nor so long as ale, and may be put in the barrel much sooner—in general, the next day after it is brewed. All the utensils should be well cleaned and put away as soon as they are done with. With care they will last a long time. " I am now," says Cobbett, when describing the above pro- cess, "in a farmhouse where the same set of utensils has been used for forty years, and the owner teUs me that they may last for forty years longer." Malt, Quality of, To Ascertain.— Choose that which breaks soft, sifts full, smells sweet, has a thin skin, and tastes sweet and meUow. It should swim on water; should it sink, it contains unmalted barley. Pale malt, or that which is dried at a low temperature, produces the strongest wort, and is most whole- some. Brown malt, which is dried with more heat, gives a darker coloured wort, which is weaker, and takes a longer time fining, than if brewed with pale malt. Amber malt is between the two. Malvern Apple Pudding.—To a pound of finely-grated bread-crumbs and an equal weight of good russet apples—peeled, cored, and chopped small—add four ounces of moist sugar, a tea-spoonful of grated lemon-peel, or the rind of half a lemon, minced as small as possible, and four well-beaten eggs. Mix thoroughly with a wooden spoon, and throw in from time to time, while beating the mixture, a pound and a half, or more, of clean dry currants, and a glass of brandy. Boil in a floured cloth, which should be tied quite tight, without ^ny spaceMAN MAL ( 404 ) boing left for swolliiif,'. Time, four hours to Probable c;ost, 1h. 6d. Sufliciont for two piuldingH. Malvern Pudding.—Put two doHHort- spoonfiils of Oswego corn-flour into a huHin, and mix with a little cold milk, say a])oiit two table-apoonfiilH. Boil together foiir ounceH of good loaf sugar and half a pint of now milk. Stir it into the basin while boiling hot, adding, when the heat has a little gcmo oif, three well- boaton eggs, with throe tablo-spoonf iils of good cream, which should bo thicik, and a little nut- meg. If cream bo not at hand, use more eggs. Pour some of this custard into a buttered dish, and have ready boiled some well-flavoured apples, sweetened with half their weight of good loaf sugar, and made pleasant to the taste with the grated rind and juice of a lemon. Put a layer of the marmalade on the Oswego custard, and fiU up alternately. Bake in a brisk oven. Time, twenty to twenty-five minutes. The apple and custard will be very good served cold. Manchester Pudding. — Boil three table-spoonfuls of grated bread-crumbs in half a pint of milk, which has been previously flavoured with vanilla or lemon-peel, for three or four minutes; add to it when off the boil the yolks of twc eggs, a piece of butter the size of an egg, eight lumps of sugar, and half a gill of brandy. Place a layer of any rich jam (green- gage, strawberry, or apricot) at the bottom of a pie-dish, pour in the mixture when cold, orna- ment the edge of the dish with a border of puff paste, and bake for an hour. This pudding may be eaten either hot or cold; if hot, whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth with a little sugar, spread it over the top of the pudding, and retm-n it to the oven for five minutes to set. If to be eaten cold, merely sift some powdered sugar over it and serve. Probable cost, Is. 4d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Mandarin Pudding.—Mix a quarter of a pound of fine bread-crumbs, a quarter of a pound of well-chopped suet, a quarter of a pound of Jamaica preserved green ginger, with two eggs and two table-spoonfuls of the syrup of the ginger. Pour the mLxture into a buttered mould cr basin, and steam for four hours. Pro- bable cost. Is. Sufficient for five or six persons. Mandram Sauce.—Mince two shallots or a middle-sized onion as finely as possible. Chop or slice a cucumber, and let the vegetables stand in water for a few minutes; then drain them dry. Sprinkle lightly with salt, and add the cucumber, a small pinch of cayenne, and part of a capsicum, sliced, with a table-spoonful of vinegar, and two of white wine. If the cu- cumber be sliced, the onion should be chopped, and vice vemd. Time, five minutes to drain the cucumber. Mandrang.—Cut a large green cucumber into quarters, peel it and scoop out any seeds there may bo in it; cut it into fine shreds about half an inch long; put th(?se into a sauce- turcen, and add two table-spoonfuls of chopped onion, salt and pepper to taste; add aIso the juice of a lemon, three or four drops of anchop- sauce, and as much sherry or hock as will moisten the whole. Serve with any kind of roast meat. Time, before using, twenty minutes. Pro])able cost, Taxclusivo of wine, 8d. or 9d. Mange, Apple {nee Apple Mange). Mangel Wurzel.—This is a kind of rod boot. According to some authoriti(;H, it is a mongrel between red and white boot. Its cul- tivation in Great Britain is gradually extend- ing. In Prance, (iermany, and Switzerland it has long been grown, partly a« food for cuttle, and partly to bo used iji distillation and in tha extraction of sugar. * Mangel Wurzel, Ale from.—In the Quarterly Joitriiai uf AyricitUure (vol. iii., p. 36;3) a method is described of making ale from this root. A portion of about ton pounds of the root to a gallon will make a good liquor, but with fifteen pounds' weight to the gallon an excellent ale will be produced; the addition of two pounds weight of treacle to a firkin will be a great improvement. One-third malt and two-thirds mangel wurzel will make capital ale. " One method is first to wash and clean the roots well, take the top off completely, scrape (rather, pare) off the outer rind, slice and boil them till soft and pulpy; squeeze the liquor from the pulp as much as possible, and then boil it again with about six ounces of hops to nine gallons, and work with yeast in the usiml way. Thus a cottager, by boiling his pot over his winter tire of a night, and using the root as we have described, might seldom be without a refreshing beverage even the greatest part of the year, for the roots may be kept in a cool place, in a proper state for use, during moat of the winter." Mangel Wurzel Beer.—A pleasant, healthy bitter beer can be made in a very economical method, by using mangel-wurzel instead of malt. The saccharine matter in the mangel-wurzel is fermented with some best hops, and the beverage thus obtained will be found acceptable in families where brewer's beer is considered too costly, or where it is some trouble to get. For the convenience of small families, we have given the proportions for a ten-gallon cask ; but the beer is better when made in larger quantities. Wash the roots clean, and slice them. Boil until they can be broken up easily. To sixty pounds so sliced, add fourteen gallons of water. AATien the liquor has been pressed out and the roots are drj-, boil together their juice and the water in which they were bcilod first, with the addition of a quarter of a pound of hops; let them boil about an hour and a haK, then cool the liquor as qiiickly as possible to 70 degrees Fahrenheit. Strain it through a thick cloth laid over a sieve; put it into the vat with about six oimces of yeast, stir it well, cover, and let it stand twenty-four hours; if the yeast has then well risen skim it off, and baiTol the beer, keeping back the thick sediment. "V^Tiilo the fermenta- tion goes on in the cask it may be filled up with the beer left over, or wnth any other kind at hand; when the fermentation ceases, in about two or throe davs, the cask must bp liungod up, and in a few days the beer will bo ready for use. It may be drawn from the cask oi bottled.MAP MAN ( 405 ) Mango.—Of all the tropical fruits, the mango is one of the most grateful to Europeans. In fonn it is like a short, thick cucumber. The Bkin of the fruit is thick, and the inteiior con- sists of a pulp, which melts in the mouth with cooling sweetness. Mango Chutney.—Peel, core, and quarter six poimds of sour apples, and boil them in nearly two pints of vinegar; pound eight ounces of onions, about ten or twelve ounces of ginger, and four ounces of garlic together; add these to the apples and vinegar, with twelve ounces each of sugar (which should be first dissolved), stoned raisins, and mustard-seed; this last should be washed in vinegar, and dried in the 8\m, before being added. Mix weU in a large bowl, and throw in, while mixing, another pint of vinegar, and four ounces of diied chillies. Bottle at once closely and tie bladder over the cork. Probable cost, Ss. 6d. for this quantity. Mangoes, Cucumber {see Cucumber Mangoes). Mangoes, Melon [nee Melon Mangoes). Mangoes, Pickled.—Take a melon of the sort generally used for pickling, first seeing that it is not quite ripe; cut ofi: a slice from the top, and carefully pick out all the seeds. Shi'ed finely one ounce of garlic; mix it with two ounces of mustard-seed, and the seeds of the melon. Now, put this back as a stuffing, place the top on, and bind it down. Boil, in two quarts of best vinegar, one ounce of Jamaica peppers, one oimce of whole allspice, one ounce of bruised ginger, and a tea-spoonful of salt; when boUing pour it over the melon. The same vinegar must be put into a saucepan, boiled up again, and thrown over the melon for three successive diiys, or more if possible ; then tie down with bladder to exclude the air. Manna Croup Pudding. — This pud- ding is made in the same way as most grain- puddings, but may be greatly improved by add- ing a few choppiid or pounded almonds. Boil six dessert-spoonfuls of manna croup in a pint of new milk, with half an oimce of bitter almonds, blanched and pounded, and eight lumps of white sugar, for two minutes, then pour the mixture into a buttered pic-dish, and let it stfind for twenty minutes. ^Vhon almost cold, stir in three weU-bcatcn eggs, and bake in a moderate oven for thirty or thirty-five minutes. I'robable cost, 8d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Manna Groats or Manna Croup.— This is a kind of semolina, prepared in Russia— usually from the hard wheats of Odessa and Taganrog. «' In the process of grinding for flour, small rounded fragments of these hard grains are obtained from the grooves of the grinding-stones, and these constitute the ordi- nary manna groats, which forms one of the most esteemed materials for puddings. It is undistinguishable from the semolina of Italy. Another kind is mjide by husking the .small gniin of the aquatic grass Glycerin- Jlidtam, which is carefully collected for the purpose; it 18 expensive, and is only used as a luxury. Small quantities of the common kind are occasionally imported into this country, but it is by no means sufficiently well known." Mansfield Pudding.—Chop three ounces of suet; add to it one table-spoonful of flour, four table-spoonfuls of currants, a pincu of nut- meg, two oimces of moist sugar, the soft part of a French roll, which has been previously soaked in half a pint of boiling cream or milk, and well beaten, a table-spoonful of brandy, a table- spoonful of cream, and two eggs. Beat the pudding with a fork for four or five minutes, and put it into a buttered dish, or into a china mould, if preferred. Time to bake in a mode- rate oven, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for three or four persons. Manx Cake.—Rub oflE the peel from half a large lemon on lumps of sugar; ascertain the weight of sugar, and add as much more of pounded sugar as wiU make eight ounces in all. Mix the pounded sugar with eight ounces of rice-flom\ Beat eight eggs until you can take up a spoonful free from strings; dissolve the lumps of sugar in the beaten eggs, and mix them gradually with the flour. "When these ingredients are well beaten together, bake in a buttered tin. Time, thirty minutes to bake; to beat the eggs, twenty-five to thirty minutes. Probable cost, Is. 2d. for this quantity. Maple.—The sugar-maple is a species of maple not unlike the sycamore. It abounds in the northern distncts of the United States and in the British North American possessions. Large quantities of sugar are made from it, but almost solely for domestic use. A single tree yields from two to six pounds of sugar in a season. Maple Sugar, Apparatus required for Making. — In many localities, where wood is no object, a rude method of boiling is followed ; but where fuel is sairce, a cheap apparatus should be prepared that will require but little fuel. In some districts broad pans or- kettles have been made, of sheet-iron bottoms, and sides of plank or boards, care being taken to allow the fire to come in centact with the iron only. These pans cost but a trifle, and, owing to their large surface, the evaporation is rapid. Another cheap construction for boiling with economy is to make a light box of plank, some four or five feet square—the width of a wide plank will answer—^and then put into it, almost at the bottom, a piece of large copper funnel, say ten or twelve inches at the outer part, and then smaller. This funnel, beginning near one end, should run back nearly to the opposite side, then turn, and come out at the opposite end—or at the side near the end, as most convenient—being in only two straight parts, that the soot may be cleared out. Each end should be made tight with a flange naUed to the box. At the mouth of the large part there should be a door to reduce the draught; hero make the fire, and at the other end have a funnel to carry ofl: the smoke. In this case there is only sheet-copper between the fire and tlie sap which sun-ounds the funnel, so that the heat is readily taken up by the liquid, and very httle escapes. For catching the sap vanous kinds of vessels are used. The cheapesMAP ( 406 ) MAP are made of white birch, which last one season, or less. Troughs of pine, or linden, or bass- wood may bo had for a ti-ifle each, and they will lust for a number of years if inverted in the shade of trees. But those are inconvenient, and after the first year they become dirty, and clog the stip. Pails with iron hoops are the best, and eventually the cheapest. By painting and preserving them they will keep for many years. Maple Sugar, Fining of.—An Oswego authority remarks that, from mismanagement in the process of manufacture, maple sugar frequently becomes very impm-e. Its value is lessened, while the expense of making it is in- creased. " I am sensible," he adds, " that tne method which I shall recommend is not alto- gether a new one, and that it is more by attending to some apparently minute and trivial circum- stances, than to any new plan, that my sugar is so good. Much has been written upon, and many useful improvements have been made in, that part of the process which relates to tap- ping the trees, and gathering and evaporating the sap, &c.; but still, if the final operation is not understood, there will be a deficiency in the quality of the sugar. I shall confine myself to that part of the operation which relates to reducing the syrup to sugar, as it is of the first importance. My process is this:—When the sjTup is reduced to the consistence of West India molasses, I set it away till it is perfectly cold, and then mix with it the clarifying mat- ter, which is milk or eggs—I prefer eggs to mUk. The eggs should be thoroughly beaten, and effectually mixed with the sjTup while cold. The 8}Tup should then be heated till just before it weald uou, when the curd rises, bring- ing with it every impurity, even the colouring matter, or a great portion of that which it had received from the smoke, kettle, buckets, or re- servoirs. The boiling should be checked, and the scum carefully removed, when the syrup should be slowly turned into a thick woollen strainer, and left to run through at leisure. I would remark that a great proportion of the sugar that is made in our country is not strained after cleansing. This is an error. If examined in a wine-glass, innumerable minute and almost imperceptible particles of curd will be seen floating in it, which, if not removed, render it liable to burn, and othei-Avise injure the taste and colour of it. A flannel strainer does this much better than a linen one. It is, indeed, mdispensaMe. As to the quantity of eggs ne- cessary, one pint to a pailful of syi-up is amply suflicient, and half as much will 'do very well. I now put my syrup into another kettle, which has been made perfectly clean and bright, when it is placed over a quick but solid fire, and soon rises, but is kept from overflowing by being ladled with a long dipper. When it is suffi- ciently reduced (I ascertain this by dropping it from the point of a knife, when hot, into one inch of cold water—if done, it will not imme- diately mix with the water, but Avill lie at the bottom in a round, flat drop), it is taken from the fire, and the foaming allowed to subside. A thick white scum, which is usable, is re- movcdj and the sugar turned into a cask, placed on an inclined pktform, and left undisturbed for six weeks, or longer, when it should h>i tapped in the bottom, and the moksses drawn oil'. It will drain perfectly dry in a few days. The sugar made in this maimer is very ntjarly as white as lump sugar, and beautifully grained. From the scum taken off in cleansing I usually make, by diluting and re-cleansing, one-sixth as much as I had at first, and of an equal quality. It is not of much consequence, as regards the quality of tlie sugar, whether care be taken to keep the sap clean or not. The points in which the greatest errors are com- mitted are—neglecting to use a flannel strain<;r, or to strain after cleansing, to have; the sugar- kettle properly cleaned, and to remove the white scum from the sugar." Maple Sugar, To Make.—The process of making maple sugar is very simple, and easily performed. It begins by the preparation of spouts and troughs or tubs for the trees; the spouts or tubes are made of elder, sumach, or pine, sharpened to fit an auger-hole of about three-fourths of an inch in diameter. The hole is bored a little upward, at the distance, horizontally, of five or six inches apart, and about twenty inches from the ground on the south or sunny side of the tree. The trough should be cut from white maple, pine, ash, or bass-wood. It is placed directly under the spouts, the joints of which are so constructed as completely to fill the hole in the tree, and prevent the loss of the sap at the edges, having a small gimlet or pitch-hole in the centre, through which the entire juice discharged from the tree nms, and is aU saved in the vessels below. To give the best run of sap the distance bored into the tree is only about half an inch. The method of boring is far better for the preservation of the tree than boxing, or cutting a hole with an axe, from the lower end of which the juice is directed by a spout to the tub or trough placed to receive it. The tub should be of ash, or of some other wood that wiU impart no vicious taste to the liquid or sugar. The sap ifi to be gathered every day fi'om the trees, and put in large tubs for the purpose of boiling dowja. This is accomplished by means of a steady hot fii-e. The surface of the kettle is cleansed from time to time by a skimmer. A small piece of fat pork is suspended at the proper point to prevent the liquid from boiling over. As the volume of the liquid is reduced, fresh additions of sap are made. "When boiled down to a sjTup, the liquor is set aside in an earthen- ware or metal vessel to cool and settle. The purest part is then dra^vn oft', or potn-ed into a kettle until the vessel is two-thirds full. By a brisk and continual fire the sj-rup is further reduced in volume to a degree of consistence best learned by a little experience. It- may then either be put into moulds, to become hard as it cools, or stirred until it is grained into sugar. The right time for removing it from the fire may be ascertained by cooling and grdining a small quantity. In the manufac- ture of maple sugar there are several difficultiea to be encountered. In reducing the sap, great care must bo taken not to burn the liqmd after( 407 ) MAB MAP it is made to the consistence of molasses, since, if this is done, it is impossible to convert it into sugar; a tough, black, sticky mass, of little value, being the result. Indeed, the utmost care and attention are required to produce a tirst-rato article; for though sugar may bo made in almost any way where the sap can be procured, yet, unless the utmost care is observed in the processes—in gathering and boiling the sap, clarifying the syrup, and in converting the syrup to sugar—a dirty, inferior article will be the result, instead of the beau- tiful and delicious sweet which the maple, properly treated, is sure to yield. Maple Sugar, To Make (another way). —The following process produces a most beau- tiful article. It is described by a gentleman who gained the first premium at the State Fair, at Rochester, in 1843, to the committee on maple sugar of the New York State Agricul- tural Society :—" In the first place, I make my buckets, tubs, and kettles, all perfectly clean. I boil the sap in a potash-kettle set in an arch in such a manner that the edge of the kettle is defended all round from the fire. I boil through the day, taking care not to have any- thing in the kettle that wiU give colour to the sap, and to keep it well skimmed. At lught I leave fire enough under the kettle to boil the sap nearly or quite to syrup by the next morning. I then take it out of the kettle, and strain it through a flannel cloth into a tub, if it is sweet enough; if not, I put it into a cauldron-kettle, which I have hung on a pole in such a manner that I can swing it on or off the fire at pleasure, or boil it till it is sweet enough, and then strain it into the tub, and let it stand till the next morning. I then take it, and the sjTup in the ketllo, and put it all together into the cauldron, and sugar it off. I use, to clarify, say, 100 pounds of sugar, the whites of five or six eggs, well beaten, about one quart of new milk, and a spoonful of saloratus, all well mixed with the syrup before it is scalding hot. I then make a moderate fire directly under the caiildron, until the scum is all raised, then skim it off clean, taking care not to let it l)oil so as to rise in the kettle before I have done skimming it. I then sugar it off, leaving it so damp that it will iniin a little. I let it remain in the kettl'o -uitil it is well granulated. I then put it into boxes, made smallest at the bottom, that will hold from fifty to seventy pounds, leaving a thin piece of board fitted in, two or three inches above the bottom, which is bored f uU of small holes to let the mola.sses drain through, Avhich I keep drawn off by a tap through the bottom. I put on the top of the sugar a clean damp cloth, and over that a board, well fitted in so as to exclude the air from the sugar. After it has done draining, or nearly so, dissolve it, and sugar it off again, going through with the same process in claiifying and draining as before." Maraschino Cairs Foot Jelly {sec Calf's Foot Jolly, Maraschino). Maraschino Ice Cream.—Mix one gill of maraschino with a pint and a half of cream and six ounces of sifted sugar. Whip the cream, then freeze. The above quantities are sufficient for one quart. Time, according to the mode of freezing. Maraschino Jelly.—Squeeze the juice from an orange, lemon, and peach. Strain and add it, with a table-spoonful of orange-flower water, to twelve ounces of fine sugar, on which the rind of part of a lemon has been rubbed oft". Dissolve the sugar with a wine-glassful of water, and boil until it is reduced to a rich syrup, when add it to a pint and a half of good strong caU's-foot stock, half a pint of maraschino, and the frothed whites and crushed shells of eight eggs. Simmer for a few minutes, then pass it through the usual jelly-bag until quite clear. While in a liquefied state, but cool, pick the stems from some fine rich-coloured strawberries, thiow them in, and moiild the jelly. The ker- nel of the peach, crushed, or a bitter almond, may be simmered with, the jelly. Time to simmer, ten to fifteen minutes. Sufficient for two moulds. Maraschino Syrup.—Strain the juice of a large sweet orange, and pour it, with a wine- glassful of water, over three ounces of sugar; boil it to a rather stiff", bright syrup, and skim, adding a quarter of an ounce of blanched bitter almonds and a small quantity of lemon-rind, or the quarter part of a lemon may be rubbed off on lumps of sugar. When clear and thick, strain, and serve with a wine-glassful of maraschino stirred into it. Marble Jelly.—Prepare for carrying out this recipe a jeUy that will be colourless, and oil weU a mould, which nearly fill with rough lumps of bright-coloured jelly of varied sizes. Arrange the limips like rock-work, and tastefully as to colour. Orange, strawberry, and apple-jelly do well for this. Run the colourless jelly, when cool, but in a liquefied state, into the mould, and when set, turn out. We give the recipe for Silver Jelly, which is the one we would recom- mend, as being without colour. Rub oft" the essence from tho rind of two lemons upon lumps of sugar. Beat the whites of six eggs to a froth, and crush the shells. Simmer over the fire an ounce and a half of tlxe best isinglass, dissolved in a pint of water, adding the sugar, eggs, &c., and half a pint of lemon-juice, strained. When the jelly has simmered for a few minutes, pour in a pint of maraschino, and simmer a few minutes longer, when it must be aUoAved to stand, without being disturbed, before it is passed through the jelly-bag. If not clear the first time, return it to the bag—it should in the end be like crj-stal. From ten to tweh'e ounces of sugtir wiU be required to sweeten this jelly. Marchioness Pudding. — Beat the whites of six eggs to a stiff' troth, and eight ounces of fresh butter to a cream. Add to the creamed butter eight ounces of finely-powdered loaf sugar and the same weight of grated cocoa-nut. Stir in t'le eggM, and fill a well- buttered tin mould. Bake in a quick oven. This pudding is to be eaten hot or cold. Or, lino the mould with a rich paste, made as foUows:—Rub into four ounces of fresh butter, turned to cream, a quarter of a pound of Uuft( 408 ) MAB MAB floiir. Mix an ounce of powdered sugar and the HJiuio woiH;ht of rico-flour, luld tlioiu to thci butter iiad Hour, and nioistuu to a paste with two woU-beaten egga. Work the mixture well, lino the tin mould, put the mixture in, aud bake. Time, without paate, twenty miuutoH; i with paste, one liour or more. Hufficient for j foiu" or five persons. j Marchpane (a German recipe).—Put into ' an enamelled saucepan half a pound of sweet and half an ouiieo of bitter almonds, bhinehed and pounded, with half a pound of sifted sugar. Stir well over a gentle heat until tlmy form a smooth paste, as stiff as is required for rolling } out. Place the paste on a marble slab, pre- viously covered with sifted sugar, Icnead it lightly into a ball, and let it stand till cool. This delicious paste, when rolled out thin, may be either cut into pretty and fanciful biscuits with tin cutters, or made into a large round sandwich, with api'icot or raspberry jam between two layers of the almond paste. Bake to a pale yeUow in a moderate oven. To prevent the almonds oiling, add, while pounding, a few drops of orange-water. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Marigold or Pot Marigold.—This is an annual plant, known in this country since 1573, but a native of France and Spain. It is often met with in cottage gardens, and in some parts of England the flowers are used in broths and soups. The marigold comes into flower in May or June, and continues flowering in plenti- ful succession all summer and autumn. A store for winter should be gathered when in full flower, spread out in the sun to dry, and then put carefully into paper bags. Marinade. — A marinade is a sort of flavoured pickle in wbich fish and meat are soaked for a while before being cooked. Some- times the liquor and seasoning are boiled togetber, and allowed to go cold before being used. The marinade can then be employed asjain and again, if it be boiled occasionally. When a small quantity only is required, the marinade is used raw. Cooked Marinade.— Fry two onions, two carrots, two bay-leaves, three shallots, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, and a clove of garlic in three ounces of butter. Pour on one quart of water, and one quart of vinegar, and boil for throe minutes. Add pepper and salt, and store for use. Raw Marinade (for small portions of food, such as fillets of fish, and slices of poultry).—Put a faggot with a little pepper and salt into a dish; pour on it a gill of vinegar and a table-spoonful of oil. If liked, onion may be used instead of or as well as herbs. Marinade for Pish, Economical.- An excellent and economical nuirinade that will serve for several occasions, if boiled, skimmed, and bottled closely after tise. Brown together in a stewpan, wiin a lump of butter, two middle-sized onions, two shallots, a small bit of garlic, and a carrot, all minced, find simmer for two or three hours over a slow fire with a jiint and a half of cheap claret or Bintish wine : add B bunch of Ewset herbs, parsley, two or three . cloves, a dozen Jamaica peppera (lioth pounded), salt, and a pinch of cayenne. Strain for uscj. Fish to be broiled or fried should l>e kid in a marinade of oil and nnm-MH sweet herbs. Sullicient for one pint. Marjoram.—Four ditterent species of mar. jorani anj cultivated—pot, sweet, winter, and commou. All—but chiefly the first three—are aromati(;s, of sweet flavour, and nmch employed as relishing herbs in soups, broths, stuHings, 4:c. The common marjoram is only used in cookery when tlie othcirs are not at liand. The propa- gation of sweet marioram or knotted marjoram is by means of seed; a little should be sfjwn every spring. Pot marioram is readily projjji- gated by cuttings, and is liai-dy enough to endure our winters. For winter sweet mar- joram, a sheltered border and a dry soil are required. It is a perennial pbint, and is pro- piigated by parting the roots in autumn. For winter use, both kinds of sweet marjoram should be slowly dried in the shade, and after- wards hung in a diy place. Marketing, Rules for.—Some sensible observations on this head ai-e given in AVebster and Parke's " Encyclopasdia of Domestic Eco- nomy." In marketing, say these writers, the first rule is to pui'chase chiefly from known and respectable tradespeople, who are likely to go themselves to tbe best markets, and who have to support the character of their shops. The second rule to be observed is that of not pur- chasing inferior articles imder the idea of being economical. A bargain is seldom a prize ; and this is especially the case in regard to butcher's- meat. 'The best meat and the prime joints are unquestionably the cheapest in the end, al- though the first cost may be the greatest. In coarse and inferior joints there is always too great a proportion of gristle, bone, and hard meat, to render them truly economical; these may serve as the basis of soups, gravies, or stews; but for roasting or boiling they are wasteful. The criterion of bad meat—by which must be imderstood meat that has been too long killed, or meat from animals killed in a state of disease—ought to be well known, by those who market, no less than the value and economy of the different parts and joints. Marlborough Pudding.—Warm two ounces of fresh butter, and wl^c n soft, without being thoroughly melted, stir until it resembles cream; add two ounces of powdered or sifted sugar, and two well-beaten eggs, and mix all together. When done, line a small pie-dish with puff paste, placing a border also roimd the edge; cover the bottom with a layer of apricot or strawberry jam; poiu- in the mixture, and bake from twenty to twenty-five minutes. Wo would suggest, that instead of the dish being lined with pufi' paste, a few thin slices of spongo- oako should be substituted, as the paste is likely to be sodden and indigestible. Probable cost, 7d. Sufficient for three persons. Marmalade is a half-liquid preserve, made by boiling the pnlj) of thickly-nnded fruits—oranges, i>ine-a])i)les, quinces, &:c., with portions of the rind Recipes for making the( 409 ) MAB following descriptions of mai-malade wiU be found under their respective headings:— AvPLB. Pbah. Ai'KicoT. Pine Apple. Bakhekry. Plum. Lemon. Quince. M-uiMALADE, Orange. Quince and Apple. Orange. Marmalade, Orange, Easy way of Making.—Select sound Seville oranges in the month of March or April, and look them well over to see that there are no bruises or blemishes. Put them whole into a large preserving-pan with plenty of water, and stew until soft, not for- getting to change the water two or three times. AVhen tender, pour off the water, peel off the rind, take away the pips, and weigh one poimd and a half of lump sugar to every pound of pulp, and add a small cupful of the water that the oranges were boiled in. Clear the syrup by boil- ing it for a few minutes before adding the pulp, cut the rind into thin strips, and when the pulp has simmered ten minutes, add the rind and give another boil for ten minutes. Time to boil the oranges, two hours, or until tender. Average cost, 7d. per pot. Marmalade, Orange, Grated.—Grate the outer rind of twenty oranges and one lemon, scoop out the inside, and carefully remove the seeds; bruise the pulp with about a quarter of a pint of water, through a sieve. Weigh the pulped oranges, and allow a pound of sugar to a pound of the fruit. Boil them together with the grated rind, until it is tender. As the oranges are grated, these gratings should be thrown into ■water to prevent their becoming a mass, and afterwards added with the rest, when ready for boiling. Time, half an hour to boil. Marmalade, Orange, Pudding.—Beat up two eggs, mix with them a quarter of a pint of new milk, and a quarter of a pound of good moist sugar; beat together for five minutes. Prepare some bread-crumbs by rubbing the stale crumb through a wire sieve, rejecting the crust. Of these crumbs take a quarter of a pound, with rather more than their weight of good suet. Mix with the eggs and milk, and work the mixture until smooth. Fill a buttered tin mould with the mixture and alternate layers of orange marmalade, and bake in a moderate oven. The excellence of this pudding wiU greatly depend on the mixing of the ingre- dients. Time, one hour and three-quarters to bake. To beat the mixture, twenty-five minutes. Probable cost. Is. 6d. One pound of marmalade is sufficient for this pudding. Marmalade, Orange, Pudding (another way).—Separate the yolks from the whites of half a dozen fresh eggs, beat the yolks in one basin, and half the whites in another. Mix together three or four ounces of clarified butter and a quartcr-])Ound pot of marmalade, vrith as much sugar as will sweeten, and then mix with the beaten eggs, stirring in the whites when the mixture has been well worked with a wooden spoon for five minutes. Bake in a buttered dish. Time, three-quarters of an hour to bake. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for four or five persons. {See also Golden Pudding.) Marmalade, Orange, Sauce.—Take two large table-spoonfuls of orange marmalade, put it into a saucepan with a wine-glassful of sherry, another of water, and six lumps of white sugar. Boil until the sugsu- is dissolved, and thicken with arrowroot. Sufficient for a large pudding. Time to make, about five minutCu. Probable cost, lOd. Marmalade, Orange, Scotch.—There are many ways oi making this marmalade; but most agree in the proportion of sugar to fruit. "We give the simplest and most economical way:—Boil the oranges until they are tender, and can be easily pierced with the head of a pin. When this is done, cut them open, remove the seeds, separate the pulp from the rind, and clear off the coarse filmy parts from the orange, and some of the white inner part of the rind. Shred the rind, the finer the better, and some of it may even be pounded and added with the shreds to the pulp. Clarify the sugar, allow- ing one pound and a half of sugar to each pound of fruit. Boil the sjTup for ten minutes. Throw in the pulp, juice, and rind, and let all boil together till the marmalade jellies. Sweet oranges are sometimes used for marmalade, and only a small portion of Seville or lemon pulp and rind is added to flavour. Time to boil the oranges, from three or four hours; marmalade, thirty to forty minutes. {See also Orange ^Marmalade) Marmalade, Orange, Transparent. —Squeeze out all the juice from a dozen oranges, or from twelve China and twelve Se^alle. Strain, steep the pulp after the juice has been expressed, in a little water, rinse it well in it, and pour the water through a muslin with the rest of the juice. Boil together with a pound and a half of sugar, clarified, to each pint of juice. Skim and boil for about twelve or fifteen minutes. The rind of a Seville orange, rubbed off on a few lumps of sugar, will improve the flavour of marmalade. Marrow.—Marrow is the fatty matter which fiUs up the hollow of the shaft of the bones. Its nourishing properties are the same as those of fats generally. It is much relished by epicures, but it ought to be observed that it is digested with difficulty, unless thinly-spread on toasted bread, with the addition of salt, and used in moderation. Marrow Bones. — Saw the marrow bones into neat pieces, cover the ends with a paste made of flour and water, tie them in a floured cloth, and boil for two hours. Remove the cloth and crust, put a napkin on a dish, set the bones upright, and serve with dr\.' toast. The marrow can be scooped out an'-, spread on the toast with a sprinkling of peppei and salt, before sending to table; but it is at likely to get cold, that we suggest the above method. Marrow bones are bought generally with silver-side of the round of beef, and weighed with the meat. Marrow Bones {see Beef Marrow Bones). Marrow Dumplings.—Pour over two stale French rolls as much boiling milk as will soak them well. Squeeze them dry, and beat them until tJiey are smooth. Beat two and a( 410 ) MAT MAB half ounces of marrow and huttor, mixed to- gether until like cream, and add those ingrediontH to two wull-whiakod ogga. When thoroughly mixed, make into lunall ballH, luxd drop thoHo into boiling soup, or if intended as an accom- paniment to roast moat, into boiling water. Marrow dumplings may be seasoned to adapt them to the dish for which they are intended. They are much used in Germany, but are not much known in England, except in the western counties, where they are principally composed of suet, flour, &c. Time, twenty minutes to boil. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for ten dumplings. Marrow Dumplings, for Soup.— Cut out the crimib of a ught roll, and soak it for a minute in cold nulk. Pour off the milk, and add two ounces of flour, half a pound of marrow, chopped, the yolks of six eggs, beaten to a froth, the crumb of a small roll toasted, and cut into small dice, a table- spoonful of chopped parsley, and pepper and salt to taste. Stir all these ingredients well together, form them into small dumplings, boil them in weak stock, and afterwards add them to the soup. Time to boil, an hour. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for eight persons. Marrow Patties.—Prepare as for Marrow Toast. Drop into boiling water, in which a little salt is dissolved, the marrow cut into small pieces, and boil for one minute. Drain it, and put it into a saucepan with a tea-spoonful of parsley, chopped, a tiny bit of shallot, half a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice, and pepper and salt to taste. Toss these ingredients lightly together until they are hot, fill the patty-caaefj, which should be already baked, and serve Time to prepare, five minutes. Marrow Pudding.—Arrange in layers, in a buttered mould, a quarter of a pound of bread, cut in thin shces, three ounces of marrow, chopped fine, an oimce of citron, cut small, and two ounces of pounded sweet almonds. Cover with a sauce made of haK a pint of milk or cream, three eggs, well beaten, and a sufficient quantity of sugar and nutmeg to flavour the whole. Boil for an hour, or bake for forty minutes, turn the pudding out of the mould, and serve with a little sifted sugar over it. The almonds may be left out, u \d raisins or currants substituted. Probable cost, with cream. Is. 8d. Sufficient for four persons. Marrow Pudding, Boiled or Baked. —Pour over half a pint of fine crumbs, prepared from stale rolls, three breakfast-cupfuls of boil- ing milk, flavoured with lemon-peel and grated nutmeg. Cover them to soak, then beat to- gether the bread, seven ounces of carefully- shred marrow, and four weU-whisked eggs. Sweeten to taste, and boil in a buttered mould, or bake in a dish lined with puff paste. Tune, two hours to boil; an hour to bake. Sufficient for five or six persons. Marrow Pudding, or Pat Pudding {nee Fat or Marrow Pudding). Marrow Sausages.—Beat up four eggs in a basin, leaving out one white. Add to them six ounces of captain's biscuit, previously soaked in boiling milk, and reduced to a pulp thiough a colander, two and a half ounces of almonds, blanched and shred small, eight ounces of mar- row, some powdered cinnamon and nutmeg, and salt and sugar to taste. Fill ordinary sausage-skins, and boil, h)ut leave space in the skins to allow of swelling. When boiled, lay the sausages on a sieve to cool, and when re- quired for use, brush them with dissolred butter, and heat them before the fire or in a fi-ying-pan. Marrow Toast—Take the marrow from the bone, cut it up, and parboil in salt and water for one minute. Drain, season with pepper and salt, and add a little lemon-juice and chopped parsley. Toss lightly together; spread the mixture on squares of hot crisp toast, and serve immediately. Marshmallow. — This is a wholesome plant, and very palatable when boiled, and afterwards fried with onions and butter. In seasons of scarcity, the inhabitants of some of the eastern counties often have recourse to it as a principal article of food. Marshmallow Water.—A decoction of marshmallow is efficacious in the cure of severe coughs, catarrhs, &c. Cut the roots into thin shces, and poar over them boiling water (about a pint to an ounce of the root), cleansing and peeling off the outer skin before infusion. The water may be flavoured with the squeezed juice and grated rind of an orange, and sweetened with honey or brown sugar-candy. Marsh- mallow leaves are eaten dressed like lettuce, aa a salad. Time, two hours to infuse. Marsh-Marigold.—When gathered be- fore they expand, the flowers of the marsh- marigold, if preserved in vinegar, with the addition of salt, may be used aa a substitute for capers. This plant is easily propagated by parting the roots in autumn, or by sowing the seeds about the latter end of summer; it requires a hvmMd soU, and a somewhat shady situation. Maryland Dough Nuts.—Break an egg into a bowl. Beat it well, and mix with it half a pint of melted butter, haK a pint of sugar, half a pint of sour milk, a tea-spoonful of cinnamon, half a tea-spoonful of powdered cloves, and nine ounces of dried flour. ]\Iix thoroughly, stir in a tea-spoonful of soda dissolved in a tea-spoonful of boiling water, and work in another nine ounces of flour. KoU the paste to the thickness of half an inch; cut it into rounds, and fry these in plenty of boiling fat. Mary's Cup Pudding {^ce Little Mary's Cup Pudding). Mary's Pudding Aunt Mary's Pudding). Mary's Sauce Queen Mary's Sauce for Koast Meat). Mat^.—The Pariiguay tea-plant or mate is a native of the New World, and in some parts of South America is used as extensively tor(411 ) MAT MAY making a hot infusion as tea and coffee are with U8. It is a shrub which attains to about the size of an orange-treo, and grows wild in the forests of Paraguay and Brazil. The work of collecting and preparing the leaves of this plant for use is performed by the native Indians; it is said that upwards of five million pounds of the mate-leaves are annually gathered in Paraguay alone. The preparation of this tea is by no means so carefully gone about as that of Chinese tea. At certain seasons of the j-ear the natives penetrate the forest, and having selected a tree, cut off with a hatchet its prin- cipal branches. When a sufficient number of branches are cut down, they are placed on hurdles. A wood fire is then kindled, and when the flames have ceased to ascend, the hurdles are placed upon it. The branches are allowed to remain on the hurdles till they are dried. They are then removed from the fire, and a clean hard floor being made on some spot of ground, they are strewn upon it and beaten weU with sticks. In this way the dried leaves and smaller branches are reduced to a coarse kind of powder, which is usually placed in bullock'8-hides. These, being sewed up, the tea is ready for expoi-tation. During the packing, however, some little selection is made, and three sorts of mate are known in the market. Mate, or Paraguay Tea, Prepara- tion of.—" The method of preparing this tea is very simple; it is, nevertheless, peculiar. A cup, which is called a mate, is employed, which frequently consists of a gourd, but is sometimes made of silver or other material. Into this cup is introduced a long tube, called a bombiUa, at the end of which is a bowl, pierced with holes, or a roimd piece of basket-work, the object of which is to allow the fluid to be sucked up without the solid particles passing into the mouth. A small quantity of the yerva is then placed in the cup, covering the bowl of the tube, and boiling water is poured upon it. A little sugar is frequently added, and when cold enough, the liquid is sucked up through the tube. The beverage thus formed has a slightly aromatic smell, but very much less than either tea or coffee, and is slightly bitter to the taste." Matelote Sauce for Pike {sec Pike, Matelote Sauce for). Matelote Sauce, Ox Tail with {see Ox Tail with Matelote Sauce). Matrimony Sauce (for dumplings).—Put a bit of butter into cold water in a saucepan; dust in a little flour, stirring one way till they are completely mixed; then add some brown sugar and a table-spoonful or so of vinegar. Continue stirring till the sauce boils; pour into a basin, and serve. May Nectar.—This delicately-flavoured and refreshing beverage is rarely drunk in England, partly because it is so little known, and also because the necessary herbs and in- gredients are not all easily obtained. They should be gathered just before the May nectar is to be made. Pluck six leaves of each of the following: — Tarragon, garden geranium, milfoil, and pimpernel; half that quantity of black-currant, balm, mint, basil lungwort, and balsam leaves. Slice in a lemon; add also a few sprigs of lavender, half a pound of crushed white sugar, twenty leaves of balm, fifteen of peppermint, and two of the wild sweet-scented woodruff with the blossom. After having put these into a punch-bowl, pour over the whole four bottles of German wine. Flowers may be thrown on the top, but not until the last moment. The nectar must be allowed to steep for an hour or two before being drunk. The probable cost depends greatly on the quantity of wine used. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. May Wine.—Throw into a punch-bowl a bottle of hock, slice into that a lemon, an orange, or add a few strawberries, a glass of sherry, and sufficient crushed white sugar to sweeten. Now put in twelve little sprays of leaves of the sweet woodruff, and if in bloom some of the blossoms. Let them steep an hour, and serve out with a ladle. Sweet-scented flowers are often thrown in, and must float on the top, and leaves of sweet hei'bs, and of other fragrant plants, such as the lemon plant and lavender, may be added. May wine may be iced. Mayonnaise (a la Gelee).—The basis for this gelee should be a firm savourj^ jelly. Aspic jelly is well smted for the purpose, and it may be adapted to any particular dish by dissolving and then adding the flavouring required. Take as much of the jeUy as may be wanted, dissolve it in an enamelled saucepan, and whisk it to a white froth with double its quantity of good oil, and for a quarter pint of the jelly, when in a dissolved state, about half a dozen spoonfuls o^ tarragon vinegar, and of salt, pepper, and sugar, a tea-spoonful mixed, but half the quantity should be salt. Whisk all well, taking care to pour in the oil and vinegar, which should be added last, slowly and by degrees. When smooth and white like cream the mayonnaise is ready. It should be whisked over ice. Mayonnaise Sauce.—A mixture of egg- yolks, oil, vinegar, or lemon-juice. The prin- cipal point to be attended to in preparing this sauce is the mode of mixing, which demands time, patience, and nicety. Break the yolk of a fresh egg into a bowl with a salt-spoonful of pepper and salt mixed. Beat it till thick, then add from time to time, during the mixing, two or three drops of the best Lucca oil until about four ounces have been used, and the mixture is thick and yeUow. When eight tea- spoonfuls of oil have been used, stir in one tea- spoonful of white wine vinegar, and continue adding oil and vinegar in these proportions until all the oil is used. The yolk of one egg would be sufficient for a pint of oil and vinegar in proportion. The addition of a few drops of lemon-juice makes mayonnaise look creamy; tarragon vinegar assists the flavour. Mayonnaise will keep a long time if bottled closely and kept in a cool place. Mayonnaise Sauce (another way).—/See Lobster Salad. Mayonnaise Sauce (another way).— Mix smoothly together the yolks of two hard-( 412 ) boiled o'^'ys, and the yolk of a ruw one, with a Bult-spounful of siilt, ono of poi)por, and ono of mustard. Theji add, a fow drops at a tinui, a quiirter of a pint of best salad-oil, and lialf lliat quantity of vijitfgar, stirring and rubbing woU all tho tinio, to provont tho oil from settling on the top. When tlieso ingredients urn mixed to a smooth batter, add two table-spoonfuls of good gravy or jolly, ono of rieh (a-eain, tho juice of half a lemon, and one sliuUot, pounded. Tho secret of making this sauce is to mix it thoroughly, and add the different ingredients very gradually. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient to cover a moderate-sized dish of cold meat, fish, &c. Mead, Simple. — A simple, delicious beverage, seldom made except by the cottager who keeps bees. After disposing of the bulk of tho honey-produce, the goodwife economises what remains for the use of the family, thus :— Dissolve a pound, or more, of honey in thi-ee quarts of water. Boil, skim, and reduce the liquid to half a gallon. Fill the vessel in which it is placed, cover, and let the mead be imdisturbed for two or three days, when it is ready for use. The combs, after being drained, are washed in warm water, that nothing shall be lost, and the liquid is strained from the sediment, to be used to enrich the mead or to make the family beer, with the addition of a little yeast. It is kept warm by the fire for a few days to ferment, then bottled. Mead, To Prepare (another way).—The following is one of the most approved methods of brewing mead:—Let the whites of six eggs be well incorporated with twelve gallons of •water, to which add twenty poimds of honey. Boil these ingredients for an hour, then put into the liquor a little ginger, clove, cinnamon, and mace, together with a small sprig of rose- mary. As soon as the liquor is cool, add a spoonful of yeast, and pour the mead into a vessel, which should be filled up whUe it works. When the fermentation ceases, close the cask, and deposit it for six or eight months in a vault or cellar of an equal temperature, and in which the liquor will not be liable to be affected by the changes of the weather. At the end of that time it may be bottled, and will then be fit for use. A more simple, and to some palates more agree- able, method, is to mix the honey in the propor- tion of one poimd to a quart of water, which is to be boiled, scummed, and fermented in the usual manner, without the addition of any aromatic substances. It ought to be preserved in a similar manner, and bottled at the expira- i ion of the same time. Mead Wine.—To ten gallons of water put ten pounds of honey and a quarter of a pound of good hops; boil for an hour, and when cooled to the warmth c f new milk, ferment with yeast spread on a toast. Let it stand in the tub two days; then put it into tho CJisk. The wine will be fit for bottling in twelve months. Honey of a year old is better for this purpose than new. Meagre Soup (.Sonpo Maigre).—Before beginning, wash thoroughly all your green vegetables, peel your roots, and throw them into cold water. The proportions of each must , depend very much ujwn what you can get. Tlu! soup, when finishcid, should be of tho thickness of ordinary i)(;a-80up. Take five or six handfuls of couniion soxrel, two large let- tuces from which tho withered leaves only have been removed, a small Imnch of chervil, and two or three s])rigs of parsley. ,Shr(;d all these very fine. Slice and chop onions, (;arrot8, and leeks very fine. Fry the vegetables till lightly browned in butter, put them into a saucepan with boiling water, and add a bay-h^f, a sprig of thyme, and a good lump of butter. iSeason with pepper and salt. Stir from time to time, to prevent any of the ingredients from sticking to the bottom. When they are thoroughly cooked, press the vegetables through a sieve. If necessary, add more water to the pulp, and boil the soup again before serving. The soup may be further thickened either with bread or boiled potatoes—steeped in a little of the liquor, and then broken up and mixed with the soup. Meal Fritters, Indian Indian Meal). Meal Pudding (American).—A breakfast- cupful of Indian corn-meal and a tea-spoon- ful of salt, mixed with boiling mUk, makes a pudding much liked by the Americans; and, when enriched with eggs, of which there should be four to this quantity of meal, it cannot fail to please almost any palate. The eggs must not be added imtil the mixture has cooled. Boil in a buttered mould, and serve with syrup and butter, or with any sweet sauce. Time, two hours and a half in a mould. A quart of milk is sufficient for the above ingredients. Meal Puddings, in Skins.—See that the skins are well washed. Let them soak for twelve hours in salt and water, then fill them, as for ox-blood puddings, allowing room for swelling. Make a stufiing of two pounds of good sifted oatmeal, one pound and a half of finely- shred suet, a large onion, or two middle-sized ones minced, pepper, salt, and a little allspice. Boil, but do not put them into quite boil- ing water. Time, about thirty-five minutes. Probable cost, Is. 9d. Sufficient for twenty- four skins. Meal " Sterz" (a German recipe).—Into a quart and a half of boiling water throw half a pound of oatmeal, or any other meal. Boil quickly for eight minutes, keeping the lid of the saucepan closely down. Turn the " sterz " very carefully without breaking, boil another eight minutes, then throw off all the water except about a quarter of a pint. Break up the "sterz" lightly with a fork, add two large table-spoonfuls of hot butter, and a little salt, and let the dish remain near the fire for fiftt'en minutes, still closely covered. Just before serving, pour more warm butter over the "sterz." Time, thirty-five minutes. Pro- bable cost, 6d. Sufficient for throe or four persons. Meat and Bread Pudding (wc Bread and Meat Pudding, Portable). Moat and Vegetables, An Extract of {lee Mirepoix).MEA ( 413 ) MEA Meat and Vegetable Stock.—Having put the necessarj' qiumtity of meat, bones, and trimminga, vnth a proper proportion of water, into the stewpan, chop the vegetables, allowing to each quart of water a lettuce, a head of celery, two small onions, each stuck with a clove, a leek, a turnip, a carrot, a small bunch of savoury herbs, some parsley, and, unless the soup is to be white, a dessert-spoonful of brown sugar, and hidf an ounce of salt. Stew from five to six hours; pulp the vegetables, and strain through a sieve for use. A pint of water is enough for a pound of meat. Meat, Australian {see Australian Meat). Meat Balls, Minced, Fried—Take some roast mutton, some chestnuts, and neck of veal boiled in water with salt and vinegar. Cut them up separately into small pieces, mix them with seasoning herbs, also cut as fine as pos- sible. Add enough salt and pepper to season the materials, and make them into a mass with the yolks of three eggs. Roll this into balls, fry in butter until done, and then serve with tomato sauce. Meat Cake, Moulded. — Pounded or .potted meat does best for this cake. Cut slices of cold roast veal, without any of the brown part, and lean ham ; pound them to a paste in a mortar. Boil eight or ten eggs hard, and mince parsley enough to fiU the haQ of a quarter-pint cup, season \vith a little pounded mace and pepper. Lay the egg-yolks in halves, at the bottom of a buttered moiild, and strew some of the parsley over them. Next, make a layer of the pounded meat, which should be moistened with a little good stock or gravy; arrange the egg-yolks as before, and fill up with seasoning and meat. Put bits of butter over the top, and bake in a gentle oven. The cake should not be removed from the mould until cold. Time, about three-quarters of an hour to bake. Suf- ficient, two pounds of meat for four persons. Meat, Cold.—When newly-cooked meat is brought from table, put it on a dry dish ; if the gravy is left about it the meat becomes sour. To enjoy cold meat it should be cooked the day before, and not cut, as the juices thus remain, and add a richness to the meat. Every particle of cold meat that is left from table .should be used. The fat portions can be melted down to make dripping for kitchen use and frying purposes. The skin, gristle, and bone should be gently stewed in water to make stock for soup or gravy. The lean parts may be served again. Meat, Cooking of.—" In whate\ •er man- ner meat is cooked," observes Mr. Donovan, " there is a considerable diminution of sub- stance, the loss consisting chiefly of water, juices, soluble matter, and fat. In an economical point of view, a comparison of the loss incurred in the two most usually employed processes— roasting and boiling—is interesting-, yet it has not occi'.pied the attention of the public as much as the importance of the subject seems to de^iand. Professor Wallace, of Edinburgh, has given us the results of some experiments made to dctfrmino the; loss which mea,t under- goes in '•ooking. It ia to bo ro'rn-ttfd that it is not more in detail, and that the weight of the bone in each joint was not ascertained ; but stiL it is of great value. The results, reduced to 100 pounds of meat, are as foUows:— lbs. 100 lbs. of beef lost in boiling . . 26i 100 lbs. of beef lost in roasting. . 32 100 lbs. of beef lost in baking . . 30 100 lbs. of legs of mutton, averaging about 94 lbs. each, lost in boiling 21|- 100 lbs. of shoulders of mutton, aver- aging 10 lbs. each, lost in roasting 31J 100 lbs. of loins of mutton, averaging 8 lbs. 12 oz. each, lost in roasting 36^ 100 lbs. of necks of mutton, averaging 10 lbs. each, lost in roasting . 23J Thus the loss in boiling beef or ro atton was less than in roasting. And it appearh, that meat loses by the cooking about one-fifth to one- third. A few years since, I undertook the super- intendence of some experiments of the same tendency. These trials were made on several parts of the different animals, with as much attention to accuracy as the nature of the sub- ject permitted. They were made on different qualities of the same kind of meat, at various seasons, both in England and Ireland. Such experiments are exceedingly troublesome, and occasion no small inconvenience; it is, there- fore, the less surprising that the subject has been so little investigated; and the following results, in the absence of any others so par- ticularly detailed, wiU perhaps prove interest- ing. Allowance must be made for the nature of such processes. The degree of fatness was it all cases brought to a standard by cutting off all excess, and leaving the meat in a proper state for the housekeeper's use. The meat was in all cases cooked as nearly as possible to the same degree, and the weights were determined with exactness; avoirdupois weight throughout is intended. The bones were entirely stripped of their meat previous to their being weighed." A piece of beef roasted formed the first expeiiment. It consisted of four of the largest ribs, and was not remarkably fat; its weight was 11 lbs. 1 oz. During the process of roasting it lost 2 lbs. 6 oz., of which 10 oz. were fat, and 28 oz. were water dissipated by evaporation. When the meat was dissected off with the utmost care, the bones weighed 16 oz. Hence the weight of meat, properly roasted and fit for the table, was but 7 lbs. 11 oz., out of 11 lbs. 1 oz. origi- nally submitted to experiment. Other parts were submitted to similar tests, and we learn oi mutton:—A leg of mutton, wcigL'ng 9^ Ibs. when boiled gave 1 lb. of bone, shank included, it lost in the boiling 1 lb. 2 oz.; the meat weighed 7 lbs. 2 oz. A similar leg, weighing 9 lbs. 6 oz., afforded 15 oz. of bone, and lost 12 oz. in the boiling; the meat weighed 7 lbs. 11 oz. A leg of smaU Scotch mutton, weigh- ing 6 lbs., afforded 10^ oz. of bone, lost b^oz. in the boiling, and the meat weighed 6 lbs. The following experiments are miscellaneous:— A fore-quarter of lamb, weighing 9 lbs., af- forded, when roasted, 20 oz. of bone, and lost 1| lbs. in the roasting ; the meat weighed 6 lbs. A hand of salt pork, weighing 4 lbs. 5 oz., lost in boiling 11 oz.; the bone weighed 9 oz.; the meat was 8 lbs. 1 oz. A knuckle of veal, weighingMEA MEA ( 414 ) 6 IhH. when duly boilod lost i lb. ItB hone, jR^ectly clcarod of meat, weighed 2 lbs. 6 oz.; the meat woighod 3 lbs. 2 oz. A goose, pro- jjcrly trussed, weighed 4i lbs. ; in this state it was roasted, and when sufficiently done was found to have lost 18 oz. The skeleton weighed 12 oz.; the meat weighed 3 lbs. A turkey, with its liver and gizzard, weighing 4 lbs. 14 oz., was boiled ; it lost 12 oz.; the skeleton weighed 13i oz. ; the moat 3 lbs. ii oz. A young duck, weighing 20 oz., lost oz. in roasting; its bones weighed 2^g oz.; the meat was 12^oz. A fowl, with its liver and gizzard, weighing lbs., was roasted; it lost 3 oz.; the skeleton weighed 4i oz., and the flesh IG^oz. A fine mackerel which, when trimmed and ready for boiling, weighed 23|^ oz. (including the weight of the roe, 23^ oz.) It lost 1| oz. in the boiling; the skeleton, carefully collected, along with gills, fins, and tail, weighed 4^ oz. Meat Croquettes.—Take any kind of cooked meat at hand. The remains of fowl, a few slices of ham, with an appropriate season- ing of chopped mushrooms, grated nutmeg, pepper, &c.; or cold roast beef, with a small bunch of mixed savoury herbs, some minced shallot, an anchovy, pepper, and salt. Put the meat into a stewpan. If fowl, allow to every half pound of meat two otmces of ham, which may be chopped, or cut in small slices. Moisten with three table-spoonfuls of white sauce, and stew for a few minutes, when stir in the yolks of three eggs, and let it stand until the eggs are set. Turn the meat out on a large dish, spread it over evenly, and when quite cold divide it into equal portions, and, with the help of fine bread-crumbs, roll into balls or make them taper, according to fancy; smear well with egg, and cover thickly with more bread-crumbs. Fry at once in boiling lard, drain, and serve on a napkin, with a garnish of parsley. For beef croquettes, add oysters, cut into four, after the eggs have set, and use some of their liquor for the sauce. If white sauce is not at hand, melt an ounce of butter, mix in a spoonful of flour, add a gill of stock, and stir in a pound of mince. Meat. Essences and Extracts of.— As preparations of meat called essences or extracts are'now largely introduced, and are attracting considerable public attention, we should be wrong in omitting to mention them here. Their great merit is their convenience, and the almost instantaneous promptness with which by their means a basin of soup can be served. The essence must be selected and prepared with some care and judgment. If the dose is too large, the broth becomes unpalatable. This subject has recently received much attention from members of the medical profession and others, and various opinions have been expressed, but we nevertheless think our readers, like our- selves, will prefer relying on an able medical opinion rather than on their own unsupported judgment. These essences are prepared from fresh meat in such a manner that the fibre ind fat are left behind, only the ozmazome (or flavouring property), certain salts, and a very small quantity of albumen, remain. The quality of this food is determined by the first- mentioned substance, and with a tea-spoonful of the essence about a pint of broth may be made, which, although thin to thfi palate, is au full of the flavour of meat as when beef-tea is prepared at home. The salts are not perceptible to the senses, but they consist, in part, of phos- phJitos, and are very valuable. The albumen is necessarily in very small quantity, frc n the small amount of the extract of meat which is used. Liebig's essence of meat, however, is a valuable addition to a traveller's stores, since it occupies a very small space, and, with hot water, ho may at any time prepare a basin of soup in two minutes, which would be more useful to him than any other fluid. It is particularly suited to those who abstain from intoxicating diinks. A considerable amount of fibre, with tibrine, gelatine, fat, and some albumen, ia left behind. That fibre is digestible is proved by the fact, that in fresh meat it is nearly all digested; that it is highly nutritious is proved by its chemical composition. Hence, where health exists, it is best not to throw away thia material. That it will not alotie support life is true; the salts necessary to life, and fat highly important to life, are absent from it; but that does not in the least prove that it is not of great value as part of a dietarj'. When one tea- spoonful of the essence has been dissolved in about a pint of hot water, and seasoned with pepper and salt, it forms an agreeable and stimulating beverage, but should not be re- garded as food for every-day use. In this respect it must be ranked with tea and coffee. It may be advantageously thickened by adding a little sago; and vermicelli, macaroni, and various Italian pastes, are agreeable and proper additions. Its proper place is that of a luxury, and in some states of disease it is also a valuable food; but in health, the quantity of nutriment is too small to be computed, and its action upon nutrition is rather indirect, by stimulating the vital actions, than direct, by supplying food. For ordinary use, it is better for the housewife to make beef-tea from shins of beef, so as to ob- tain much gelatine, or from gravy-beef, and to serve up the solid part as food at the same meal. Our continental neighbours eat their bouilli and potage at the same meal; and so should we. Meat Gravy for Sauces.—This pre- paration may be used in the composition of various sauces. It is prepared by straining the gravy produced by the cooking of meat, and boiling it down at a gentle heat to the consistence of sauce. Sometimes it is thickened, without being boiled down, by the addition of various materials, such as a roux of flour and butter, the yolks of hard-boiled eggs, tomato marmalade, or by chestnuts roasted and crushed to powder. Meat Gravy for Sauces and Similar Purposes.--Place in a stewpan slices of bacon, veal, and some minced ham. The weight of meat put in will of course depend upon the quantity of juice required. The rule is usually to employ one pound and a half of meat for each pint of gravy. Then place in the stewpan some onions, carrots, parsnips, celery, par.sley, thyme, chives, cloves, nutmeg, and pepper. Place the pan over a gentle fire until all the juice contained in the meat has escaped,( 4J'5 ) M£A then increase the heat until the juice has become as thick as it can be made without risk of burning it. liemove the meat, and put as many lumps of butter tho siiso of an egg us there were pounds of moat employed. Thicken with a proper quantity of tioui-, and form a roux. When this is done, put the meat back into the stewpan, pour in some stock broth, simmer for two houi-s, skim the liquid, and strain it. Meat Glaze.—Full particulars regarding Meat Glaze are given in the article Glaze. Meat Glaze, in a hurry.—Glaze is an extract of meat, which, when condensed by boiling, becomes the thick varnish so useful to the cook for giving an inviting appearance to a hot or cold joint, poultry, or vegetables. Boil down a strong stock or gravy until it seems thickish as it drops from the spoon with which it is being stirred, and becomes a firm jelly when cold. Veal being more gelatinous than other meat, produces the best glaze. To make glaze in a hurry, if no stock be at hand, slice a quarter of a pound of veal as thinly as possible, and fry it over a slow fire in a small pan with a bit of butter; draw the stewpan from the fire, and stir in a very small cup of water; add pepper and salt, and again stir it until it has boiled thick; then strain it into a pot and use, laying it on with a brush. When more than one coat is required, dry before puttii^g on another. Meat Jelly for Pies {see Pies, Meat Jelly for). Meat, Liebig's Extract of («eeLiebig's Extract of Meat). Meat Patties.—Prepare the meat in the usual way, mince neatly and fill patty- pans lined with puff paste. Or, make a plain puff paste, roll thin, and form the patties like apple-puffs with the mince enveloped in the paste. Pinch the edges closely together, and fry a nice brown. Time, ten minutes to fry. Meat Pie (a la Don Pedro).—This is a kind of ragout put into a tin made expressly for the dish. Take some mutton-chops, either from the loin or neck, trim them neatly and toss them, with some chopped parsley, butter, pepper, salt, &c., in a stewpan over a slow fire. Place the chops, with some good brown gravy, into the tin baking-dish—"the Don Pedro tin"—and add slices of raw ham. Cover with the lid, but first fill in vnth. mashed potatoes to the brim; bake for two hours in a slow oven, when the tin cover may be taken off, and the chops will be found tender and succulent. Probable cost of chops, Is. per pound. Meat Pies, Forcemeat for {see Force- meat for Jloat Pies). Meat Pies, Pastry for {see Pastry, French, for Meat Pies, &c.). Meat Porcupine.—Press into a plain oval mould the following:—A half pound of pork, and one pound of rump-steak (chopped finely), one clove of garlic (shred), a tea-spoonful of salt, pepper, and nutmeg—the whole moistened and well beaten up with two eggs. Tiim the mixture out of the mould, and stick pieces of fat bacon all over it, to resemble a porcupine. Stew it for an hour- in hot butter, imtil it is brown all over. Probable C08t> 3s. 6d, MEAT PORCUPINE. Sufficient as a supper dish for four or five persons. Meat Preserving. — Meat taints soon, and few know how to render it, when tainted, fit for use. Some rub the joint over with pyro- ligneous acid, which effectually prevents it tvuming bad, but imparts a very disagreeable flavour. To preserve meat, thoroughly examine it when it comes from the butcher's, care- fully remove flyblows, if there be any, wipe with a perfectly dry cloth all the flaps and crevices, so as to leave no damp, which soon imparts a disagreeable taint to meat, cut out all the kernels and perceptible veins, wrap a piece of muslin lightly round the joint, sew it up, and hang it, if possible, in a current of air in a cool place. Meat, Quality of.—This is influenced by several circumstances, each of which produces a peculiar difference in the flesh of the same species of animal. The principal circumstances alluded to are the breed, the sex, the age, the nature of the pasturage or food on which the animal has been fed, its state of health, the treatment immediately previous to its being slaughtered, and the mode in which it has been deprived of life and in which the carcass is dressed. Meat Rissoles, English. — Prepare meat—beef, mutton, veal, poultry, or game—as before directed for Meat Croquettes. The rissoles may be made up in the form of cones —egged, bread-crumbed, fried without paste, and served with a gravj'. If preferred with paste, cut out double the number of rounds that are required of rissoles; on one round place the mince, egg the edge, and cover with a corresponding round. Fry, first brushing them with egg, of a nice brown; use butter, and drain the rissoles before serving. Send to table on a napkin, garnished with parsley. Time, five or six minutes to fry. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of meat. Meat Rissoles, German.— Fry two or three ounces of bacon cut into small squares, and then add the following ingredients :—To a well-beaten egg, stir a quarter of a pound of finely-minced cold meat, a quarter of a pound of soaked bread (squeezed dry), a table-spoonful of chopped onion, another of parsley, and pepper and salt to taste. When these ingre- dients are fried sufficiently, turn them out into a basin until nearly cold; then add a coupleMEA ( 418 ) MEG of eggs, beat all well together, form the mix- tui'o into balls abuut the size of au egg, aud fry for six luiuutos, or drop them into boiliiig soup, stock, or water; pour rich gravy over thoiu before sorving. Time to make, half an hour. Sufficient for six balls. Probable cost, 8d., exclusive of cold moat. Meat Strudels.—Make a paste as fol- lows :—Bout well four eggs, keeping out the whites of two; add to tho eggs an ounce of dissolved butter, and dredge in as much flour as will make a dough firm to the touch and quite smooth. Divide the dough into pieces of equal weight, about the size of an egg; roll each piece into a ball, and then with the rolling-pin flatten it to the desired size and thinness. Mince any kind of meat very fine; season and flavour according to taste, and moisten with a gravy thickened, or some thick cream. EoU the strudels up, when, if tho paste has been rolled to an oval shape, they will be large in the middle and tapering at both ends. Butter the bottom of a wide-bottomed braising-pan; lay in the strudels an inch or more apart; put hot coals on the top of the lid, and bake over a slow fire. When the strudels are risen and beginning to colour, brush them over with hot nulk, and finish the baking; they should be a light brown. The above recipe will be applicable to any kind of preserve, sweet rice, or any savoury mince of fish, lobster, shrimps, &c. Meat Washing.—If meat is not perfectly sweet, it should be washed before being dressed. In frosty weather, if it has become congealed, it should be thawed by being soaked in cold water for a time. In these cases, particular care should be taken to wipe the meat perfectly dry before cooking it. Mecca Loaves.—Put a half pint of milk, or of milk and water, into an enamelled stew- pan, with a quarter of a pound of good fresh butter. When the mUk boils, and the butter is dissolved, draw the pan from the fire, and stir in, gi-adually, from four to five ounces of fine flour and three or four eggs, one by one. Flavour with orange essence, and add, just before baking, a small cupful of cream, weU frothed, which should be stirred gently with the rest. Drop this paste from a table-spoon on to a baking-sheet, at equal distances; do this slowly, to give the loaves the proper elon- gated form. Cover with beaten egg, and strew roughly-powdered lump sugar, like pearl-barley, and dredge some more fine dust of sugar over them. Let the loaves be quite two inches apart. Bake to a good golden yellow, in a moderate oven. When cold, and abont to be served, arrange the loaves in a circle, and fill the hollow with whipped cream, flavoui-ed with any kind of liqueur. Time, from ten to twelve minutes. Probable cost, Is. 4d. Mecklenburg Liver Sausages. — Take the liver from a pig while it is quite fresh; mince it, and then pass it through a coarse sieve, but first ascertain its weight. To a pound of the liver, mix a half pound of pork (boiled tender), that has been cut from any part of the pig, although slices from the brejtst are usually taken. Take the tongue, Iddneys, I and some of the inside fat; chop this meat, but do not mince it, and mix all with the raw liver. Season with salt, pepper, powdered cloves or allspice, and a few Bage-leaves re- duced to powder. Tho top-fat, from the boUing of tho meat, and the liquor should both be used. Put the fat, with the meat, into the skins when tilling, and boil the sausages in the hquor (salted), which must be made quite hot before they are put in. Plunge them, when cooked, into cold water; then hang them to dry. To be smoked, or not. The skins must be only three- parts filled. Time to boil, half an hour. Mecklenburg Liver Sausages (another way).—See Liver Sausages, Mecklen- burg, Smoked. Mecklenburg Sausages.—Prepare the following ingredients, with which fiU the sau- sage-skins, and boil half an hour :—Chop finely equal proportions of fat and lean pork, and to every pound add a small tea-spoonful of salt, pepper, grated lemon-peel, and half that quan- tity of groimd aUspice. If these ingredients appear too dry, they may be moistened with a little wine or brandy. When made with equal weight of lean beef and fat pork, then pressed one whole day and smoked, these sausages will keep, without being cooked, for many weeks; they are usually sliced, and eaten raw. Pro- bable cost, lOd. per pound. Medlar Jelly.—Get quite ripe medlars, without bruise; let them simmer gently, with water about half an inch over the tops. \\Tien fit to pulp, strain the fruit through a jelly-bag; if not clear the first time, repeat the straining; add to every pint of juice, a pound of good loaf sugar, boil fast, skimming constantly. When cooled a little, pour the jelly into glasses or moulds, to be turned out for dessert. The jeUy should be quickly boiled until it will set. Medley Pie, Leicestershire {see Leicestershire Medley Pie). Meg MerUees Soup.—A soup, or stew, for the sportsman or country gentleman when game is abundant. In seasons of scarcity, meat helps to form the basis or stock ; but for the gourmet, boil down a rather old hare, with the blood, the trimmings, and inferior parts of venison, and any game-bones; but all should be fresh. Boil in three quarts of water, with a bunch of savoury herbs, parsley, two large turnips, two caiTots, two middle-sized onions, each stuck with a clove, a dessert-spoon- ful of whole pepper, .and one of aUspice. ^V^len boiled to a pulp, strain, and add to the stock as great a variety of game as can be procured—a young hare, or part of one (neatly jointed), black cock, partridge, pheasant, grouse, &c.—all cut, and well spiced, to be fried slightly, or not, according to taste, before being put into the strained stock. The blood of the hare must not be omitted. IMix a little broth, and boil with a good thickening of rice-flour, to be after- wards stirred into the rest of the stock. More seasoning will be required of allspice, pepper, and salt. AVhen boiling, thoow in a dozen but- ton-onions, two sticks of celery (cut into quarter- inch lengths), and a small white cabbage (quartered). Simmer gently, until the game is( 417 ) MEL MEL done, but not overdone. Any additional flavour- ing may be given to the stew, and forcemeat- balls, made of the liver of the hare, may be introduced; but this is not frequently done. Time, three hom-s to boil stock. Melon.—This fruit is generally used in England only for dessert, but on the Continent, ■where it grows more abundantly, it is served with the bouilli, and is even frequently eaten before the first course,' as it is supposed to sharpen the appetite. In this case, pepper and salt are the ordy accompaniments. When for dessert, it should be sent to table in a dish, tastefully adorned with flowers and smaller fruit, so as to afford a pleasing contrast of colours to the eye. Sifted sugar and brandy are generally eaten with this delicious succu- lent fruit. The common, or musk-melon, is an herbaceous, succulent climbing or trailing annual, which has been cultivated for the sake of its fruit in hot Eastern countries from time immemorial. The water-melon is remarkable for the quantity of water it contains—namely, ninety-four per cent. No wonder, it has been well said, that old Mehemet Ali should have been able to eat up an entire forty-pound melon after the substantials of his dinner were dis- posed of. Melon, Compote of.—Pare and slice the fruit, and place it in boiling syrup, which should be made of white sugar, water, and any light wine. When the fruit is, tender, lay it out in a dish, and cover it with syrup. Time to boil, five to ten minutes. Probable cost, according to the season. Sufficient, a pound of sugar to half a pint of water. Melon Glace.—Prepare a syrup as fol- lows :—Dissolve three pounds of loaf sugar in a quart of water; whisk in part of the white of an egg, then set it to boil gently for five minutes. Add a little cold water at two dif- ferent times, and strain through a fine muslin into an enamelled stewpan. Flavour with essence of vanilla. Cut a melon lengthwise in good slices, remo\'ing the rind and seeds, put them into the above syrup while hot, and let them be covered up until next day, when boil the syrup, and pour it hot over the fruit; do this on three successive days. Lastly, put the fruit into jars, and pour the hot syrup over. When cold cover with bladder, and keep in a cool place. Melon Kalteschale.—Kalteschale is a sort of cold soup, but when prepared from fruit is a most acceptable substitute for pies, tarts, &c. Between layers of thinly-sliced melon strew three ounces of sifted white sugar, and the juice of a lemon. Let them stand for about an hour, then throw over them a pint of German wine. Stir carefully, but do not break the slices of melon. The kalteschale should be prepared in a bowl, and served with rusks, or spongecakes. Time to make, an hour and a half. Melon Mangoes. — Choose small, late m^ns, green and sound. Wipe them clean, ana make a circular incision round the stem, which piece remove, to scoop out the pulped part and seeds. Make a pickle of salt and water that will float an egg, lay the melons into O a broad-bottomed pan or tub, having first re- placed the piece taken out, and pour the pickle over them, two inches above the top. In twenty-four hours take them out, and drain on a sieve. Make a seasoning of a small quantity of scraped horseradish, shred shallots, equal parts of bruised mustard and coriander seed, a few peppercorns, allspice, pounded mace, and cloves. FiU the hollow of the melons with the spice, &c.; put in beans, small onions, and cu- cumbers. The onions should be jjeeled and boiled for a minute or two, the beans, &c., scalded, and the piece sewed on fimJy with coarse thread, always remembering to lay the cut sides up when the melons are put into the jar. Boil as much vinegar as will be required to cover -with the seeds of the fruit. Strew cloves, pepper, and put in a few capsicums before straining over the melons. Cover with a cloth, and let the jar stand near the fire for an hour or so. Next daj^, and for four or five successive days, make the vinegar hot, adding at the last heating about half an ounce of garlic, the same of white peppercorns, ginger, and cardamom seeds. Boil twenty minutes. Cover when cold, and set aside for use. Melon, Pickled, for Venison.—Take melons about the size of a large orange, and before they are quite ripe. When peeled, and the seeds are taken out, slice them into a bowl of good vinegar, and cover up for a week or more. At the end of that time drain the fruit, and simmer it until tender in an enamelled pan with fresh vinegar. Again drain the slices, and when dry make a thin syrup by boiling together a pound of sugar with a pint and a half of water. Skim well, put the melons into the bottles in which they are to remain, and cover with the syrup. In eight or ten days throw oflE half of it, and fill the bottles with boiled vinegar in which the flavour of a few cloves has been extracted. Let it be quite cold before being added. Melon, Preserved.—Pare some middle- sized, not over-ripe, melons—they are better than large ones for this preserve—take out the pulp and seeds, from which press the juice. Wash the melons, and add the water to the juice to be reserved for making the syrup. Divide the melons into eight pieces, lengthwise, and soak them for twenty-four hours in cold water, in which has been put salt and vinegar, allowing two tea-spoonfuls of white vinegar and one of salt to about every half gallon of water. Let the fruit be well covered and then drained-MIL MEIi ( 418 ) have ready a sjTup made with the juioo from pulp and sooda, boil a pound of good loaf HUf«;ar with ovory half-pint of tho water, and lot it grow cold. Tut tlio piocoH of melon into an onamolliMl pan with tho cold Byrup, make it gnulually hot, and when ready to boil Himiner and skim for about twelve or fifteen minutes, when the finiit should be put into a bowl care- fully, and the syrup thrown over. For tluoo successive days pour off the syrup, and boil for two minutes on tho third and last time. Add an ounce of bruised ginger, arrange the melon in large wide-mouthed glass bottles, pour tho syrup over, and when cold tie down with bladder. Time, a quarter of an hour to boil the SJTUp. Melon "Water Ice.—To make a quart of melon-water ice, skin and pound the whole of a ripe melon, and pass it through a sieve. Mix with a pint of juice a syrup made of a quait ot water and a pound and a half of sugar and the juice of a lemon. Freeze. Melts, Ragout of Pish.—Wash the melts in cold water, and then steep them in boiling water to which some vinegar has been added. Remove the melts from the water, dry them on a cloth, and cook for a quarter of an hour with parsley, chives, sal b, and pepper, in as much well flavoured veal stock as will ■Rarely cover them. A glass of white wine may be added if approved. Take out the melts when cooked, evaporate the liquid in which they were cooked to the consistence of a sauce, and thicken with two ounces of butter, mixed with a little flour. Before sending this dish to table, remember to squeeze the juice of a lemon into it. This ragout may also be prepared by another method. Cut into small pieces two onions, one carrot, and half a pars- nip, fry them in butter with parsley, chives, pepper, salt, and nutmeg. When nearly ready add a Httle flour, and mix it well with the other materials. Stir in gradually three-quarters of a pint of unflavoured stock, or water, and half a glassful of white wine. Boil the materials in a stewpan over a steady fire until they are reduced one half. Now strain oflE the clear liquid, and simmer the melts in it for about twenty minutes. When about to send to table, mix with it the yolks of two eggs beat up with cream; simmcir the whole at a gentle heat, to thicken it; and add the juice of a lemon. Meringues.—Take of finely-powdered sugar one pound, mix it lightly and ex- peditiously with ten well-whisked whites of eggg_these should be to a firm froth. When the sugar has been all put in, fill a table-spoon with the paste, and smooth it with another spoon to the desired egg-like shape, always remembering that after tho sugar has been added to the white of egg, the batter should not be worked over much or it will be made soft and it will be difficult to mould the meringues. Drop them separately, and about two inches apart, on strips of firm white paper, and keep them well moulded with the spoon. Dust them with sifted sugar, let them lie for about two minutes, shake the loose sugar from them, place the strips of paper on baking boards, and buko the meringul^s in a moderate oven until of a light fawn colour; if they are too much coloured their appearance will be spoiled. When sufficiently coloured and a little cooled, pass a thin knife under eitch, to slip tlieiii from the pajjer, scoop out a little of the soft part, and put them back in the oven to dry. Before using fill tho hollow with whipped cream, and put two meringues togi:ther. To secure variety, finely-chopped almonds or currants may be sprinkled over the top, and the insides may be filled with firm jelly or a rich preserve. Serve piled high. Probable cost, 2b. Sufficient for two dishes. Meringue of Apples.—Take twelve apples (russet or Ribston pippins are tho Vjeet, as they are less watery tluin others), cut them in quarters, take out the cores, and slice. Plac« them in a stewpan, and stir over a brisk fire for a quarter of an hour with six ounces 'of butter and a quarter of a pound of pounaed sugar. When cool, add two table-spoonfuls of jam, according to taste. Place the whole in the form of a pyramid in the centre of a dish, and cover thickly with the whites of three eggs, whipped to a firm cream with a quarter of a pound of pounded sugar. Lay this mixture on, sprinkle more sugar over, and bake. When done, the meringue should have acquired a pale yellow coloior. Time, about ten minutes to bake. Probable cost. Is. 7d., exclusive of jam. Merton Almond Pudding.—Whisk well the yolks of eight eggs and the whites of six. Blanch and pound to a fine powder six ounces of sweet almonds, add it to the eggs, together with rather more than half a poimd of sifted sugar, the juice of half a lemon, and the rind of one grated. Beat the ingredients until they are thoroughly blended; butter a pie- dish, put' in the pudding, and bake immediatel;/ for half an hour in a brisk oven. Sufficient for six persons. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Merveille Broth (Invalid Cookery).— Cut up a chicken, and put it into a stewpan with the broth from the boiling of a knuckle of veal and a calf's foot. Let the chicken simmer until tender, then take it out, and add to the liquor some salt, from two to three ounces of prepared Iceland moss, a bunch of sweet herbs, a pint of fresh-gathered garden- snails, and ten or twelve crayfish—both snails and crayfish to be first pounded in a mortar. Cover the stewpan closely, and simmer gently for two hours. Strain, and use in cases of bronchitis and catarrh. Middleton Pudding. — Make a rich batter with two table-spoonfuls of flour, a pmt of now milk, a little salt, two dessert-spoonfuls of good moist sugar, and the whole of eight eggs, well beaten, first separately and then to- gether. Flavour with nutmeg and the grated rind of a lemon. Boil in a floured cloth, leaving space to swell. Serve with wine or <5thcr pud- ding siiuce. Time, two hours to boil. Prolwble cost, Is. 4d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Milan Biscuits.—Into a pound and a half of flour rub four ounces of butter, and add four ounces of sifted sugar Mix with two well-boaton eggs a wine-glas..ful of brandy and moisten tho wholn. When the paste is thinlyMIL MIL rolled, cut it into any fanciful shapes with tin cutters. Brush the biscuits lightly over with egg, and bake in a quick oven for ten minutes. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Sufficient for two pounds and a half of biscuit. Milanese Cream.—Dissolve an ounce of isinglass in a quai-ter of a pint of water, and beat until light the yolks of eight eggs. Sweeten a pint of fresh milk with four ounces of sifted sugar, and make it hot, when stir in the beaten yolks, and continue to stir over a slow fire until the mixture becomes thick, but on no account should it boil. Strata through a fine sieve, and add the dissolved isinglass, and a cup- ful of double cream. Flavour to taste with a small glass of rum, or liqueur—maraschino or cura(,'oa. Pour the cream into a mould, well- oiled, and let it stand for three hours in a cool place to set. Sufficient for one mould. Milanese Ice Cream.—Beat up the yolks of two eggs with a pint of cream, and half a pound of tinely-sifted sugar; add the mixture to two oimces of Naples biscuits reduced to powder in half a pint of milk. Put all into a bright ste%vpan, and stir imtil it is as thick as an ordinary custard, when it may be strained through a sieve. Add a glass of sherry wine when frozen, and then put it into a mould. Probable cost. 28. per quart. Time, a few minutes to boil the custard. Sufficient for seven or eight persons. Milanese Hagout.—This ragout is used for garnishing purposes. Tongue, ham, chicken, game, with truffles, mushrooms, and macaroni are cooked and cut ofE as nearly of a uniform size as the different ingredients will permit, about an inch in length and a quarter of an inch broad. They are warmed up in white sauce with a mixture of grated Parmesan, and seasoned slightly with nutmeg and pepper. Milanese Sauce. — Dissolve a lump of butter in a stewpan, and brown in it some button-mushrooms chopped finely, a couple of anchovies washed and boned, and three or four shallots, which, Avith the anchovies, should be cut small. Shake all well round the pan, and stir in a table-spoonful of browned flour, then moisten with half a pint or more of good stock, and add a wine-glass^l of Marsala and caper- vinegar mixed, some capers, a small pinch of cayenne, a little salt, and the half of a tea- spoonful of made mustard. Simmer the sauce until the shallots, &c., are tender. Use as re- quired for salmon cutlets, &c. Time, twenty minutes to simmer. Milcou.—This is a South American pre- paration, forming a palatable and even elegant dish not unlike the Italian pastes. Potatoes and a species of pumpkin are roasted, the pulp taken out, and kneaded with salt and eggs. The paste is then rolled out, and cut into pieces about as large as a dollar. These are boiled in milk swootened for a quarter of an hour. MUes Standish's Pudding.—Beat well six eggs, yolks and whites separately. Mix with the yolks a pound and a half of curd made from new milk, and prepared with rennet. Beat the curd and eggs until smooth, then add a qiuirtor of a pound of finely-sifted sugar, a quarter of an ounce of powdered cinnamon, an ounce and a half of citron sliced, and ten ounces of raisins, weighed after stoning (these last should be soaked for some hours in brandy). Stir in the whisked whites of the eggs, and bake in a mould well buttered, and sprinkled thickly with sifted bread-raspings. When done turn out, and serve hot with custard flavoured with brandy or rum. Time, an hour and thiee- quarters to bake. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Suffi- cient for a small mould. Military Puddings.—Mix well together haU' a pound of bread-crumbs, half a pound of moist sugar, and half a pound of finely-chopped suet. Mince the rind of a good-sized lemon, squeeze the juice, and stir it into the mixture. Place the puddings in small buttered cups or moulds, and bake for half an hour in a tolerably qxuck oven. If preferred, military puddings may be boiled, if so, they must be made into small baUs. In either case serve with lemon or wine sauce. Probable cost with sauce, Is. Sufficient for five or six persons, or to fill six or seven cups. Milk, Adulteration and Richness of. Tested. — For testing the richness of milk a very simple instrument has been in- vented, known as the lactometer, or galacto- meter. It consists of a glass tube graduated to a hundred parts. New milk is poured in as far as the top of the graduated pjirt and allowed to stand. When the cream has completely sepa- rated, the value of its quality is shown by the number of parts in the hundred which it fills. Another form of instrument has been invented by Doeft'el. In it we have a small hydrometer, with a scale two inches in length marked off into twenty degrees; the zero being placed at the point where the instrument sinks in water, and the twentieth degree corres- ponding with the density 1-0383. Doeffel's instrument is much in use on the Continent. Fourteen degrees is held to show milk una- dulterated with water. Milk, Almond (see Almond Milk, and also Orgeat, or Almond Milk).—A refreshing drink. Milk-and-Butter Cakes.—Take three- quarters of a pound of flour, half a pound of butter, half a pound of sugar, one tea-spoonful of grated nutmeg, and as much milk as -will form a dough. Cut up the butter in the flour; add the sugar and spices by degrees. Stir in as much milk as will make a dough. Knead it weU, roll it out in sheets, cut in cakes, butter your tins, lay the cakes on so as not to touch, and bake in a moderate oven. Milk and Cream, To Preserve.— Add one ounce of sugar to one pint of milk, and boil it down to one-half. Run it into small bottles, and place them in a pan of cold water placed on a good fire. AUow the water to boil for an hour, and then, while still hot, close the mouths of the bottles with very good and tight-fitting corks, and let the contents become cold. When cold, dip the corks and necks of the bottles in a ladle containing melted sealing-wax or common pitch, so as to renderMIL MIL ( 420 ) the corks perfectly air-tight. Croam is pro- served by ()V!iponitiH{< it down to a quarter of its prtwious bulk, without addirif? sugar, and Dion presi'rving it in bottles us dir.ictod for milk. The bottles containing it should, Mowever, only be boiled for three-quarters of an liour. Milk and Eggs {xee Eggs and Milk). Milk, Asses', Artificial {nee Asses' Milk, Artificial). Milk, Beer Soup with {see Beer Soup with :\Iilk). Milk Biscuits.—Take a quarter of a pound of butter, one quart of milk, one gill of yeast, salt according to taste, and as much flour as will f oi-m the dough. Stir flom- into the milk 80 as to form a very tliick batter, and add the yeast; this is called a sponge. This should be done in the evening. In the morning cut up the butter, and set it near the fire where it will dissolve, bxit not get hot; pour the melted butter into the sponge, then stir in enough flour to forai a dough; Imead it well, and set it on one side to rise. As soon as it is perfectly light, butter your tins, make out the dough in small cakes, and let them rise. When they are light, bake them in a very quick oven, take them out, wash the tops over with water, and send them to table hot. Milk Breakfast Cakes.—A batter of flom-, milk, and yeast should be made over night for these cakes. Half a pint of yeast and a quart of milk made warm will moisten half a dozen pounds of flour. "VNTien risen next morn- ing (the batter should be covered and set by the fireplace during the night), beat into it four or five ounces of butter melted, knead and make into small cakes, using as much flour as will be necessary to prevent the dough sticking to the fingers. Put the cakes as they are made ou a baking-tin before the fire, while the oven is getting the required heat, then bake; they will take about twenty minutes in a hot oven. Send them to table quickly, well buttered and hot. Probable cost, '2s. Milk Coffee, or CafI au Lait.—Cafe au lait—the favourite beverage at the break- fast-tables of our continental neighbours—is the most simple of preparations, and yet is so badly made in most English households that it has become a national reproach. A very little care will enable the mistress of a family to have as good coflEee on her table as can be procured in Paris. To have cofEee in per- fection it should be roasted and ground just before it is used; the former is not always practicable, but the grinding can easily be performed daily by the aid of a small hand- mill, which is an indispensable article in every kitchen. Do not use cheap coffee. Mocha is the best. No coffee-pot answers better than the common French " alembique," which is merely a tin coffee-pot with three strainers. Place the ground coffee under the top strainer, and above the two others; now replace the top one, and pour quite boiling water in the pro- portion of three cupfuls of water to one cupful of the powder. When it bubbles up through the strainer, close the lid, and as soon as the whole of the water has passed through, the coffee is made. Boil the milk, and \>our into tliff cups in the jjroportion of liaU coffee and lialf milk. Sweeten with crushed sugar-candy or loaf sugar, as moist sugar destroys the delicate aroma of the coffee. SuUicient, au oumre of coffee to three-quarters of a pint ol water. {See aho Coffee, Breakfast.) Milkj Composition of.—As a fom of food winch we oiin regard as a tj^e of all others, there is none so perfect as milk. " It really represents," says Dr. Lan(;aster, "all the food of which we partake which is not medicinal." That milk is a type of all food is found in the fact thxit the young of all the higher nuimmalia are fed on this food for several months, many of them for above a year, and get no other article of diet. During this period they grow very rapidly, and increase in size; consequently, they must have obtained all that which constitutes their muscle, their nerve, their bone, and every other tissue, from the milk they take as food. So that milk must contain the essentials of all food. As to the exact composition of milk, one pound of cow> milk contains:— 1. Water . oz. . 13 grs. 333 2. Caseine . . 0 350 3. Butter . . 0 245 4. 6. Sugar Mineral Matter . 0 . 0 315 70 same weight of asses' milk contains 1. Water . oz. . 14 gra. 76 2. Caseine . . 0 140 3. Butter . . 0 105 4. 6. Sugar Mineral Matter . 0 . 0 420 35 Milk, Condensed.—Condensed milk is a most useful preparation for cooking purposes, or for milk puddings of any kind. It is also good in tea or coffee. The chief advantage that it has over fresh milk is, that it does not so readily turn sour, and that it contains so much sugar that little more, if any, need be used with it. ■ It is valuable in the nurserj-, as it is well known to correspond with the mother's milk better than fresh cow's milk, so that when an infant needs partial feeding, it is not at all upset by the process. TR) stewed fruits it is a very pleasant accompaniment, and is an econo- mical substitute for cream and sugar. Probable cost, 7d. to 8d. per tin. Milk Curry {see Jersey Milk Curry). Milk Farferl.—Put over the fire in a clean saucepan three pints of sweet milk, and let it heat gradually until it boils, then stir in the farferl (for which we give the recipe below), and let the milk boil for a few minutes longer. Beat an egg with a quarter of a pint of water and a little salt, with which moisten half a pound of flour, using a two-pronged fork, and beating it rapidly into a flaked paate or batter. This dish is eaten either with salt or sugar. Milk Flavour, Cocoa-nut {see Cocoa- nut Milk Flavour). Milk, Flavoured, for Sweet Dishes. —Bore a hole in one end of a fresh cocoa-nut.MIL ( 42i ) MIL pour off the milk, and break the shell with a fuiinmtr. Clear the uut from the outer brown rind, and giute the white part very finely. Put it into an enamelled saucepan, with a quart of new milk to every thi-eo ounces. Simmer very gently, that thajnilk may not bo reduced in quiuitity. Strain, and press the nut as dry as possible. Add the milk from the nut, if quite good, to this, and use it for blanc- mange, custards, or sweets of any kind. Time, thi-eo-quarters of an hour to an hour. Probable cost of nuts, 4d. to 6d. each. Sufficient, three ounces of cocoa-nut to a quart of milk. Milk. Keeping in Summer of Cream or.—Milk that has been scalded, and from which the excellent Devonshire cream is pro- duced, wiU keep sweet longer than a pan of raw milk; hence, to scald milk is the best way to preserve it sweet. The cream, when skimmed, with the addition of enough pow- dered white sugar to make it tolerably sweet, may be kept two days; but in large dairy farms, where the cream is plentiful, each day's produce should be turned into butter. A cool dairy, plenty of cold water, but above all an early-riser, one who wiU be up before the sun has risen, will succeed in the hottest weather. Milk Lemonade.—Steep the thin yellow rind of two lemons in theii* own juice for twelve hours. Strain the juice through a muslin to keep back any of the pxilp. and seeds. Sweeten with syrup in the propox-tion of two pounds of good loaf sugar—or powdered sugar of the same quantity may be used—and add a bottle of sherry or made white wine and from two to three quarts of good new milk, heated to the boiling point. It should be strained through the usual jelly-bag imtil clear. When cold this lemonade will be found refreshing and invigorating dming hot weather. Probable cost, 28. Id., exclusive of wine. Milk. Lemonade (another way).—-See Lemonade MUk. Milk Porridge.—Put into an enamelled saucepan half a pint of whole groats, on which pour a pint and a half of cold water. BoU well for two or three hours, adding more water if too thick, and strain through a colander or sieve. This porridge may be kept two or three days, and when wanted boiling milk should be added. Probable cost, without milk, 3d. Milk Porridge (another way).—The fol- lowing is a quicker and easier way of preparing porridge for children's breakfasts, suppers, &c. -Mix a dessert-spoonful of the medium oatmeal to a smooth paste with cold milk. Pour on half a pint of boiling milk and stii* the mixture over the tire till it thickens. Sweeten it and serve hot. MUk Pnnch.—This agreeable summer drink is made in the following manner:—Put into a bottle of rum or brandy the thinly-pared rinds of three Seville oranges and three lemons. Cork tightly for two days. Rub off on two pounds of lump sugar the rinds of six lemons, squeeze the juice from the whole of the fruit over the two pounds of sugar, add three quarts of boihng water, one of boilmg milk, half a tea-spoonful of nutmeg, and mix all thoroughly well together xmtil the sugar is dissolved. Pour in the rum, stir, and strain until clear; bottle closely. It is important in making punch that all the ingredients be perfectly blended together, con- sequently too nmch attention cannot be paid to the mixing. Probable cost 6s. Milk Punch (another way).—See Punch, Milk. Milk Punch, Cambridge {see Cam- bridge Milk Punch). Milk Rice.—A wholesome dish, suitable for children. When milk is scarce, the rice is first boiled tender in water, drained from it, and simmered until quite done in milk, but it is best boiled whoUy in milk. A quarter of a pound of rice will thicken a quart of milk. Simmer gently with cinnamon or lemon-peel, and add, if liked, a small quantity of very finely-shred suet. The sugar should not be put in while simmering, but when about to be served sweeten to taste. Milk rice is very liable to buni, therefore stir often. Time, about an hour to simmer. Pro- bable cost, rice, 3d. per pound. Milk Rolls.—To eight ounces of diy flour mix a little salt, and two ounces or less of butter; add half an ounce of German yeast, and an egg beaten with a small cup of milk, which should be warm, but not hot. When mixed to a fii-m dough, cover it up well in the same pan to rise, in a warm place, and when risen make into rolls and bake quickly. The rolls may be brushed over with egg before they are put on the baking-tin. Time, a quarter of an hour to bake. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for six rolls. Milk Sago.—BoU slowly for half an hour a tea-cupful of sago in a, quart of new milk, or, if prefeixed of less consistency, take rather more milk. This makes a most nutritious and agreeable dish for invalids and children, and may be sweetened and flavoured according to taste. It is well to cleanse the sago in hot water before using. Probable cost, about 6d. ii quart. Milk Saloop.—Mix rice powder with cold milk, rub it quite smooth, and boil in more milk. Keep stiiTing, flavour with lemon-peel and sugar. Take it off the tii-c, beat in two eggs one after the other, stirring all the time. 15utter a pie-dish, pour in the mixture, and bake until set. Milk saloop may be made without flavouring, if preferred, or it may be simply boiled, mixed with ground rice in a mu«h smaller quantity. Probable cost, 6d. Milk Sauce or Cream Sauce. —Take the yolks of two eggs, remove the specks, then beat them well and add a table-spoonful of powdered white, sugar, and sufficient vanilla, ratafia, lemon-peel, or any other flavouring that may be preferred, to flavour the whole. Pour this into half a pint of cream or milk, set it over the fire, and make it very hot, without letting it boil, or the sauce wiil curdle. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Time to make, ten minutes. Probable cost, with cream, Is. 4d,( 422 ) MIL MIL Milk Sconea.—Mix in a bowl a pound and a half of Hour, a hoapod toa-«poonful of carbonato of soda, tho stimo of croam of tartar, a pint of 80ur milk, and a littlo salt. Knead a little with tlie hands, roll it out, and bako in a quick ovon for ten minutes. Milk Soup.—Peel two largo potatooH and the whito part only of one leek. If a lo(!k cannot be had, a small onion may be used instead. Boil until soft in a quart of water, add a slice of butter and a little pepper and salt. Hub all through a colander with tho back of a wooden spoon. !Mix a pint of milk with the water in which tho vegetables were boiled, add the pulp, and boil the soup again, stirring it to keep it from burning. Sprinkle in a table-spoonful of crushed tapioca, boil fifteen minutes longer, and serve at once. Vermicelli or any Italian paste may, if liked, be used instead of tapioca. The French stir in pounded cocoa-nut or almonds just before serving. All whito soups should be warmed in a vessel placed in another of boiling water. Time, an hour to pre- pare. Sufficient, two quarts of milk for eight persons. Milk Soup (a German recipe).—-Set one quart of milk over the fire in a clean saucepan. Beat well the yolks of two eggs with a tea-spoon- ful of flour, sufficient sugar to sweeten, and a pinch of salt. Just before the milk boils, stir these in. If, after the eggs are put in, the soup is allowed to boil, it will curdle. All milk soups are made in the above manner, and varied by adding any preferred flavour, such as vaniUa, lemon, laurel-leaves, almonds (pounded), cin- namon, chocolate, &c. A savoury soup may also be made with onions, previously stewed in butter. They should be put into the boiling milk with pepper and salt for ten minutes before serving. Nudels, or home-made maca- roni, thrown into milk and boiled for a quarter of an hour, mikes another variety. This may be merely sweetened. M^hites of eggs, whisked to a stiff froth, and dropped on the top of the soup when in the tureen, have a very pretty effect, as have also yolks of eggs, boiled hard. Probable cost, 7d. per quart. Sufficient, allow a quart to every three persons. Milk Spatzen.—There are many different sorts of German '-spatzen," or batter-flakes, but they are all cooked in the same manner, which is, when the batter is made, whether it be of milk, water, or eggs, to scrape a few drops of it quicklv from a plate into a saucepan of boihng hquid with a wotted knife, so as to form separate little flakes of batter. Tlie batter for milk " spatzen " is miide of milk and flour, and should be stiff. Boil the flakes m milk for five minutes. Drain them, add two eggs, well-beaten, a little butter, and salt if served with roast meat, or sugar if served with jam. Time to boil, until the flakes float on the top. Probable cost, 8d. for a half-pint of batter. Milk Suet.—Put a pint of new milk into a stewpan over a slow fire, and add an ounce of mutton-sunt cut like shavings, the nnd of a quarter of a lemon, a small stick of cinnamon, and as much good white sugar as will sweeten. When tho suet has dissolved, and the flavour of lemon and cinnamon is gained, it is ready. Strain and use hot. Tliis milk is (xdisidored very iKJunshing and eflicacious in cases of lioarseneBS or loss of voice. Time, luilf an houi- or more. Probable cost, 4d. Milk Sugared^ or Lait Sucre.-A cold di-ink for evening entertainments, much used for children in France, and made by simply l)oiling milk with lemon-rind and sugar. \Vlien the flavour of lemon is gained, it is allowed to cool, and in ready for use. Milk Toast.—Slice some bread, toast it of a nice light bro-wn on both sides. Boil a pint of milk; mix together two tea-spoonfuls of flour in a little cold water; stir this into the boiling milk. Let it boil about one minute; then add a little salt, and stir into it two ounces of butter. Dip the toast in the milk, place it on a dish, and pour the remainder of the milk over it. The toast may be made much richer by increasing the quantity of butter. Milk, To Preserve.—Pour the milk into a bottle, and place the vessel up to its neck in a saucepanful of water, which is then to be put on the fire, and allowed to boil for a quarter of an hour. The bottle is now to be removed fi-om the water, and carefully closed with a good and tight-fitting cork, so as to render it as air-tight as possible. Milk which has been preserved by this process has been kept for more than a year without turning sour. Milk may also be preserved by putting a table-spoonful of horseradish scraped in shreds into a panful of milk. When milk thus treated is kept in a cool place, it -vsnll be found to keep good for several days, even in hot weather. Mill, Chocolate {sec Chocolate Mill). Mille Fruit Ice-cream. — Kasp two lemons, take the juice of them, a glass of wine, one of gi'apc-sjTup, a pint of thick cream, and eight ounces of powdered sugar. Mix and freeze, and when sufficiently congealed, add four ounces of preserved fruits, which cut small, and mix well with the ice. Let the cream remain in the ice until wanted. Probable cost, 3s., exclusive of wine, &c. Sufficient for a quart mould. MiUe Fruit Water-ice. — To half a pint of water and a pint of clarified sugar, add half a pint of sherry and grape-s>Tup, mixed- there should be two-thirds of the latter—tho strained juice of five lemons and of a larg*' orange, and the grated rinds of two lemons. Mix, and set the mixture to freeze. "V^Tien suf- ficiently congealed, put some presers-ed fruit —about four ounces to this quantity will be enough —amongst the ice, and finish tho freezing. Large fruit should be cut small. Millet Pudding.—Like sago and other small seeds, millet should be washed bpforo boihng. Simmer over a slow fire, stimnir ciircfullv, four ounces of millet, in nearly n quart oif milk. Flavour xvith th.. .bin nnd of lemon, cinnamon, or nutmeg. When cooled. HW(«eten and stir in four beaten eggs. I'lH a wcll-buttered pie-dish, and bake; or the( 423 ) MIN MIL pudding may be boiled, in which case more niillot for the same quantity of inilk must be used. Boil in a basin, well buttered. Time, about an houi- to bake; to boil, an hour and a half; fifteen minutes to simmer. Sufficient for five or six persons. Milton Pudding. — Simmer in a small saucepan a quarter of a pint of new milk, with the thin lind of a lemon and three blades of mace; boil until the flavour is gained, then strain the milk to a pint of double cream, and boil together for a minute. Sweeten while hot with an ounce of finely-sifted sugar. Let it cool, and add the beaten yolks of seven eggs and a glass of brandy. Boil in a mould, and serve cold, with sweetmeat or preserved fruit round the dish. Time, an hour to boil. Minced Collops.—Shred a shallot and part of an onion as small as may be, and brown them both in a stewpan, with a good lump of butter; let them not acquire much colour. Have ready minced a pound of the fillet or a rump-steak. Add it to the browned onion, with a small cup of stock, a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, or a few button mush- rooms, also minced, and a little parsley and thjone tied, together. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Bring it to the boil, and simmer gently for a few minutes. Serve hot, with toasted sippets round the dish. Probable cost, Is. 4d. per pound. Sufficient for two or thi-ee persons. Minced Eggs.—Boil five eggs hard and cool them in water: remove the shells and chop the eggs ; boil half a pint of new milk, add thi-ee-quarters of an ounce of flour and one ounce of butter mixed together; chop up and add half an ounce of parsley, season with salt and pepper; boil for five minutes, then add the eggs, and shake well together until the whole is thoroughly heated. Do not stir it, and garnish •with, toasted sippets and lemon. This dish is a great favourite ou the tables of vegetarians. Mince, Brandy {see Brandy Mince, for Pies). Mince for Patties.—Warm, in a quarter of a pint of good gravy well thickened, two table-spoonfuls of ham, four of the white part of a fowl, one egg (hard boiled), the whole to be finely minced. Add, pounded, half a blade of mace, two cloves, and pepper and salt to taste. When hot through, fill the patty-cases, which should have been previously baked. Mince for patties may be made of any descrip- tion of cold meat, poultrj', shell-fish, &c. Pro- bable cost, 9d. The above quantities are suf- ficient to fill six patties. Mince, Kew {see Kow Mince or Haggis Royal). Mincemeat—Mix well together half a pound of raisins stoned and chopped small; half a pound of currants washed ; half a pound of chopped beef-suet; ten or a dozen apples peeled, cored, and chopped; a quarter of a pound of lean beef, without skin or fat, boiled and chopped; one nutmeg grated, and a tea- spoonful of allspice; a quarter or half a pound of candied peel, according to the richness desired, chopped. Put the ingredients into an earthen jar with a close-fitting cover, and pour a glasti of brandy over them. Stir up these ingredients from time to time. Mincemeat is best made a fortnight or thi-ee weeks before it is wanted. Mincemeat (another way). — Procure a neat's-tongue; parboil it; take a pound and a half of it, and chop it very fine; shi-ed finely a poimd and a half of good beef-suet; stone a pound of raisins; pare and core five apples, and take the thin rind of one lemon; chop up the three last-mentioned ingredients very fine, and mix them in a large pan lined with earthen- ware. Add a pound of sifted loaf-sugar, two pounds of currants well cleaned, an ounce of cloves fijiely beaten, the juice of three lemons, and a table-spoonful of orange-flower water. ]Mix all these ingredients thoroughly together, and keep them in a covered pan. Mincemeat (another way).—Take one pound of tender beef, either baked or boiled, and chop it very fine. Chop, also, one pound of fresh suet, one pound of apples, one pound of raisins (Valentias, stoned), one pound of cur- rants, two ounces of candied lemon-peel, two oimces of orange-peel, a little of the rind of a fresh lemon chopped fine, a quarter of a pound of moist sugar, a dessert-spoonful of salt, and half an ounce of sweet spice. Mix the whole well together, and it will be ready for use. Mincemeat (a la Toulouse).—Mince two brains broiled, with some roast beef; season with pepper, nutmeg, and salt; and make them into a paste with melted anchovy butter and some yolks of eggs. Make this paste into balls of a moderate size, and roll them in bread- crumbs. They are then to be fried in butter until they become brown, when they may bo sent to table, either by themselves or with tomato sauce. Mincemeat and Mince Pies. — Take four pounds of raisins stoned, and four pounds of currants, washed clean, four pounds of apples, six potmds of suet, and half a fresh ox-tong-ue boiled, half a pound of candied orange-peel, ditto lemon, and a quarter of a pound of citron, all chopped; the juice of three oranges and three lemons, with the peel of two grated; half a pound of moist sugar, two glasses of brandy, two of sherry, one nutmeg gratedj a spoonful of pounded cinnamon, and half an ounce of salt. JMix all these well together, put the whole into jars, and keep them tied over with bladder. A little of this mixture baked in tart-pans with puff-paste foi-ms mince pies. Or peel, core, and chop finely a pound of sound russet apples, wash and pick a pound and a half of currants, stone half a pound of raisins, and let both these be chopped small. Then take away the skin and gristle from a pound of roast beef, and carefully pick a pound of bcef-suet; chop these well together. Cut into small pieces three-quarters of a pound of mixed candied orange, citron, and lemon-peel; let all these be well stirred together in a large pan. Beat or grind into powder a nutmeg, half an ounce of ginger, and a quarter of an ounce of cloves, the same of allspice and coriander-seeds; add half an ounce of salt, and put these into the pan,MIN ( 424 ) mixing them thoioughly. Grate the rinds of three lomonH, and squeeze the juice over half a pound of tine Lisbon sugar, mixed with the lomon-peel; pour over this two gills of brandy and half a pint of sherry. Let those ingredients bo well stirred, then cover the pan with a slate ; and when about to use the mincemeat take it from the bottom of the pan. Or, to make mince pies without meat, carefully prepare, as before directed, a pound and a half of fresh beef-suot, and chop it as small as possible; stone and chop a pound and a half of Smyraa raisins; well wash and dry on a coarse cloth two pounds of currants; pool, core, and cut small three pounds of russet apples; add a quarter of an ounce of mixed cinnamon and mace in powder, four cloves powdered, a pound and a half of pow- dered sugar, a toa-spoonful of salt, the juice of a lemon and its pool finely grated, and a table-spoonful of mixed candied fruit cut very small. Let all the above be well mixed to- gether, and remain in the pan a few days. When you a^-e about to make mince pies, throw a giU of brandy and the same of port wine into the pan, and stir together the mince. Line the required number of patty-pans with properly-made paste; fill from the bottom of the pan; cover, and bake quickly. Mincemeat, Apple (see Apple Mince- meat) . Mincemeat Fritters.—Beat well three eggs, separating the yolks from the whites, moisten a large table-spoonful of flour with them, and when the batter is rubbed smooth add eight ounces of mincemeat and part of the juice of a lemon. Fry in boiling lard, and put the fritters on paper before the fixe for a minute, then serve hot on a napkin. These fritters should be made small. Drop the mixture from a dessert-spoon into the frying-pan. Bread- crumbs may be used instead of flour—about two ounces and a half will be the quantity for three eggs. They should be very finely pre- pared. Time, six to seven minutes to fry. Probable cost, lOd. Mincemeat, Old-fashioned. — Take a pound of beef, a pound of apples, two pounds of suet, two pounds of sugar, two pounds of currants, one pound of candied lemon or orange- peel, a quarter of a pound of citron, and an ounce of fine spices; mix all these together, with half an ounce of salt, and the rinds of six lemons shred fine. See that the ingredients are thoroughly incorporated, and add brandy or wine according to taste. Mincemeat Royal. —To an ounce of clarified butter add the yolks of four eggs, and beat in two table-spoonfuls of pounded sugar, with the grated rind and strained juice of a large lemon. Mix these ingredients with half a pound of rich mincemeat, without beef, and nearly fill the patty-pans with the mixture. Put them into a moderately quick oven to sot. Ice them with the whites of the eggs, previously beaten to snow, wth a quarter of a pound of pounded loaf sugar, and place them in the oven again until they arc of a nice rich brown. Mincemeat, with Beef. — Stone and cut two pounds of raisins (Valencias), wash and dry two pounds of currants, mince one pound of loan beef, free from skin and gristle, chop two pounds of beef suet very fine, add two pounds of moist sugar. Cut into small pieces six ounces of mixed candied peel—orange, citron, and lemon. Pare and core a pound of ai)i)les, grate a small nutmeg and the rind of two lemons, squeo/e the juice of one, add a full tea- spoonful of allspice, and a pinch of salt. Mix these ingredients woU together, pour over them a large wine-glassful of brandy; press tightly into an earthen jar and exclude the air. Mincx-meat is best made a fortnight before it is wanted. When about to use it, take from the bottom of the jar. Probable cost, 6s. for this quantity. Mincemeat, without Beef. — Weigh a pound of good beef suet after chopping it as finely as possible, also a pound of stoned raisins; cut them across, but do not chop. Well wash and dry half a pound of currants, and pare, core, and chop the same weight of russet apples—^these are best for this purpose, as they are less watery. Add two pounds of powdered sugar, a quarter of a pound of mixed candied peel—lemon, citron, and orange (minced)—a, little powdered clove, two ounces of orange- marmalade, and mix the whole well together, so that the ingredients may be well blended; then throw over it a quarter of a pint of brandy, and .the same of sherrj', but more brandy and less sherry will do. This mince- meat should be made a month before it is used. Tie it down with bladder, to exclude the air. Probable cost, 2s. lOd. Mince Pies.—Chop one pound of beef suet very fine; two pounds of apples pared, cored, and minced; stoned raisins, one pound (minced); and one pound of currants. Add of mixed spice, in powder, half an ounce, one poimd of powdered sugar, one tea-spoonful of salt, the juice of half a lemon; cut smaU three ounces of candied orange-peel, one ounce of citron, and one ounce of lemon; mix all well together with half a pint of brandy. Tie down close in a jar, and keep for use. A larger quan- tity may be made in these proportions. Make the pies with rich, flaky crusts. Mince Pies (another way). — Of suet, chopped very fine and sifted, two poimds; currants, two pounds; raisins, one poimd; apples, two pounds; bread, half a pound; moist sugar, one and a quarter poimd; red and white wine (mixed), three-quarters of a pint; a glass of brandy (these two last according to taste); the peel of two small lemons, and the juice of one; four ounces of candied orange-peel cut. Mix, with cinna- mon, mace, nutmeg, and salt, to the taste. If preferred, omit the bread, substituting two biscuits. Mince Pies (another way).—Take three pounds of plums, Avith the same quantity of currants, add the juice of six lemons and six oranges, with four grated nutmegs and the orange and lemon-peel after it has been boiled well to extract the bitterness. When these materials arc well mixed and minced, put thorn aside in a jar, adding two glasses of brandy, ^lolt one pound of butter before the fire^ without( 426 ) MIB Buffering it to become oily, and add this, with one more glassful of brandy, and tie securely down. It should not be kept less than six weeks before it is used for the pics. Mince Pies, Egg (nee Egg Mince Pies). Minnow.—This is a diminutive fish whose homo is in rivers, brooks, and ainals. It is best known, perhaps, as affording amusement to juvenile anglers. The flavour of the minnow is good, and when a suthcient number can be procured by a casting-net, they make an excellent fry, not unlike whitebait, but rather luscious and clojTng. In Izaak Walton's time, a dish called minnow tansies was made from them, now quite out of use. The minnows were gutted, well washed in salt and water, and their heads and tails being cut off, they were put, with yolks of eggs, well beat, with cowslips and primrose-flowers, and a little tansy, shred small, and fried in butter. The sauce was butter, vinegar, or verjuice and sugar. Mint is an extensive and well-known genus of plants, with the culture and propagation of which mostly aU are famihar. Mint sauce is generally made of spear mint, which is also used for flavouiing soups, &c. Mint Julep. —A sprig of young green mint is put into a tumbler with brandy to about one-third, or a glassful of gin and another of sherry, a large tea-spoonfiil of powdered sugar, some orange-peel, without any of the white inner skin, the juice of th& orange, and as much powdered ice as will fill the tumbler. Pour these ingredients into another tumbler, and back again, to mix well. Add a slice of pine-apple, or rub the tumbler with a piece of it, and the julep is ready. Drink through a straw. Mint Julep, American.—Put a sprig of green mint, a heaped tea-spoonful of sugar, the rind and juice of a lemon, a glassful of gin, and a glassful of sheiTy, into a large glass jug. Fill it up with powdered ice, and pour quickly from one jug into another for a minute or two. Rub the edge of the tumbler with a pine-apple, if it is at hand. Probable cost, 3d., exclusive of the gin and sherry. It will be sufficient for one person. Mint Julep, American (another way). —Put into a tumbler a dozen leaves of mint, young and fresh, with a tea-spoonful of sugar, and three table-spoonfuls of brandy or whiskey. Put some pounded ice into another tumbler, and pour from one tumbler to another, until the whole is thoroughly flavoured with the mint. A little pine-apple juice is an improve- ment. Drink through a rood. Time, ten minutes. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for one person. Mint Sauce.—"Wash and free from grit three tal^le-spoonfuls of young green mint, chop exceedingly fine, and put it in a sauce-tureen, with two table-spoonfuls of powdered lump sugar and a tea-cupful of vinegar. Mint sauce should be allowed to stand an hour or two before being used. Some persons prefer moist sugar for sweetening: in that ciise so much A«rould not be required. Probable cost, 3d. O* Mint Sauce (another way).—Spearmint (the true species, both for this and to boil with green peas) is a plant which becomes a weed in any but the driest and sandiest soils. In ordinary garden- ground, it soon shows its encroaching disposi- tion. It may bo obtained early, by covering it with a cloche, bell-glass, or hand-light; by putting a tuft into a frame or hot-bed; or by growing it in-doors, in a pot, or mignonette- box. Wash the sprigs of mint, to clear them from dust or rain-splashings; let them dry on a napkin; strip oft' the leaves, and chop them fine on a chopping-board. Fill your sauce- boat one-quarter full of chopped mint; pour over the mint vinegar equal to half the con- tents of the sauceboat. Drop in a few Iximps of sugar, and let it stand at least an hour before serving, to extract the flavour of the herb. Before sending it to table, stir up all together. Llint sauce will keep for a time, bottled, and be just as good, if not better, than it was the first day. Mint Sauce (another way).—See Lamb, Sauce for. Mint Sauce, Green {see Green Mint Sauce). Mint, Season for Drying.—There are two kinds of mint—speaiiuint, used for culinary purpovses, and peppermint, for medicinal uses or distilling. In the summer, dming the months of June and July, the spearmint should be gathered on a drj- day, dried gradually in a rather cool oven or in the shade, powdered, sifted, and bottled for -^vinter use. Mint Vinegar, Green (see Green Mint Vinegar). Minuten neisch.—Cut from the tender ^uicy part of a leg of veal a pound and a half, m slices exceedingly thin, and from three to four inches square. Season each slice with salt and pepper, lay them in a deep dish, and pom* over them enough vnne to coA'er. When thej have steeped and imbibed the wine, dust them with flour on both sides, and put them into a stewpan of dissolved butter; add enough white stock to reach to half an inch above the meat. Squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and simmer with the lid closed. The meat should not boU hard, or it will be spoiled. Time, three hours to steep in wine; five minutes to sim- mer after it has come to the boil. Sufficient for four or five persons. Mirepoix.—A flavom-ing for made dishes, which should be always at hand and ready for use. The following extract of meat and vege- tables is to be recommended:—Brown in a stew- pan, with three ounces of butter, a pound of uncooked ham, and half that weight of fat bacon, cut into small pieces. Slice two carrots, two onions, and two shallots, and add them, with a couple of bay-leaves, a bunch of parsley, or the roots sliced, and a sprig or two of thyme. When slightly coloured, pour in two quarts of good veal stock, and a bottle of light wine. Spice, pounded mace, and cloves may be added, but a dozen peppercorns, bruised, are indis- pensable. Boil, strain, and use this flavouring . when wanted. Time, two hours to simmer.( 426 ) MOL Miser's Sauce. — Minco somo young onions, a littlo puisloy, wliicli sliould bo firat Bciildcd, and grato a doHMort-Hpoonful of horso- radish. Jlix thoso ingi-odionta witli an equal quantity of oil and vinogar. Shallot, chopped linisly, may bo usod instead of tho young onions, and molted butter instead of oil, but tho butter should bo well stirred to prevent oiling. Mixed Fruit Pudding.—Buttor a large tin mould, one that will holu a quart, and line it with stale tine broad, lirst cut into slices of about the fourth of an inch thick, and again ■with a tin-cutter, into pieces of a triangular form. This form will fit best into tho bottom of the mould, but long narrow- strips of half an inch broad will be best for tho sides. Have ready a syrup made by boiling a pint of cur- rant-juice with a pound and a half of loaf sugar, and, tho mould being now prepared, simmer a pint of not over-ripe raspbei-ries with, half the quantity of currants, in the syrup for a few minutes, when fill the mould while the fruit is in a boiling but whole state, and set the pudding to cool over ice; or it may be made the day before it is wanted. Time, twenty-five minutes to boil syrup; ten minutes to simmer fruit. Mixed Jam.—Boil together any quan- tity or kind of fruit—currants, gooseberries, cheiTies, or plums—with or without the stones, for half an hour; then add to every pound half a pound of moist sugar, and boil another half hour. It is an excellent jam for the nursery. We would recommend that all fruit should be stoned. ]\Iixed jam will keep six months. Mock Turtle Soup.—This is the staple soup of English life, to be met with in most of the dining-rooms and hotels, not only in London, but almost everywhere in Great Britain. As its name implies, it is an imitation of turtle soup, introduced to us by our navi- gators about one hundred years since. The essential point in mock tm^;le, must, therefore, be the "lumpy delight" fm-nished by calf's head; and the choice of the head should be a matter of some importance. It should be large, firm, and fat, full of brain, with good tongue and cheeks. As the prep..ration of this soup is a labour of love, and will occupy time, our recipe will run. in the order of arrangement. First, clean and blanch a calf's head, with the skin on. Take out the brains, and put tho head into eight or nine quarts of spring water. Bring it gently to a boil, skim frequently, and keep it simmering a couple of hours, by which time it should be sufiiciently done to remove tho bones easily. Second, return the bones to the pot, and add three pounds of fillet of veal, three pounds of leg of beef, cut into an inch and a half square pieces, three pounds of deli- cate pickled pork, also cut into small pieces, three or four slices of good sound old ham for flavouring, four large onions, sliced, throe heads of celery, a large bunch of sjivoury herbs, parsley, a few leaves of green basil, lemon thyme, marjoram, two bay-leaves, and stew gently, with good careful skimming, three full hours, adding stock to keep up the required fiuantity of soup. Tliird, while the stock is boiling, cut from the head the skin and fnt that adhoiea to it into nice aizablo pieces, and cut tho tongue into cubes of an inch square, the fleshy parta of tho hood into diamonda, dice, or any other slmpe. Make brain balls, or any other forcemeat, or egg balls. Fourth, when the stock has been sufficiently boiled, atraiu it from the bones, ic. (retaining only rich bits of meat), into a large clean stewpan; add the skin, tongue, (fee, and a aeasoning of cayenne and mace, Harvey's sauce, muslu'oom ketchup, or any other seasoning that may be desirable, Tliicken with four ounces of butter, kneaded in as mucli brown flom-, and sinuner gently for an hour, if tho calf's head, ice, requii-e it; but twenty minutes before servuig, add lialf a pint of sherry and the brain or other balls, button mushrooms (two or three oimces). Fifth, the best mode is to place the pieces of head, ice, at the bottom of the tureen, and strain the soup thi'ough a tammy-cloth; but if due care has been taken in the second stage of the prepara- tion, and the skimming has been constant and careful, this need not be resorted to. Sixth, serve with lemon on a plate, as some persons like the soup a little acid. (For half a calf's head take half the ingredients. This recipe is for four quarts. Mock Turtle Soup of CalTs Head (another way).—See Calf s Head, Mock Turtle Soup; also Turtle Soup, Mock, several recipes. Mock Turtle Soup, rorcemeat Balls for {see Forcemeat Balls, &c.). Modena Cake.—The lightness of this cake depends greatly on the mixing and beating together of the ingredients. Warm six ounces of butter before the fire until it is as soft as cream. Beat into it half a pound of flour, and the same of finely-sifted sugar. Have ready whisked half a dozen eggs (the}'' should be whisked from ten to fifteen minutes). Work the flour and sugar gradually and smoothly with the eggs. Add grated lemon-peel and thinly-sliced candied orange-pc3l to flavour; and lastly, beat briskly into the mixture as much carbonate of soda as will cover a shilling. Put the cake quickly into the oven, which should be moderately heated. The tin should be lined with a buttered paper. Time, ten to fifteen minutes to beat eggs; to bake, an hour. Mogul Sauce.—Mince ten or a dozen shallots, pour -vdnegar on them, and let them soak six hours. Strain the vinegar, about a pint; add the same quantity of mushroom ketchup, rather less than half the quantity of soy, a small tea-spoonful of cayenne, a dozen all- spice, some anchovy-juice, and half a tea- spoonful of mustard-secJ. Boil gently, strain, bottle, and cork the bottles tightly. Molasses.—This is the saccharine prin- ciple in the dregs or refuse drainings from tho casks, &.C., of sugar, and the uncrystallisable part of the juice of the cane separated from the sugar during the process of granulation. It consists of sugar prevented from crystallising by acids, and saline and other inatters. On account of its cheapness, molasses is much em- ployed as an article of domestic economy. It is considered verv* Avholesome, and cliildn'n are gcncr ally very fond of it. A French writerMOO ( *27 ) has shown that it may be deprived of its pecu- liar taste by boiling it with pulverised charcoal for half an hour; the saccharine liquor is then strained from the charcoal, when its iiavour is found equal to that of sugar. Molly Clark's Pudding—Make a custiird of a pint and a half of new milk, which has been previously flavoured with vanilla, half a pint of cream, the yolks only of eight eggs, and three oimces of white sugar. Stir until cold, when pour into a well-buttered basin or mould, cover with a buttered paper, and simmer gently for an hour. When done lot the pudding stand a few minutes before tiiming out. Serve with a hot fruit syrup or jelly poured round it, not over, or stewed French plums, or a compote of any kind that taste or fancy may direct. Probable cost, 1b. lOd. Sufficient for four or five persons. Monastery Wine Soup. — Pick and wash four oimces of good rice, put it into a saucepan with a pint and a half of cold water, and the yellow rind of a lemon. Let it soften gradually, and when it has become quite tender, pour over it a pint and a half of any white wine, and stir in from three to four ounces of sugar. Beat the yolks of four eggs, pour the soup slowly upon them in the tureen, and serve at once. Monitor's Tart.—Make three-quarters of a pound of good puff paste, observing the proportions of three-quarters of a pound of butter to one pound of flour. Divide in two portions, roll out one half to about a quarter of an inch thick, and cut it round with a tin-cutter. Well flour the pastry, and transfer it to the oven-leaf, which should be quite cold. Fill the tart with a compote of apples, pre- pared in the following manner :—Stew one pound of apples, cut into quarters (pared and cored), in a clean saucepan, with a quarter of a pound of lump sugar, one ounce of butter, and a little powdered cinnamon, until they are tender but not broken. They must not be put into the crust until cold. When placing the apples be careful to leave a margin an inch in depth all round. EoU out the other half of the crust, and lay it carefxilly over the apples. Brush the edges with the white of an egg, and press them well together, that the juice may not escape. Brush over the outside with the white of an egg, and sift a little sugar over it, and a few finely-chopped almonds. Bake in a moderate oven for three-quarters of an hour. Time to stew the apples, fifteen to twenty minutes. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Monk's Patties, The {see Patties, The Monk's).—A dish for Lent. Monmouth Pudding.—Take the crumb of a stale white loaf, put it into a basin, and pour over it boiling milk, in the proportion of a pint of milk to four ounces of bread. Cover until it is well soaked, then add two heaped table-spoonfuls of pounded white sugar, from four to five ounces of butter dissolved before the fire, the grated peel of a dry lemon with the juice of a fresh one, and three well-whisked eggs. Pour the mixture into a buttered dish, the bottom of which has been spread with jam— strawberry, raspberry, or plum. Bake for twenty minutes. Probable cost. Is. 4d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Montagu Pudding.—Mix to a smooth batter two ounces of flour, a quarter of a pint oi milk, and four eggs, well beaten. Then add half a pound of chopped (not rolled) suet, half a pound of stoned raisins—or a quarter of a. pound of raisins, and a quarter of a pound of sultanas—and two table-spoonfuls of moist sugar. Pour the whole into a basin, flour a cloth, put it over the top, and tie down tightly. Plunge the pudding into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for four hours. Sufficient for six persons. Pfobable cost. Is. Montpellier Butter (Beurre de Mont- pellier).—Take equal quantities (about a hand- ful of each) of tarragon, chervil, and pimpernel, together with a small quantity of chives, and place them in boiling water to blanch. Then remove them, allow them to cool, and drain off all the water adhering to them. Then dry them on a cloth, and compress them to remove all moisture. Now place them in a mortar, with a clove of garlic, a handful of capers, the yolks of eight eggs boiled hard, the same number of anchovies, and some gherkins. Beat them together for five minutes, and then add one pound of good butter; season with nutmeg, salt, and pepper, and again beat them up together until perfectly mixed, a wine-glass- ful of the finest olive-oil being added during the process. When well mixed, pour on it, by little and little, a quart of vinaigre a I'estragon (vinegar flavom-ed with tarragon). Colour the preparation with the green colouring prepared from spinach-leaves. When the whole is thoroughly mixed, remove it from the mortar, and place it in a suitable vessel for sending to table. Montreal Pudding.—Put four ounces of flour into one basin, and whisk three eggs for ten minutes in another. Add to the eggs a small cup of milk, a large table-spoonful of good moist sugar, and the quarter of a small nutmeg, grated. Mix the flour and eggs gradually together, and stir in nearly half a pound of fine bread-crumbs. This mixture should be beaten for quite twenty minutes, when half a pound of raisins, stoned and cut, may be added. Butter a basin or mould, and boil; the mould to be well tied over the top. Time, three hours to boil. Probable cost. Is. Sufficient, for four- or five persons. Montrose Cakes.—Beat a pound of fresh butter to a cream, with an equal weight of finely-sifted sugar. Whisk a dozen eggs for ten minutes, add them, with half a glassful of brandy, a little nutmeg, and a table-spoonful of rose-water, gradually, to the creamed butter. Beat the mixture for twenty minutes, dredging into it the whole of one pound of flour, well di-ied and sifted. If currants are liked, they can be added. Three-quarters of a pound will be enough for these ingredients. Moor Game, Broiled.—Truss the birds firmly, and di\nde them down the back; flatten the breast, and bruise the leg. Season with cayenne, white pepper, and salt. Put them( 428 ) MOB MOO into a stowpan with plenty of butter. Close the lid, and simmer for flftoen or twenty minutes. Take them out, and finiah on the gridiron. Serve witli a aauco as followB:—Chop Bonio shallot and a little parsley together, stew them both in a small quantity of stoclc; add vinegar luad pepper. Time, eight to ten minutes to broil. Moor Game Pie.—Season the birds highly with cayenne, black pepper, and salt. Any other seasoning will rob them of their native flavour. They may be divided or not, accord- ing to size. Small birds are best whole. Boil down any trimmings for gravy. Put this, witli some good beef gravy, into a pio-dish, and lay in the bu-ds with bits of butter over them; or a rump-steak, well seasoned, may bo laid in the bottom of the pie-dish, with the gravy from the trimmings. Cover with a puff paste and bake, but do not overdi-ess it. If the pie is to be eaten hot, a little melted butter, mixed with a glassful of claret, and the juice from a lemon may be poui-ed into it thi'ough a funnel; but for a cold pie this is not necessary. Time, thiec- quarters to one horn- to bake. Probable cost, exclusive of fowl, 2s. Moor Game, Roasted.—Cut off the head, wipe out the inside, and truss like a fowl. I'lcnty of butter to baste and a quick fire are in- dispensable. If overdone, moor game are spoiled. Serve them on buttered toast soaked in the dripping-pan, with plain melted butter thrown over them, or, if preferred, a gravy and bread sauce. The delicious aroma of the moor fowl is lost if other seasoning than pepper and salt be given it. Fine bread-crumbs, toasted with butter to a light brown, should accompany this dish. Time, half an hour or more. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. to 3s. 6d. the brace. Sufficient, two for a dish. Moor Game Salad (a la Soyer). —Put a slight layer of butter round a dish, by means of which secure a border of hard-boiled eggs. Cut into four, lengthways, taking off the lip to make them stand. FLU the dish with a season- able fresh salad; garnish the egg-border taste- fully, with beetroot, fillets of anchovies, or gherkins. For the sauce observe the following instructions : — Take two table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped shallots, two of poimded sugar, the yolks of two eggs, two table-spoonfuls of chopped tarragon and chervil, a salt-spoonful of white pepper, two of salt, twelve table- spoonfuls of salad-oil (which should be very gradually mixed), and three of chilli vinegar. When mixed keep it on ice imtil wanted, and when ready to serve add half a pint of whipped cream. Pour a little of the sauce over the salad. Arrange the inferior parts of three roast grouse on the top, over which pour more sauce, and continue to place the joints in a pyramidtil form wth the sauce, until all bo well used up. Mr. Soyer considered this salad " better adapted to gentlemen than ladies." Moor Game Soup.—Take the pot-liquor of a boiled turkey; add any inferior parts of game, with the gizzards, crops, and livers, and boil it until reduced to two quarts ; then strain. Skin the birds, and cut them iato neat pieces; fry them in butter, with a few thin bUcoh of lean liam, an onion, a carrot, and part of a turnip, all sliced. Drain, and put the game into tlie stock, with a head of celery cut into inch lengtliB, and some parsley; a few Jamaica peppers and cloves may be added; but much seasoning should Ijo avoided, as it destroys the llavour of the game. Slices of veniB<jn, or the trimmings, will add much to the flavour of thia SOUf). Moor Game, Stewed,—Cut the birds into jomts, if large, but only quarter small ones; rather old birds nuiy be utilised by thiii mode of cooking. Put a quarter of a pound of butter into a large stewpan, lay in the joints, brown them over a slow fire, take them out, make a gravy in the pan, adding a small cup of stock and a couple of glassfuls of port vmie, with a bit of garUc the size of a pea; season with white pepper, salt, and cayenne, it approved, and simmer slowly until tender. Thirty minutes will be suflicient time for young birds. The skin should be removed from old ones before they are fried. Probable cost, uncertain. Morella Cherries [nee Cherries, Morella). Morella Cherry Brandy.—Select fine ripe fruit gathered on a dry day; cut off the stalks to within an inch, and put them at once into wide-necked quart bottles. Allow to every pound of fruit four ounces of white sugar- candy or loaf sugar, and a pint of the best brandy. Some cherry or peach kernels will improve the flavom-; tie the bottles down with bladder, and store in a diy place. Do not put all the sugar at the top or bottom of the bottle, but distribute it equally amongst the cherries. Probable cost, Is. to Is. 6d. per pound. UORELS. Morels.—The morel is one of the few edible fungi found in this country which may be employed as food with safety. It is much more common, however, in many parts of the middle and south of Europe than here. It is nutritious, and not diflicult to digest; the chief use to which it is put is to flavour sauces and gravies. It is used either fresh or dried, and is often brought to market in a dried state. It makes excellent ketchup. Morels, Sauce of.—Take green morels (when dried they impart little or no flavoirr to a dish), wash and stew thorn in a tightly closed pan, with a good lump of butter: when tender take out the morels, add some flour, let it brown in the butter, and use good erravy to make it of the proper consistency. Flavour with grated(429) MOB MUL lemon-rind and jxiice. Put in the morels, and serve hot. Morels, Stewed.—Morels are seldom served at English tables, but when stewed fresh have a rich flavour, highly appreciated by connoisseurs; stew them in a little good gravy, powdered mace, pepper, Siilt, and a glassful of white wine for an hour. If large cut them into foiu-; thicken the gi-avy with butter and flour, and add lemon-juice to taste; serve hot. Moselle Cup.—To a bottle of moselle in a jug pour a glassful of sherry, or pale brandy, and add four or five thin slices of pine-apple, the peel of half a lemon, cut very thin, and some lumps of ice, and sweeten to taste. A bottle of iced soda or seltzer-water must be added before using. Mother Eve's Pudding.—Take of sUced apple, well-washed currants, grated bread, and finely-shred suet, each twelve ounces, mix them in a bowl, with half the rind of a lemon, minced, and moisten with four well- beaten eggs. Boil in a buttered mould, and serve with a sweet sauce, as follows :—Sweeten a quarter of a pint of melted butter, add nutmeg, a large glassful of sheiry, and part of the juice of a lemon. Time, three hours to boil. Probable cost. Is. 8d., exclusive of wine. Sufficient for five or six persons. Mother's Apple Pudding {see Apple Pudding, Mother's). Moulds, To Use.—Dip them into cold water before filling them with either jelly or cream. When about to turn out the contents, dip them quickly into hot water, ana wipe dry. Muffins.—Make a dough of rather soft consistency with warm milk, allovsdng to everj' quart of milk an ounce and a half of German yeast, which should be first mixed with the milk; add the beaten whites of two eggs, and cover the dough closely before the fire to rise. When ready, drop the quantity of dough required for one muffin upon a well-floured board, and form it into shape by turning it round with the hand, then slide it upon the hot plate. To make and bake muffins well is a difficult task, and as they are now to be obtained at any respectable baker's, there are, unless for families living far from town, very few home-made muffins. Time, twenty to thirty minutes to bake. Probable cost. Is. 6d. for this quantity. Sufficient, four poimds of flour. Muffins (another way). — See Breakfast Muffins. Muffins, American.—Warm a pint of new milk, add to a table-spoonful of fresh yeast, a pinch of salt, the white of two eggs, frothed, and a little lump of saleratus, the size of a pea, dissolved in warm water. Put these ingredients into a bowl, and add sufficient flour to make a soft dough. Put it in a warm place to rise for two or three hours, being careful to cover the bowl with a cloth. Take out, on the end of a spoon, enough dough for one muffin at a time, drop it on a floured board, and shake it until it is the proper form. Let the muffins rise again, then place care- fully on a hot plate or stove, previously oiled; when one ride is slightly browned, turn on the other. When done, divide the edge of the muffin all round with the thumb and finger; toast it gently first, on one side, then on the other; tear it open, and place two or three lumps of butter between, and cut into quarters. Pile three or four on a dish, and send hot to table. Time, about twenty minutes to bake. Probable cost, about Id. each. One will be sufficient for each person. Muffins and Crumpets^ Pudding of {see Crumpet and Muffin Pudding). Muffins, Indian {see Indian Muffins). Muffins, Potato {see Potato Muffins). Muffins, Pudding of.—Beat six eggs tor ten minutes, lay three muffins and two crumpets into a bowl, and pour over them three breakf ast- cupfuls of boiling milk, flavoured with lemon- peel, and sweetened with loaf sugar. Mix when cold, and add a glassful of brandy, twc ounces of sweet almonds, blanched and chopped small, and the beaten eggs; half a pound of stoned muscatels, or dried cherries, may be added, and the whole should be well stirred before being put into the buttered basin for boiling, or into a dish lined with puff paste, if the pudding is preferred baked. Time, one hour to bake or boU. Sufficient for five or six persons. Probable cost, 2s., exclusive of brandy. Muffins, Toasted.—To toast muffins slit them round the edge to the depth of an inch or more, but keep them attached in the centre while toasting. Pull open, and butter fi'eely. Lay them on a very hot plate, and serve cut across. Mulberry.—The fruit of the mulberry is brought to the dessert, and recommends itself by its highly aromatic flavour and abundant subacid juice. It is wholesome, cooling, and rather laxative; like the strawberrj^ it doe^ not undergo the acetous fermentation, and therefore may safely be partaken of by gouty and rheumatic persons. The most forward THE MrrLBEBRY. mulberries attain maturity about the end of August, and there is a succession of ripening fruit on the same tree for about a month or six weeks. The ripening berries rapidly change from a reddish to a black colour, and should be gathered accordingly for immediate use. This delicate fruit will not keep good off the tree for above a day or two. Mulberry Juice.—The chief use of the fruit of the black mulberry is for the dessert; l)ut from its cooling and laxative properties its juice, diluted with water, is sometimes used as a beverage in fevers. It is also employed in the form of syrup for medicinal purposes, chiefly to colour other fluid medicines. The juice is alsoMUL (430) MUL made use of to give a dark tinge to liqueurs and confections. When properly prepared and fermented, the fruit yields a pleasant vinous liquor, widely known by the name of mulberry wine. In the cider countries the fruit is occasionally mixed with apples to form a beverage called mulberry cider. Mulberries, Preserved.—Simmer the mulberries in a jar, as directed in the recipe for MulbeiTy Syrup, and strain the juice. Put a pint of this into a preserving-pan, with two pounds and a half of sugar in small lumps; stir until the sugar is dissolved. Keep it boiling for about five minutes, skimming carefully, then add two pounds of the fruit, without any bruised berries. Move them gently in the syrup, and let the pan stand by the side of the fire until the preserve is hot through, then boil very gently for half an hour, and put them by to cool until next day. This would be best done in an earthenware or enamelled pan, as the shifting from one vessel to another is likely to break the fruit. Boil again next day. The syrup, when cold, should be firm ; test it before the pots are filled. INIulbeiTies are not often bought, as they are not produced plenti- fully in England. The preserve is refreshing and cooling, and the syrup, when mixed with water, is efficacious in cases of sore thi-oat. Mulberry Syrup.—Get the juice from quite ripe mulberries, put them into a jar, and set the jar in a not verj' hot oven, or, which is better, in a vessel of boiling water, and, as the juice separates from the fruit, pour it off, and when sufficiently done, strain through a sieve without pulping the mulberries. Boil the juice, allowing to each pint a pound of good loaf sugar; skim, and when cold, put into bottles, and cork tightly. Time, three-quarters of an hour to extract the juice. Boil to a thick syrup. Mulberry Vinegar.—Put six poimds of ripe mulberries into an earthenware pan, and pour over them vinegar to cover. When they have soaked twenty-four hours, bruise them with a wooden spoon, and cover with a cloth for another twenty-four hours; bruise, and mix well; add more viuegar, until nearly a gallon has been poured upon them. When they have stood a week (they should be stirred daily during the time), strain off the vinegar, to every pint add a pound of loaf sugar, and boil and skim well for five minutes. To be used like raspberry vinegar. Mulberry Water.—Put a pound of mul- berries into a basin, and cover them with lump sugar, coarsely powdered; crush them together, then pour over them a pint of water, and filter through a fine sieve. Mulberry water is most refreshing as a drink in cases of fever. Mullagatawny Soup.—This is soup of any kind fiavoured with curry powder. It is highly stimulating, gives tone and vigour to the digestive organs, and is frequently accept- able in very hot or very cold climates. Never- theless we do not recommend its frequent use, though it may occasionally be resorted to on festive occasions. When made in India, the curry powder is largely mixed with coriander. cassia, cayenne pepper, black and white pepper, curineric, garhc mixed with lemon-acid or sour apples, mangoes, tamarinds, or other acidulouH fruit; but it is now needless to prepare and mix all these ingredients, as a large or small bottle of well-jirepared curries, to suit any palate, may be purchased at any oilman's store. If a plain curry or mullagatawny soup is preferred, mix the powder with equal quan- tity of browned flour and a little cold stock or broth, which may be put in with the meat of the soup half an hour before serving. Soft meats, fowl, &c., may be wholly stewed in this curry stock, though the finer sorts of curries will not admit of this, mangoes, tamarinds, ice, taking only a few minutes; but the experienced cook will readily distinguish and determine on such additions. With a plain curry there should be a flavouring of lemon-acid just before serving. It is almost impossible to define precisely what should be the several ingredients of the more complex curries—the cook must study the likings of the guests—some do not like coriander-seed, others dislike garlic; cassia in some cases is disagreeable ; though, when all those ingredients are carefully pro- portioned with just sufficient cayenne to stimu- late, it should be found a most enjoyable soup. The housekeeper will readily understand that any good stock soup may be converted into mullagatawny or curry soup, but as it usually occupies considerable space in every cookerj'- book, we add a few examples, pointing from the simple soup above mentioned to more expensive dishes. Mullagatawny Soup (another way).— See Indian Mullagatawny Soup. Mullagatawny Soup, Calf s Head.— Prepare a calf's head as for mock-turtle, put it into a stewpan with a cow-heel, cover with four quarts of water, and boil until tender. MTien cold cut off the meat from the bones, and browTi them lightly in a Little butter, with four shred onions. Put the meat back into the stock, and add curry, flavoured to taste. This time it will bear more cayenne, Harvej^'s sauce, or any other sauce that may be esteemed. Rice in a separate dish should always accompany mnlla- gata%vny soup. Mullagatawny Soup, Fowl.—Boil a fowl in good veal stock, or with a knuckle of veal and half a pound of minced ham. "When the fowl is nearly done take it and the knuckle out, strain the stock, cut up the fowl into convenient-sized pieces, and replace with the stock. Then add a table-spoonful of curry, flavoured to taste, a cupful of curds, a little salt and an ounce of butter for each quart of soup. Mullagatawny, Household. — Soak two pounds of tinned mutton in two quarts of water. Fry two apples, two onions, two turnips, two leeks, and a bimch of herbs. Pour on a pint of the liquor in which the meat is soaking; boil for half an hour. Mix two table-spoonfuls of flour and one of currj' powder with cold water. Stir into the liquid, add the rest of the water and the meat. Boil for three hours. Press the whole through a sieve, boil again, add salt, and serve with boiled rice. Servo with a dash of lemon. Time to simmer UK-at, four hours.MUL (431 ) MUM Mullagatawny Soup, Rabbit—Cut up two young rabbits into small pieces, fry them in butter until they ai-e nearly dressed enough, with four onions sliced finely. Place these in a Btewpan, pour in a quart of stock, and simmer for an houi-. Then take out the rabbit, and strain off the onions; replace the rabbit in the stewpan with two more quarts of stock, as good as you wish to make it, and when it boils stir in two table-spoonfuls of curry powder, flavoured as you may prefer; add mango pickles, &c., just before serving. Fowl may be served in the same way. Mullagatawny Vegetable.—Take five or six young vegetable-marrows, and the same of middle-sized cucumbers, pare, cut them lengthwise into slips, empty their seeds, and divide them again into dice. Paie and core four sour apples or tomatoes, and slice a couple of Spanish onions. These last fry, slightly broAvn- ing them, in a large stewpan, with a quarter of a pound of good fresh bxitter. Throw in the other vegetables before the butter has acquired much colour, and stir them gently roimd. Shake the pan frequently, and stew gently over a slow fire until half done, when add from two to three large table-spoonfuls of good curry powder, and stew the vegetables until they will pulp, pom-ing in boiling veal stock enough to cover. Strain thi-ough a coarse hair-sieve, pressing the pulp with a wooden spoon. Add more stock, or even water, if stock be not at hand, according to the quantity of soup required, and any additional seasoning — salt, cayenne, or lemon-juice. Thicken if necessary with a very little ground rice or arrowroot, and serve with rice, if liked; but it should be, if properly made, quite thick enough without any addition. Time, two hours to prepare. Sufficient, one quart for six persons. Mulled Wine.—To a bottle of wine add five ounces of loaf sugar, three cloves, and the sixth part of a nutmeg, grated. Place the wine in a bright tin pot with a lid. Keep it over a gentle heat till it is nearly boiling: then send to table in a hot silver jug with a Ud. Mulled "Wine (a French recipe).—Take a wine-glassful and a half of water, quarter of an ounce of spice, cinnamon, slightly bruised ginger, and cloves, mixed, and three ounces of sugar. Mix these ingredients, and boil till they form a thick sjTup, taking care that they do not bum. Pour in a pint of port wine ; stir gently till just on the point of boiling; then serve immediately. If a strip or two of orange- rind cut very thin is added to wine thus prepared, it gives the flavour of bishop. In making this beverage in France, light claret is substituted for port wine: the better sorts of vin ordinaire are excellent thus prepared. Mullet, Grey {f>ee Grey Mullet). Mullet, Grey, Boiled. — Put large muUot into cold water, salted in the proportion of two ounces of salt to every two quarts of water. Bring the water quickly to the boil, then simmer until done. Small mullet, like other small fish, should be put into almost boiling water. Serve with anchovy or caper sauce, and plain melted butter. Time to boil, a quarter to half an hour. Probable cost, 8d. per i)ound. Mullet, Grey, Broiled.-Scale, clean, and take out the gills and inside. A fish of I about two pounds will be best for this mode of cooking. Score the mullet on both sides, lay it on a dish, sprinkle with salt, and pour three table-spoonfuls, of oil over it. Turn on the dish-, di-ain, and when to be broiled, fold in oiled paper or not; the fire should be mode- rate and even. The scores should not be more than a quarter of an inch deep. When sent to table put from six to eight ounces of maitre d'hotel butter on it. Time to broil, half an hour. Mullet, Hed.—These fish may be roast, baked, or broiled, and are excellent either way. Scrape and wash, then wipe them quickly. The gills and fins only are removed, but the inside is dressed with the fish, the liver being a much- esteemed morsel. Fold each mullet in oiled or buttered paper, and bake about twenty-five minutes. Serve Avithout the paper, and with sauce in a tureen. Make the sauce thus :—Into a little good melted butter pour the liquor which has oozed from the fish, add a glassfiil of wine, white or red, a little essence of anchovies, cayenne, and lemon-juice. Time, twenty to thirty minutes to prepare. Probable cost, from Is to 2s. each. Mullet, Red (a la Maitre d'Hotel).— Clean four red muUet, and wipe them quickly. Score them to the depth of a quarter of an inch, and lay them to steep in a small wine- glassful of salad-oil. Add a salt-spoonful of salt, and one of pepper, an onion, sliced, and a bunch of parsley in sprigs. "When the fish have become well saturated, drain and put them on the gridiron. Let the fire be bright and even. In ten minutes the mullet ■will be done. Brown alike on both sides. Serve hot on a dish, with maitre d'hotel butter under them; about seven or eight ounces will be enough. Time, half an hour to steep in oil. Probable cost, Is. to 28. each. Mullet, Stewed.—Make a sauce as fol- lows :—Put together in a stewpan three glassf uls of hock and sherrj' wine mixed, the fonner to be two-thii-ds of the quantity given. Slice thinly a small carrot and turnip, also half a small lemon ; add a bay-leaf, a blade of mace, and a bunch of thyme and parsley. Lay in the fish, and stew gently over a slow fire. Strain the gravy, thicken with butter rolled in flour, season with salt and pepper, and serve the fish on a hot dish, with the sauce poured over. Time, twenty to thirty minutes to stew. Pro- bable cost. Is. to 28. each. Sufficient, thi'ee fish for this sauce. Mum. —Take eighty gallons of water, brew it with seven bushels of wheaten malt, one bushel of oat-malt, and one bushel of ground beans. When it has worked or fermented awhile in a hogshead not too full, put into it of inner rind of fir three pounds ; one pound of tops of fir and birch ; thioe handfuls of carduus henedictm; a handful or two of flowers from xolis; bumet, botony, marjoram, ponny-royal, NvildMTJS MUS ( 432 ) thyme, of onch a handful; two handfuls of t'ldcr-Howors ; thirty ouucoh of Hoeds of ciir- dumou, bniisod; and ono oimco of barberries, bruised. When the liquor has coasod workiuf^', lill it up, and at last pnt into the hoKwhoad ten new-luid eggs; stop it up close, and in two years the mum wiU be lit for use. Mush of Indian Corn.—A rocipo for this wholesonie dish is given by William Cobbett, in his " Treatise on Cobbett's Corn." " You put," ho says, " some water or milk into a pot, and bring it to boil; you then let the (lour or meal out of ono hand gently into the milk or water, keeping stirring with the other, until you have got it into a pretty stiff state; after which you lot it stand ten minutes or a quarter of an hoiu-, or less, or even only one minute, and then take it out, and put it into a dish or bowl. This sort of half pudding, half porridge, you eat either hot or cold, with a little salt, or without it. It is frequently eaten unaccom- panied with any liquid matter ; but the general way is to have a porringer of milk, and, taking off a lump of the mush and putting it into the milk, you take up a spoonful at a time, having a little milk along with it; and this is called mush and milk." Mushrooms.—Of the mushrooms gene- rally oaten in England, and which may be pai-taken of with impunity, the chief is the common mushi'oom [Agaricus campcstris). " When eaten," says Dr. ' Lancaster, " this mushi'oom should be fresh gathered, as after keeping it acquires properties that render it liable to disagree. The Agarictis campestris may, however, be dried quickly, and kept wholesome for any length of time, or they may be powdered and thus kept. When salted fresh and pressed they yield the sauce known by the name of 'ketchup,' or 'catsup.' The mushroom gives a fine flavour to soups, and greatly improves beef-tea. When arrowroot and weak broths are distasteful to persons with delicate stomachs, a little seasoning with ketchup will generally form an agreeable change." The mushroom itself may be cooked in a variety of ways. Some roast them, basting them with melted butter, and serve with white wine sauce. They may be made into patties and added to fricassees. In France they steep them in oil, adding salt, pepper, and a little garlic; they are then tossed up in. a small stewpan over a brisk fire, ^vith chopped parsley and a little lenion-juice. The morel is occasionally found in Great Britain. In the opinion of fungus-eaters it is a great luxury. It is prepared in the same way as the common mushroom, but its flavour is more delicate. Ordinarily it is obtained from our Italian warehouses, but, if sought for about the Vjeginning of summer, it may not un- frcquently be found in our orchards and woods. Another fungus met with in English markets is the truffle. It is more uncommon in this country than the morel, but it is imported in considerable quantities from France. Truffles grow entirely imdorground, and tmflle-hunting dogs, and even swine, are trained to discover them. They impart a fine flavour to soups and gravies, and enter into the composition of Htufliiig for boars' heads, fish, and other kinds of animal food. In his valuable; work on the " Esculent Funguses of England," Dr. Badham remarks of the odours and tastfjs of mushrooms tliat both one and the other are far more numerous in this (tase of pLint than in any other with which we are acqiminted. Some of them give out ])owerfully disagreeable odours, whilst oth(;rs yield the; most agi-oeable of perfumes. The authority just mentioned enu- merates no fewer than forty-eight species of mushroom, all of which are good to eat. The great objection, however, to mushrooms, is MUSHROOMS. that some of them are very poisonous ; and mis- takes occur so often that only persons skilled in distinguishing the various species ought to be trusted for administering them indis- criminately as food. On the Continent pei-sons are specially appointed to examine all fungi sent to market, so that only those which are safe to eat are allowed to be sold. According to Dr. Badham, the majority of fungi are harmless, but his a«coimt of the poisonous eifects of the minority, and the post-mortem appearance of the organs of those who have died through partaking of them, are enough to alaiTTi the most stout-hearted. Mushrooms (Antidote to poisonous fimgi). —" All fimgi should be used with caution, for even the champignon, and edible garden mushrooms, possess deleterious qualities, when grown in certain jilaces. All the edible species should be thoroughly masticated before being taken into the stomach, as this greatly lessens the effect of poisons. "WTien accidents of this sort happen, vomiting should be immediately excited, and then the vegetable acids .should be given—either vinegar, lemon-juice, or that of apples ; after which, give ether and anti-spas- modic remedies, to stop the excessive bilious vomiting. Infusions of gall-nut. oak-bark, and Peruvian bark are recommended as capable of neutralising the poisonous principle of mushrooms. It is, however, the safest wav not to eat any of the good but kss common kinds until they have been soaked in vinegar. Spirit( 433 ) MUS MITS of wine and Aanegar extrac t some part of their poison, and taunin matter decomposes the gi-eatest part of it." (JSotanisfs Companion). In Pohmd and Russia there iue above thirty edible sorts of fungi in common use among the peasantry. They ai-e gathered in all the diiferent stages of their growtli, and used in various ways—raw, boiled, stewed, roasted; and, being hung up and dried in their stoves or chiiuneys, fonn a piui of their winter stock of provisions. Mushrooms (a la Bordelais). — Proceed in all respects as for gi-illed mushrooms, but servo with a sauce of oil or melted butter, in which are minced young onions, parsley, and a little garlic ; or serve with a sauce made by boiling the trimmings of the mushrooms in good brown gravy, seasoned with cayenne pepper and salt, and thickened with the yolks of eggs. Time to broil, about twelve minutes ; to bake, fifteen to twenty minutes. Mushrooms (ti la Casse-tout). — This mode of cooking mushrooms is borrowed from the French, as its name implies. Their hearth fires are particularly adapted for it. Place a baking tin on the hotheai-th, on which lay toast well buttered; cover with mushrooms, carefully cleaned, keeping the cup side uppermost, and placing upon each mushroom a bit of butter, and a seasoning of pepper and salt. Medium- sized flap mushrooms do best for this dish; they should be freshly gathered. A glass is some- times fixed closely over the mushrooms, but for cooking mushrooms in any quantity, an earthenware cover, with a flat top, to allow of the wood-embers being placed around and on it, is used. Serve on a hot dish. Time, ten to twelve minutes. Mushrooms (au Buerre). — Trim the stems, and rub two pints of button mushrooms with flannel dipped in salt. Put them in a stew- pan with three or four ounces of good butter, slightly browned, and stir them very gently, to get the butter well about them. Shake the pan over a moderate fire, that the mushrooms may not settle at the bottom. When they have well imbibed the butter, add a little poimded mace, salt, and cayenne, and cover closely by the side of the fire, to simmer until tender, when they Avill be found excellent without any other addition. Serve them hot on toast at breakfast or luncheon. If to be eaten cold, drain them from the butter, which may be used as flavour- ing for other dishes, and put them in a cool place, to he served next daj', but they will keep for several days. When mushrooms are plentiful, they may be kept thus prepared many weeks, in pots, with a little clarified butter run over the top to exclude the air. Warm up when required. Time, about twenty to twenty-five minutes altogether. Mushrooms (an Gratin). — Skin, wash, drain, and wipe dry some freshly-gathered flap mu.Mhrooms. Cut the stems to within a quarter of an inch, and fill the cup with the following seasoning :—Grated ham or bacon (rather fat), two ounces, shred shallot, half an ounce, a small Inmch of chopped i)arHloy, some th^me, a little powdered mace, and pepper and salt. Simmer the seasoning for five minutes in a little butter, and add the yolks of two eggs. Stand the mushrooms, well dredged ^^'ith browned crumbs (raspings), into a flat baking-dish, which should be well smeared with butter, and bake in a moderate oven. When done serve piled on a hot dish, with some brown sauce around the mushrooms. Time, about fifteen minutes to bake. Probable cost, according to season. Mushrooms and Eggs {see Eggs and Mushrooms). Mushrooms, Baked or Broiled.—For either mode of cooking the flaps are best. We give the preference to baked mushrooms, because the whole of the juice is preser^'ed. Flap mushi-ooms should be washed and dried, and the tops peeled. Put them, without the stems, into a tin baking-dish, season with pepper, salt, and a veiy little pounded mace, if liked. Small bits of butter laid over the top will, with the juice that flows from them, be the only sauce required. Button mushrooms are best for stewing, pickling, or polling. Broiled mushrooms should be served on a hot dish, with a small piece of butter on each, and a few drops of lemon-juice squeezed over. Time, twenty minutes to bake, ten to twelve to broU. The probable cost will be Id. each. Sufficient, foui" medium-sized mushrooms to each person. {See also IMushrooms, Grilled.) Mushrooms, Buttered {see Buttered Mushi'ooms). Mushrooms, Dry.—Mushrooms prepared in this way will be found useful when fresh ones are not to be had. They ai'e prepared precisely like powdered mushrooms {see Mush- rooms, Powdered), but button mushrooms and just-opened ones do best. Do not draw their juice, but place them at once into a slow oven on white thick paper. They \vill shrink, and lose their round appearance, but if carefully done, and not burnt, they will be found ex- cellent for hashes, &c. They need only be put into the gravy when cold, and warmed iip, to swell to nearly their original size. Keep them in brown-paper bags hung near- the fire. Mushrooms, Edible and Poisonous, To distinguish.—Dr. Christison gives the following directions for distinguishing the es- culent from the poisonous varieties of fungi :— "It appears that most fungi which have a warty cap, more especially fragments of mem- brane adhering to their upper surface, are poisonous. Heavy fungi, which have an unpleasant odour, especially if they emerge from a vulva, or bag, are also generally hurtful. Those which grow in woods and shady places are rarely esculent, but most are unwholesome; and if they are moist on the surface they should be avoided. All those which grow in tufts or clusters from the trunks and stiunps of trees ought likewise to be shunned. A sure teat of a poisonous fungus is an astringent stryptic taste, and perhaps also a di.sagreeable but certainly a pungent odour. Those the sub- stance of which become blue soon after being cut, are invariably poisonous. Agarics, of an orange or rose red colour, and boleti, which are coriaceous, or corky in texture, or which haveMUS MUS ( *34 ) a membranous collar round the stem, are also unsafe. These rules for knowing deleterious fungi seem to rest on fact and experience, but they will not enable the collector to recognise every poisonous species." The general rules laid down for distinguishing wholesome fungi ai-e not so well founded, but the most simple and easy mode of testing the quality of field fungi, according to Mr. C. W. Johnson, is to introduce a silver spoon, or piece of coin of that metal, or an onion, into the > essel in which mushrooms are seething : if on iking either of them out they assume a bluish-black or dark discoloured appearance, there are certainly some dangerous fungi among them ; if, on the other hand, the metal or onion on being withdrawn from the liquor wears its natural appearance, the fungi may be regarded as wholesome and innoxious. Mushrooms, Porcemeat of. — Put a lump of butter into a stewpan, in which stew some button mushrooms, or some small newly-opened ones, previously peeled, and with part of the stalk taken ott". Season with cayenne, a little powdered mace, and salt. In about six or seven minutes, when they have been well tossed in the pan, put them on a dish set sloping to drain off the butter, and when cold, have ready a quarter of a pound of fine bread-crumbs; mix these with a quarter of a pound of the mush- rooms finely minced ; add a very little mace and nutmeg, a tea-spoonful of grated lemon-peel, and more salt or cayenne, if necessary, but the flavour of the mushrooms should predominate, and too much seasoning would destroy it. Moisten with some of the butter in which they were stewed, and break up small an oimce and a half of fresh butter. Bind the mixture with the yolks of two eggs, pound all in a mortar, and make into balls, to be used for soup, or fried and served with roast fowls, or roimd minced veal. Boiled fowls should have some of the forcemeat put inside. Mushrooms, Forcemeat of (another Mv&j).—See Forcemeat of Mushi-ooms. Mushrooms for Garnish. — Take fresh-gathered button mushi-ooms, cut off the stems, and wash them in a little cold water, then drain. Have ready squeezed the juice of half a lemon, put it with a small cup of cold water into an enamelled stewpan, into which throw each mushroom as it is peeled; add an ounce of butter and a little salt. Place the stewpan over the fire, bring it quickly to a boil, and, in five minutes, use the mushrooms as required. A good cook will know how to utilise the stems and peel of the mushrooms. In this case they may be chopped small and stewed in the gravy left after boiling the buttons. These trimmings axe useful for flavouring dishes or soups. Mushrooms for Garnish (another v^ray).—.See G-amish, Mushrooms for. Mushrooms, Grilled.—Cut the stalks, peel, and score hghtly the underside of large mushroom flaps, which should be firm, and fresh gathered. Sejison them with pepper and salt, and steep them in a marinade of oil or melted butter. If quite sound, they may be laid on a gridiron, over a slow, even fire, and grilled on both sides, but they are best done in the oven if at all bruised. Either way, serve with a sauce of melted butter, or on a hot dish, with a piece of butter on each mushroom, and a squeeze of lemon-juice. Time, about twelve minates to gi'ill; forty minutes to steep in marinade. Sufiicient, one large mushroom for each person. Mushroom Ketchup.—Mushroom ket- chup is more highly esteemed and more gene- rally useful than any other. It is best when made of the large mushroom flaps, fully ripe, fresh, and perfectly dry—that is, gathered during dry weather. If this point is not at- tended to, the ketchup will not keep. Do not wash nor skin the mushrooms, but carefully remove any decayed, dirty, or worm-eaten por- tions ; cut off about half an inch from the end of the stalks, then break the rest into small pieces, put them into an earthen jar, and strew three-quarters of a pound of salt amongst two gallons of mushrooms, scattering the larger portion over the top. Let them remain all night, and the next day stir them gently wth a wooden spoon, and repeat this three times a day for two days. At the end of that time put the jar into a cool oven for half an hour, then strain the hquid which flows from them through a coarse cloth, and let it boil for a quarter of an hour. Do not squeeze the mush- rooms. To every quart of the liquid put a quarter of an ounce each of Jamaica pepper and black pepper, and a drachm of mace. Boil again until the quantity is reduced one-half. Pour it out, and let it stand until cool, then put it into perfectly dry bottles, being careful to leave the sediment, which will have settled at the bottom, undisturbed. Resin the corks, or tie bladder over them, and keep in a cool, dry place. The liquid will have a better appearance if it is strained through a tamis after being poured from the sediment. If liked, two or three drops of brandy may be put into each pint of ketchup. It is well to use small bottles, so that the liquid may not be long kept after it has been exposed to the air. Probable cost of mush- rooms, variable. Mushroom Ketchup (another way).— Proceed as before directed, but let the mush- rooms stand twelve hours only, warming them over the fire to extract the juice. Strain the whole through a sieve, and boil and skim the liquor, adding to each quart, when clear, equal quantities of ginger, black peppercorns, and allspice, about one and a half ounces in aU, two small blades of mace, and five or six cloves. The mushrooms may be pressed dry after the juice has been strained from them: the juice may be used for flavouring hashes, or any dish where great delicacy is not required. Time, five minutes to boil without spice, fifteen minutes with. Mushroom Ketchup (another way).— Prepare the mushrooms ana salt them as in the last recipe. Let them stand twelve hours, then work them well with the fingers, and leave them again for thirty-six hours, stirring them occa- sionally with a wooden spoon. At the end of that time measure them into an earthen jar.MUS MUS ( 436 ) and with each qiiart put half an ounce of all- Bpice, thi-ee-quai-ters of an ounce of black pepper, and three-quarters of an ounce of Jamaica pepper. Cover the jar closely, set it in a pan of boiling water, and let it boil gently for fully two hours. Take it out, let it stand until cool, then pour off the juice into a clean pan, as clear as possible, and boil the liquid for half an hour. Skim it thoroughly, and put it into a jar. When quite cold, poui-it thi-ough a jeUy-bag imtil it is bright and clear. It must be poured gently, so as not to disturb the sediment. Put a tea-spoonful of brandy with each half-pint of liquor, and pour it into small bottles. Cork these securely, and either tie a piece of bladder over them or resin the corks, and keep the ket- chup in a cool, diy place. When pouring the juice fi-om the mushi-ooms do not squeeze them, or the liquid will look thick and muddy The refuse need not be wasted, for after a common ketchup has been made from it, it can be dried and used for mushroom powder {see Mushrooms, Powdered). Probable cost of mushrooms, vari- able. Sufficient, a table-spoonful of ketchup to haK a pint of sauce. Mushroom Ketch.up (another way).— Gather large tiap mushrooms for this purpose in the month of September. If the weather be showery, wait until the mushrooms have had a few hours of sunshine, for no water should enter into the composition of ketchup. Break into an earthenware jjan as many mushrooms as it will hold. Let them be clean, and quite free from grit or dirt, and that portion of the stem should be removed to which the soil adheres. Sprinkle salt among them, and put a layer over the top (from six to eight ounces will be enough for a peck of mushrooms). Cover them for two days, occa- sionally stirring them during the time, then strain thi'ough a sieve without giving the mush- rooms any pressure. To each quart of the juice so gained, allow three blades of mace, half an ounce of black peppercorns, the same of sliced ginger, with half the quantity of allspice, a few cloves, and more salt if required. Boil the juice for fifteen minutes, uncovered, and before putting in the spice; add the spice, and boil twenty minutes more. FiU bottles when quite cold. Wax the corks to exclude the air. Mushroom Ketchup, Common. — Mince a shallot very finely. Put it into three- quarters of a pint of mushroom ketchup, and simmer gently for five or six minutes; then add one table-spoonful of chilli vinegar, and a quarter of a pint of walnut pickle. Boil for ten minutes, and when cold pour the ketchup into small bottles, cork securely, and store in a cool, dry place. Sufficient to make one pint of ketchup. Mushroom Ketchup, Common (another way).—After the clear juice has been poured from the mushrooms, put the remainder into a saucepan, and warm them on the tire. Afterwards press the mushrooms through a tamis until every particle of juice has been extracted. Strain the liquid, boil it for five minutes, then with each pint put a cupful of strong beer, half a blade of mace, a quarter of an ounce of ginger, three cloves, and a quarter of an ounce of allspice. Simmer gently for about fifteen minutes, and when cold bottle for use, with the spices equally divided. Suf- ficient, a table-spoonful will fully flavour half a pint of thickened sauce or gravy. Mushrooms, Oyster Patties with (see Oysters, Patties of, with Mushrooms). Mushrooms, Pickled. — Take button mushrooms, as nearly as possible of the same size (small ones are best) and freshly gathered. Cut off the stalks, and rub away the outer skin with a piece of new flannel and some fine salt. Einse them in salted spring water, drain quickly, and dry in a soft cloth until no moisture hangs about them. Boil together spice and vinegar in proportion to the mush- rooms to be pickled, allowing nearly a quart of vinegar to a quart of the buttons, and with one quart of the best white wine vinegar put three small blades of mace, an ounce of crushed ginger, half the quantity of white peppercorns, and a small pinch of cayenne. When the pickle boils put in the mushrooms, and continue the boiling until they are rather soft, which will be in from eight to ten minutes, according to their size. Fill jars, or large-mouthed bottles, and distribute the spice as equally as possible in them. "When cold, tie dovni se- curely with bladder, and remove to a diy place. Field mushrooms arp much to be preferred to those artificially raised. Mushrooms Pickled in Brine.—Pre- pare button mushrooms precisely as dh-ected in the preceding recipe, but make a brine as fol- lows :—Boil together two quarts of water, eight ounces of salt, three small blades of mace, an ounce or more of bruised ginger, and the same of whole white pepper. Skim while boiling, add the prepared mushroom buttons, and boil slowly for a few minutes. Fill well-dried bottles while the mushrooms are still hot, and when quite cold cork the bottles, and tie down with skin. A small quantity of salad-oil poured on the top of each bottle will effectually preserve the contents. Mushrooms, Pickled, Sauce of.—To half a pint of brown gravy aad a table-spoonful of good mushroom ketchup, some pickled mush- rooms, and a little of their liquor. Put the above ingredients into a saucepan, set it over the fire, and stir in an ounce and a half of butter, blended with a tea-spoonful of flour. It should not boil, but when thick, like smooth cream, serve over roast or broiled fowls. Time, about ten minutes. Mushrooms, Powdered.—Get large mushrooms, but remove the brown end and the outside skin, and see that they are quite free from grit and dirt. Put them into a stewpan with a couple of onions, each stuck with six cloves, two blades of mace, some white pepper, and salt. Place them by the side of the fire to heat gradually, and draw their juice, then shake the pan over a clear fire until the moisture has dried up; this must be done briskly, or the mushrooms will get burnt and useless. Dry them in a cool ovcu; they will require to be put in several times, until they can be reduced( 436 ) MUS MUS to a fine powder. Fill quite dry bottles, and keep iu a dry place, the bottles to be corked and sealed. Sufficient for a gallon. Mushroom Sauoe for Chicken Chicken, Mushroom Sauce for). Mushroom Sauoe, Fowl, Boiled, with {"ft: Fowl, Hoilcd, &(•.). Mushrooms, Sauce of, Brown.^But- ton or flap nmshrooma may bo used for this sauce. Thoy should bo rinsed in cold water, drained, and dried in a soft cloth, and, if flap ones, cut into pieces. Simmer the mushrooms, without stalks, in half a pint of beef gravy, add a little muslu'oom ketchup, and an ounce of butter, blended with floui-. If liked, flavour with lemon-peel, and squeeze in some of the juice before serving. Time, twenty to twenty- five minutes. Mushrooms, Sauce of, White.—To preserve the colour of this sauce see that the mushrooms are well cleansed from the soil that hangs about them, and drop them, first re- moving the outer sldn by moans of salt, into a bowl of water and lemon-juice. Drain, -wipe dry, and chop them finely, without the stalks. Put them with an ounce of butter into a stew- pan to simmer until tender, but do not let the butter get colour. Add half a pint of bechamel sauce, and sinuner a few minutes longer, when tlie sauce should be rubbed through a fine sieve. Serve hot. When required to be warmed, place it into a vessel of boiling water. Serve poured over boiled fowls. Time, fifteen minutes altogether. Sufficient, one pint of mushrooms for half a pint of sauce. Mushroom Toast.—Stew over a gentle fire a quart of nicely-prepared mushrooms (just opened ones), first dissohing three ounces of butter in the stewpan, and seasoning the mushrooms with white pepper or cayenne, a salt-spoonful of mace, powdered; stir them oarefuUy, and toss them in the pan to prevent burning, and until the butter is dried and slightly broAvn, when add half a pint of thin cream, the grated rind of half a lemon, and a little salt, and stew until the mushrooms are tender. Beef-gravy- may be substituted for the cream, and the grated lemon-peel omitted. Serve on buttered bread, fried or grilled, which should be thick enough to allow of the inside being scooped out. Serv^e hot, and squeeze the juice of a lemon over. Time, fifteen minutes "to stew in butter; five minutes in gravy. Mussels.—Mussels are cheap and full of flavour. They may be used with advantage instead of oysters for fish sauces and stews. Many people are afraid of them, thinking they are poisonous, but they are wholesome enough if well washed, and if the piece of weed, and also a small crab often found inside, are removed before serving. Thoy should bo avoided in those months which have not u in the names. Mussels, la Pouhitte).—Prepare the mussels according to the directions given for Mussels, Boiled. Strain the liquor, beard the niuHsols, and dip thorn in plenty of hot water, then put thorn on a soft cloth to drain. Mako a sauce as follows :-Blend together an ouuco of butter with an equal quantity of flour, and stir it oyer a slow lire for a minute or two, then moisti'U with the strained liquor, and add two (lessort-spoonfulH of chopped parsley, pre- yicjusly si^ilded. 'J'uke it off the tire, and stir in the bwiten yolks of two eggs and another ])ieco of butter, about half an oum^i. I'ut the mussels on a dish in their shells, detached, and jjour the suuce over. Mussels and Rice.—Cleanse the shells in the usual way. lloil the mussels and re- move the beards. Stniin their liquor for use. Pick, wash, and soak thirteen ounces of rice, and boil as for curry. When ready, season with pepper, siilt, nutmeg, and add an ounc« and a half of butter, with a little of the musstd liquor and the fish, which should be aU wanned together, or warm up the mussels for the centre of a dish, and place the rice round as a border. Time, fifteen to twenty-five minutes to boil rice. Mussels, Boiled.—Brush the shells thoroughly, and wash the mussels in several waters, in order that they may be entirely free from grit. Put them into a deep sauce- pan (without water) and sprinkle a little salt over them. Spread a napkin upon them in the saucepan, put the lid on, and scald them over a sharp fire. Shake them about briskly, in order to keep them from burning. As soon as the shells open, take the sauce- pan ofl: the fire, strain the liquor into a bowl, and take out the fish. Very carefully remove the little piece of weed which is found under the black tongue. If the mussels are left too long on the fire they will become leathery. Mussels, Fried.—Cleanse and boil in the usual way, but when bearded lay them out to drain on a soft cloth. Make a thick batter with two eggs, their liquor, an ounce of butter, and as much flour as •will be required; season with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and a little grated lemon-peel and minced parslej'. Thicken this batter over a slow fire, pour it when quite smooth and thick into a basin, and with a fork dip each mussel into it, and when well covered place each one on a board to get cold and harden, when they should be rolled in fine bread-crumbs, and fried in boiling lard to a light brown. Serve, arranged high in the centre of a dish, with parsley as a garnish, or as a garnish for fried or boiled fish. Time, five or six minutes to fry. Mussels, Ketchup of.—"SVhen carefully prepared and cooked, mussels make a variety of wholesome and agreeable dishes. The shells must be first cleansed by repeated washing and brushing, and afterwards be well rinsed in a colander until the drippings are quite clear. Put them into a large iron saucepan with only the water that hangs upon the shells. Cover closely, and shake the mussels while heating to expedite their opening. As soonas this is aocom- plishod (they will be hard and indigestible if koi)t over the fire too long), turn them into a clean eartlien pan, b(>ard them, and nMuovc tlio weed, crab, and black part. Take a ]iint and half of carefully«picked mussels, md jiouud thero in aMUS MUS ( 437 ) mortar, then boil with a pint of made wine or cidor, and a full pint of the juice that flowed from the mussels when boiled, a drachm of cayenne, and two drachms of powdered mace. When suflicienily boUed and skimmed, strain through a hair sieve. Bottle when cold, and Bee that the bottles are sealed as well as corked. Mussels, Pickled.—Cleanse and prepare as before diiected. BoU until the shell opens, but no longer. Reserve theii- juice and the water from the boiling. To this liquor mix in vinegar equal quantities of mace, whole pepper, and whole allspice. Boil together for five minutes, and throw the liquid cold over the mussels. Add salt if required. The mussels may be eaten at once, but will keep corked tightly for many days. Mussels, Ragout of.—Cleanse the shells, and boil the mussels as before directed {see Mussels, Ketchup of). When bearded put them into a basin and the juice which flows from them into another. Dissolve a lump of butter in a stewpan, mince some pai'sley, button mushrooms, and shallots, if liked. Stew them in the butter with a seasoning of mace, pepper, and salt, if required (though this last must be used spar- ingly); moistenwththe liquor, and some gravy; if it be not enough, thicken with flour, and put in the mussels to get hot thi-ough, but do not let them boU. Time, a quarter of an hour. Mussels, Sauce of.—Clean, boil, and beard the mussels as before directed, (see Mussels, Boiled), put them with their juice into a stewpan, season with cayenne and salt, and let them heat slowly, but do not let them boil. Stir in rich melted butter or thick cream until the sauce is of the proper consistency. A des- sert-spoonful of vinegar may be added. Strain the juice of the mussels through a piece of muslin. Mussels, Scalloped.—Cleanse the shells as before directed (.see Mussels, Ketchup of). Beard the mussels when boiled, and reserve the juice that flows from them; strain it through muslin. Butter some scallop-shells or patty-pans, and have ready finely-prepared bread-crumbs, seasoned with cayenne, and a little white pepper and salt. Strew some of the crumbs over the bottom of the patty-pans or shells, and lay mussels over them; cover wth the seasoned bread-crumbs and bits of butter, con- tinuing until mussels and crumbs are used up. Moisten with the reserved liquor, and run a little oiled butter over the top. Brown in the oven, and serve hot. Time, a quarter of an hour. Mussels, Soup of.—The basis of this soup ni;iy be either a fish or meat stock. Take half the quantity of stock required for the soup, mix with it a pint of pounded mussels, pre- viously boiled and the beards taken off. Pound also in a mortar the hard-boiled volks of three eggs, with a lump of butter, a Uttle mace, ca- yenne, and salt; boil for thirty minutes, then strain. Add the remainder of the stock, and simmer for a few minutes longer. Put in another pint of mu8»(3lH, and make hot but do not let the soup boil. Serve with toastisd sippets. If liked, the recipes for Oyster Soup may be followed, mussels being used instead of oysters. Mussels, Stewed.—Take some carefully- prepared mussels, put them into a saucepan with as much of their liquor, strained and pre- viously boiled with a blade of mace, as will be requii-ed to cover them. Let them stew gently, and just before boiling add a thickening of butter and flour blended together. Serve on hot toast. Time, eight to ten minutes to stew. Mustapha Ketchup. — Procure from the butcher a fresh, sound ox-liver; rub it with salt that has been rolled until fine, that the liver may not get bruised. Lay, it into an earthenware tongue-pan, with salt under and over, and rub and turn the liver each day for a week or ten days. Take it from the pickle, wipe dry, and mince it small. Boil in four quarts of water until reduced to about three quarts, then strain through a sieve, and let it get cold. Pour it next day into a sauce- pan, keeping back the sediment; add two ounces of whole black pepper, an ounce each of allspice and ginger, and boil very gently, until reduced to about half the quantity. Allow about a pound and a half of salt. Mustard.—Of mustard, two sorts are cultivated, the black and the white. Both are annuals and natives of Britain. The fonner is cultivated chiefly as a small salad, and is used, like cress, while in the seed-leaves. These are mild and tender when newly expanded, but when the plant has advanced into the rough leaves, they are rank and disagreeable to eat. For spring and smnmer consumption white mustard should be sown once a week, or once a fortnight—in dry, warm situations in February and March, and afterwards in any other compartment. In summer sow in shady borders, if the weather be hot and sunny, or have the bed shaded. To furnish gatherings in winter, or early in spring, sow in frames, or under hand-glasses ; and when the weather is frosty or very cold, in hot-beds and stoves. "Black mustard," says Mr. Loudon, "it chiefly cultivated in fields for the mill and foi medicinal purposes. It is sometimes, however, sown in gardens, and the tender leaves are use^ as greens early in spring. The seed-leaves, in common with those of the cress, radish, rape, &c., are sometimes used as salad ingredients; but the grand purpose for which the plant is cultivated is for seeds, which, ground, produce the well-known condiment. If the seeds. Dr. Cullen observes, be taken fresh from the plant, and ground, the powder has little pungency, but is very bitter; by steeping in vinegar, however, the essential oil is evolved, and the powder becomes extremely pungent. In moistening mustard-seed for the table, it may be remarked that it makes the best appearance when rich milk is used; but the mixture in this case docs not keep good for more than two days. The seeds of both the black and white mustard are often used in an entii-c state medicinally." For salading, mustard is sown in flat-bottomed drills, fibout an inch deep, and six inches apart. Tlie seed cannot well be sown too( 438 ) MTTT? MTJS thick. Creaa ulmost invui-iubly accompunios this aalad horb. Mustard and Cress for Breakfast. —Tho crcsa is un exuoodiiigly wliolesomo horb, which from ita pungent quality promotoa and aasiats diguation. It ia generally aorvud in Iho centre of a dish, surroundiid with white and red radishes. Wo would reconuueud, for weak digestions the eresa without tlio accompani- ment. Put a anmll saltcellar in tho centre of a plate, and serve the cress around it. Mustard, Indian {see Indian Mustai-d). Mustard, Mixing of. — It should be made witli boiling water, and only in sufficient quantity to last a day or two at most; if kept longer, the top of the mustard-pot should be fitted with a glass stopper, but fresh-made mustard is preferable. Put a little salt before mixing, and rub it quite smooth with the back of a spoon. Foreign mustard is to be had of any respectable grocer, but a particular flavour may be given to mustard by moistening with shallot, tarragon, garlic, or any spiced vinegar, instead of water. Mustard Sauce.—Blend together on a plate thi-ee ounces of butter with a dessert- spoonful of browned flour, half the quantity of the best Durham mustard, and a little salt. Stir these ingredients, when smoothly mixed, into a quarter of a pint of boiling water, and simmer five minutes. Add enough vinegar to flavour, and serve as a sauce for fresh heriings. Mustard, Tartar.—Moisten, with equal quantities of horseradish and chilli vinegar, a quarter of a pound of the best mustard, to which a tea-spoonful of salt has been mixed. Add the liquids gradually, and rub -vnth. the back of a spoon until smooth. Less chilli vinegar, and a little tarragon, if approved, will make an excellent mustard; or more horse- radish vinegar may be used, while the other vinegar is diminished in quantity. Sufficient, a quarter of a pint of vinegar. Mutton.—This is the flesh of the sheep. The best mutton, and that from which most nourishment is obtained, is that of sheep of from three to six years old, and which have been fed on dry sweet pastures. The flesh of sheep which have been reared on salt marshes, or on farms near the sea-coast, is also sweet and wholesome; the saline pai-ticles abounding in 3uch situations imparts both firmness and a fine flavour. To suit the palate of an epicure, a sheep should never be killed earlier than ils fifth year, at which age the mutton ^^^ll be foimd firm and succulent, dark-coloured, and fiill of the richest gi-avy. Mutton of two years old is flabby, pale, and savourless. To ascertain the age of mutton the following directions may bo given:—Observe the colours of the breast- bone when a sheep is dressed, that is, where the breastbone is separated. In a lamb, or before the sheep is one year old, it will be quite red ; from one to two years old, the upper and lower bones will be changing to white, and a small circle of white will appear round tho edge of the other bones, and the mirtdle part of the breastbone will yet continue red; at three years old, a very small streak of white will be seen in the middle of the four middle bones, and the others will Ijo white ; and at four years old, all the broastbonea will be of a white or gristly cohjur. The live weight with the offal of a largo fat weddor, and tho joints when cut up for market, are about as follows :— r. . , at. 11*. Liive weight . . .13 IbB. Jilood and entrails , . .13 Caul and loose fat. . . .21 Head and pluck ... 8 Pelt 15 Carcattn. First fore-quarter . . . .29 Second „ .... 28 First hind-quai-ter . . . ;j3 Second „ .... 32 Joints of one side. Haunch Loin Neck Shoulder Breast . Loss 10 oz. 0 4 12 12 0 12 8 0 23 10 12 10 4 0 0 4 0 12 8 12 Mutton (InvalidCookery) Whenmutton is tender it is the meat best adapted for invalida and persons whose digestive organs are not of the strongest. The best and most nourishing cutlets are those cut out of the centre of the leg. Mutton, Australian, and Stewed Carrots {see Australian Mutton, &c.). Mutton, A-ustralian, Boiled, and Caper Sauce {see Australian Mutton, &c.). Mutton, Breast of. Boiled.—Take out the bones, gristle, and some of the fat; flatten it on the pasteboard, and cover the surface thinly with a forcemeat composed of bread- crumbs, minced savoury herbs, a Httle chopped parsley, pepper, salt, and an egg, to bind. The forcemeat should not be spread too near the edge, and when roUed, the breaat should be tied securely, to keep the forcemeat in its place. If gently boiled, and sent to table hot, and smothered with good caper sauce, it will bo generally liked. Time, two hours to boil. Pro- bable cost, 8d. per pound. Mutton, Breast of. To Collar.—Skin the breast, and free it entirely from bone and gristle. When flat on the board, cover it with beaten egg, and have ready a forcemeat com- posed of the following ingredients :—A large cupful of bread-crumbs, some chopped parsley, a blade of poimded mace, two cloves, the peel of half a lemon, chopped as small as possible, a couple of anchovies, and the yolks of three or four hard-boiled eggs. Mix and pound in a mortar, adding pepper and salt to taste. Cover the breast with the forcemeat, roll it firmly, tie with tape, and put it into a stewpan with boiling water, and simmer gently until tender, or bake, if preferred. To boil, two hours; to bake, twenty minutes to the pound. Probable cost, 7d. to 8d. per poimd. Suffi- cient for four or five persons. Mutton, Breast of, with Peas. —Cut about two pounds of the breast of mutton intoMtTT MTJT ( 439 ) rather small square pieces. Put them into a stewpan with about an ounce of butter, and brown them nic«ly, then cover with weak broth or water, and stew for an hour. Remove the meat from the stewpan, and clear the gravy from fat. Put the meat into a clean stewpan, add an onion or shallot, sliced finely, a bunch of sweet herbs, some pepper and salt, and strain the gravy over all. Stew for another hour, when put in a quart of young peas, and in about fifteen minutes serve. Macaroni may be put in the place of peas. Probable cost, 8d. per pound. Mutton Broth. — Lean meat is best for broth; from two to three pounds of the sci-ag end of the neck is suited to the purpose, and if for a plain broth, not requiring much strength, allow a quart of water to each pound of meat. Put quite cold water on the meat, and set it over a slow fire to heat gradually. Simmer gently, and remove the scum. When no more scum is to be seen, and the meat is sufficiently done to be eaten, it may be removed for the family dinner, and any addition to the broth made. Pearl barley, rice, or oatmeal, with a carrot, a turnip, an onion or leek, may be added, the vegetables being cut neatly. Season to taste. Warm up the meat, and serve in a separate dish, or with the broth. Pearl barley should be boiled separately for a few minutes, and then strained, and boiled with the broth. Time to simmer meat, an hour and a half. Sufficient for two quarts of broth. Mutton Broth (Invalid Cookery).—Boil two pounds of the scrag end of a neck of mutton in about three pints of cold water, and if the patient can digest vegetables, it will be much improved by the addition of a little turnip, par- sley, finely minced, and onion. Put in the vege- tables when the broth boils, and simmer three hours, take off the scum as it rises. Strain, and let it grow cold, then take off the fat. If pearl barley be added, it should be boiled as long as the meat, and before being put with it should be boiled in water for ten minutes, drained, and afterwards added to the broth. Veal may be boiled in the same manner; the knuckle is the part generally used for broth. Probable cost, 7d. Sufficient for a pint and a half to two pints. Mutton Broth, Mock.—Mix a table- spoonfid of oatmeal to a smooth batter with three table-spoonfuls of cold water, and stir to it a pint of boiling water. Pour this into a sauce- pan and boil, and stir for five minutes, adding, when as thick as required, a few drops of the essence of sweet herbs, a dessert-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and salt and pepper to taste. Mutton Broth, Nourishing and Delicate.—Take three pounds of the knuckle part of the leg of mutton, separate the shank- bone, that it may lie flat in the saucepan. Cover with cold water, and mix in a table-spoonful of Scotch barley, which should be kept stin-od until the water boils, then remove from tha fire to simmer, adding salt, and skimming the surface while any scum rises. Strain off the broth for use, and serve the mutton with the barloy round it. Time, three hours and a half to sLiuiuer. Mutton Broth, Quickly Made.—Cut two thick chops from the neck, but remove the bones and all fat. Cut the meat into dice, and put it into a stewpan with a pint of cold water; then scrape the bones, break them, and add them, with a very small onion, a sprig of parsley and thyme, and some pepper and salt, to the stew- pan. Brine: the water to the boil quickly, skim well, draw back, and simmer gently for twenty minutes, when the broth will be ready. Take off every particle of fat; this is much easier done when the broth is allowed to cool. It should be re-warmed by setting the basin into boiling water. Probable cost, Is. 2d. per pound. Mutton Broth, Scotch, in Summer. —Boil four pounds of lean mutton in four quarts of water, stir into it eight ounces of Scotch barley. Keep it well mixed until the water boils, and sldm the surface _ carefully while simmering as fast as the scum rises. Cut up a couple of carrots, a turnip, and an onion; add these, with a quart or more of green peas, a few sprigs of parsley, and a dessert-spoonful of pepper and salt, mixed. The vegetables should not be allowed to boil a longer time than is required to cook them. Scotch broth may be made of beef or veal. Time, two hours and a half altogether. Sufficient for three quarts. Mutton, Casserole of, Plain.—The remains of under-done leg of mutton cut into small neat slices, and seasoned appropriately, may be boiled in a basin with a lining of suet- crust, or in "plain casserole," which is in a mould thickly lined with mashed potatoes. The mould should be very well buttered, and when filled with the meat, moisten with some thick meat-gravy, and cover with more mashed potatoes. Turn out on a dish, and have ready some more gravy to serve with it. Bake for half an hour. Mutton Chops.—Take chops from the beet end of the neck, saw off about four inches from the top and the chinebones. Cut away the skin and gristle from the upper end of the bone, which will give the cutlet a round, plump appearance. Sprinkle each chop with salt and pepper, and dip them separately into dissolved butter. Strew with bread-crumbs, and broil over a clear slow fire, that the crumbs may not acquire too much colour; or, oil each chop slightly, and broil over a brisk fire. A trimmed mutton cutlet of five ounces in weight will require about six minutes to cook. Time, with bread-crumbs, seven or eight minutes. Mutton Chope la Soyer). — First select well-fed mutton, but not too fat, and get the chops evenly cut; if not, beat them into shape with the chopper. Not more than one-third of the chop should be fat. Put an ounce of buttor or lard into the frying-pan ; when it is entirely melted seize the chop at the bone end with a fork, and dip it for half a minute into the fat, then turn on one side, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and, if liked, finely-chopped shallot or onion, and savoury herbs. In three minutes tui-n, and serve the other side the Siime; equalise the cooking by frequent turning, but give the chop altogether not more than ten( 440 ) MTTT MUT minutes if thick, but loss if a thin one. A piiicti of giirlic, if the ilavour bo approved, iiuiy bo rubbed across the dish when hot, or it may bo rubbed lightly across the chop. Herve with plain or inuitre d'hotol butter. Probable cost, Is. 4d. per pound. Sutticient, one pound for two persons. Mutton Chops, Grilled.—Shred somo shallot or onion, and mince some savoury herbs; put these into a stewpan wth a lump of butter. Have ready-trimmed chops from the loin of mutton, dip each one separately into the dis- solved butter, and cover quickly with finely- prepared bread-crumbs, seasoned with pepper and salt. Broil on one side for throe minutes, then turn on the other. The tire should be slow and oven, that the bread-crumbs may not acquire too much colour; by turning them several times the cooking will bo equalised. Serve hot, with a bit of plain butter on the top of each chop. Probable cost. Is. per pound. Mutton Chops with Vegetables.— Where vegetables are to be had fresh from the garden, and in plenty, the following mode of cooking chops will be found economical, as well as wholesome and agreeable to the palate:—Fry the chops, having first trimmed them into good shape, in butter, untU half done, seasoning them with pepper and salt. Have ready by the time the chops arc fried any seasonable vege- tables—asparagus tops, peas, celery, carrots, turnips—all cut as nearly the same size as possible, and stewed in a little good white broth. Make a gravy with the butter in the pan, after frying a little shred onion, thicken it Vith flour, and add it and the chops to the stewpan with the vegetables. Shake them well together over the fire until they are quite done, and serve with the sauce over and about the chops. Time, twenty minutes. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Sufficient, two pounds for four persons. Mutton Collops.—Shred two or three shallots, a sprig or two of parsley, and a small bunch of savouiy herbs. Take a few thin slices from the leg or loin of mutton, as under- dressed as possible, and of equal sizes, sprinkle them with the chopped herbs, salt, pepper, and a little pounded mace; fry the collops slightly in butter, about two oimces, add a good cup of gravy, a piece of butter kneaded with a dessert- spoonful of flour, some chopped capers drained from their vinegar, or a little lomon-juice. Simmer for a few minutes, and serve quickly when done. Chopped gherkins may be uspd instead of capers. SufScient, one pound and a half of meat for four persons. Mutton (Cooked like Venison).—A fillet or neck of mutton, if prepared by being well hung (in cold weather, at least seven or eight days), and then steeped for a day or two in a mixture of vinegar and red wine, three or four bay- leaves, the same of shred ^^hallots, and half an ounce of black pepper and allspice, pounded and well rubbed into the meat before stooping, ^vill be found nearly equal to venison. WTien to bo cooked, it should be washed in wai-m water, wiped dry. and inclosed in a paste of flour and water, which should be removed a quarter of an hour before serving. Dredge lightly with flour, sprinkle with salt, and baste until of a light Itrown colour. Send good gravy to table in a tureen, seasoned only with salt, and unmoltod currant-jelly, on a plate. Mutton, Curried, Good.—Put four ounces of liuttor into a stewpan, and pound six nuddlo-sized onions in a mortar; add the onions to the butter with an ounce of curry powder, a tea-spoonful of salt, a dessert-spoonful of flour, and half a pint of cream. Stir until smooth. Fry two pounds of mutton, cut in neat pieass, without bone. Lot them be of a light brovm colour. Lay the mciit into a clean stewpan, and pour the curry mixture over. Simmer until the meat is done. Time, two hours to simmer. Probable cost. Is. per pound. Sufli- cient, two pounds for four or five persons. Mutton, Curried, Plain.—For a curry of cooked meat, cut the mutton into thin slices, or into dice, according to the quantity of meat to be curried. Put two ounces or more of but- ter into a stewpan, and two good-si^ed onions, chojiped. Stir the onions in the butter imtii of a pale brown, add an ounce of curry powder, and the same of flour, with a little salt; mix and stir for five minutes, moisten with a cup of stock, and stew gently for a few minutes longer. Put in the meat, and simmer until done, ljut do not let it boil. Servo with rice round the dish. * Mutton Cutlets (a la Maintenon).— Put a heaped table-spoonful of finely-chopped shallot into a pan with an ounce of fresh butter, and simmer them for five minutes. Add two table-spoonfuls of minced mushrooms and the same of chopped parsley, which should be first blanched and dried in a cloth; fry these and the shallot together for another five minutes, without burning them. Seapon with pepper and salt, and add some highly-flavoured meat- gravy. Have ready-trimmed mutton cutlets of two bones thick, the chinebone sawed off and one of the long ones removed. Split the meat carefully and neatly in two, nearly down to the bone, and insert some of the seasoning pre- viously prepared. Close the edges by folding the imder part of the cutlet over the upper, and broil on each side for five minxites, or imtil the meat is of a nice rich brown. Place the cutlets on a dish, and surround them with the sauce; pour the remainder over, and bake for about four minutes in a hot oven. There are other recipes for Cutlets a la Maintenon, but this one may certainly challenge comparison with any other, and it has besides the advantage of greater simplicity of preparation. Probable cost. Is. per pound. Sufiicient, a poimd and a half for two or more persons. Mutton Cutlets (a la IMinute).—The mutton for those cutlets should be ciit from the middle of the log, in the same direction as when carving for a dinner, but slice it rather thinner, •and season slightly with popper. Fta" the meat quickly over a brisk fire, to make it crisp, turn- ing it often. Let the cutlets be kept warm before the fire while the gi-avy is preparing. Have rciidy some nui.shrooms. chopjiod with fi shallot, a spiig or two of parsley and th\-moMtJT (441 ) minced fine. Stew those in the butter for a few minutes, and soiison with salt and more pepper, if necessary. Thicken, skim, and servo round the cutlets. Probable cost. Is. per pound. Mutton (a la Portugaise).—Cut and trim some neat cutlets from the best end of the neck, the bone to be cut short and the top scraped clean. Season with pepper and salt, and strew over them chopped parsley and shallot. Fry them slightly, adding a couple of bay- leaves and a small bit of garUc about the size of a pea. Take the cutlets out, and wrap each one in a buttered paper, covering the paper and cutlet Avith forcemeat. Broil them on a grid- iron over a slow even tire. Make a gravy in the frying-pan, add a dessert-spoonful of vinegar, a small tea-spoonful of anchovy-sauce, with salt tind pepper. Pour it round the cutlets, and serve hot. Time, five minutes to fry; eight minutes to broil. Sufficient, two potmds for four or five persons. Mutton Cutlets (a la Proventjale).— Saw off the upper rib-bones from a neck of mutton, also the chine-bone, and divide the meat into neat cutlets, leaving only three inches of bone to each of them. Trim off all superfluous fat, season with pepper and salt, and fry lightly in a stewpan with an ounce of good fresh butter. Make a seasoning as follows :—Stew over a slow fire, and in a closed stewpan, ten middle-sized onions chopped fine, and a small bit of garlic. Of the latter, take only enough to flavour, with- out giving any colour to the butter. When tender, add pepper, salt, and the juice of a lemon, with the yolks of four raw eggs. Stir until the seasoning has become a thick paste; then, with a knife, spread it equally and thickly over the upper side of the cutlets, brush over with beaten egg, and cover with grated Parmesan and fried bread-crumbs. Bake the cutlets with a little good gravy to keep them from sticking to the pan. Wben done, serve them in a circle round a dish, and fill the centre -with potatoes cut to an olive shape or in round balls, and pre- viously fried in butter. A good gravy round the dish. Time, ten minutes to bake. Suffi- cient, two pounds for four or five persons. Mutton Cutlets (a la Soubise).—Cutlets may be taken from the leg if lean cutlets are preferred, but the neck or loin may be ad- vantageously used, when the chops should be cut two bones thick, but removing one of them and also the chine-bone. About four inches is a good length for the cutlet. If cut from the leg, lard with bacon and tongue. (See Lard, To.) Stew the cutlets in good well-seasoned veal or chicken stock sufficient to cover them, and when done press them between two dishes to flatten, then drain them. In the meantime prepare the Soubise sauce. First peel and blanch eight onions, slice them into a stewpan with more of the stock, and simmer them gently, without allowing them to got colour, until they are nearly dissolved, then add a similar quantity of bechamel sauce, and strain through a fine hair- sieve. Put the cutlets into this puree to warm up, and sei-vo with croustadcs or more onions, prepared as before, but not crushed. The cut- lets may also be served with French beans, or any vegetable without a marked flavour of its own. Time, until tender, about three- qutu-ters of an hour. Probable cost, lOd. to Is. per pound. Sufficient, two cutlets for each person. Mutton Cutlets and Mashed Pota- toes.—Proceed as directed for mutton cutlets with tomato puree {see Mutton Cutlets with Tomato Puree), or the cutlets may be broiled. Have ready boiled two pounds of mealy potatoes. Beat them to a smooth paste with, two ounces of butter, a wine-glassful of milk, and pepper and salt to taste. Place them in the centre of the dish with the cutlets, meat- side downwards, roimd the potatoes. Time, cutlets, seven or eight minutes. Probable cost, with two pounds of mutton, 2s. Sufficient for four or five persons. Mutton Cutlets and Pur^e of Po- tatoes.—Boil or steam two poimds of mealy potatoes, mash them with a wooden spoon, or press them thi-ough a sieve, but they must be smooth. Put them into a stewpan with two or thi'ee ounces of butter, two or three table- spoonfuls of cream or broth, pepper and salt. Make them hot, and pile them in the centre of a hot dish. The cutlets may be bread-crumbed and fried, or, if preferred, broiled and served round the puree. Time, an hoiu' to prepare. Sufficient for three or four persons. Mutton Cutlets (au naturel).—These cutlets may be taken either from the leg or from the ribs. If from the ribs, cut off all superfluous fat, and when well trimmed dip each one into clai'itied butter, cover with bread- crumbs seasoned with pepper and salt, and broil just long enough to heat them thi-ough; then dip them again into the butter, to be again bread-crumbed, and the cooking completed. Lay them before the fire on white paper, and press slightly with another paper over them. Serve with a sauce as follows :—Stew in half a pint of brown gravy a handful of button mushrooms chopped, a sprig of parsley, half a bay-leaf, and the same of shallot shi-ed finely; thicken with butter rolled in flour : take out the bay- leaf, and add more salt and pepper if required. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Sufficient, two pounds for four or five persons. Mutton Cutlets, Italian.—Trim cutlets from the neck of mutton into good shape; if not even, beat them to make them so. Cut off all superfluous fat. Lay them for a few minutes in a marinade of salad-oil and minced savoury herbs, or, if preferred, dip them in clarified butter, and again into beaten egg. Cover them with a seasoning as follows: — Chop extremely fine some button mushrooms, or if these cannot be procured use mushroom powder. Prepare bread-crumbs, parsley, and savouiy herbs (of each a table-spoonful), and reduce them to powder; shred a shallot, and mince half a tea-spoonfid of lemon-peel. Put these ingi-edients with a little pounded mace into a basin, and when mixed use for the cutlets, and fry a nice light colour in butter. Make a good gravy in the pan by browning a little more butter with a dessert-spoonful or more of floui-, moisten with a large cup of vealMXJT MUT ^-442 ) stock, adtlijig iuiy sauco (Harvey, soy, inuHh- room ketchup, Aic), aud a doBHcVt-Hpoonful of tarragon vinegar. When boiled and tliick enough, diali the cutlets in a circle (they sliouid liave been k(!i)t wann), and pour the Hauco round them. Time, about ten minutes. Probable cost, 38. Sufficient, thi-ee pounds for six persons. Mutton Cutlets, Italian (another way.) —Clarify four ounces of butter, into which dip some carefully-trimmed cutlets of the best end of the neck of mutton, then immerse them in the beaten yolk of one or more eggs. Pass a cupful of bread-crumbs through a colander, to ■which add a little clioppcd lemon-peel, two shallots, a few sprigs of parsley, and a tablo- spoonful of savoury herbs, all minced; season with pepper, salt, and pounded mace. Cover the cutlets thickly with these ingredients, and fry them a rich brown in butter. Keep the cutlets hot. Make some rich brown gravy by dredging some flour into the butter which remains in the pan, and stir rapidly until brown ; pour in half a pint of hot broth or soup, half a small glassful of port wine, a table- spoonful of Harvey sauco and tarragon vinegar mixed, a tea-spoonful of soy, and a few mushrooms (if in season), if not, mushroom powder can be used. Boil the gravy up, and pour into the dish in which the cutlets have been placed. Time, ten minutes to fry cutlets. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. Sufficient for &ve or six persons. Mutton Cutlets, Reform Club.—Trim four or five well-chosen thick cutlets, sprinkle them with salt and pepper, brush them with egg, and dip them into a mixture of pounded or nnely-minced ham and bread-crumbs, in equal quantities. Cover them well with these, and fry in hot oil in a saute-pan for eight or ten minutes. Take care not to overdress them, and. turn frequently while cooking to keep their gravy from flowing. Serve round mashed potatoes with the thick end of the cutlet down- wards, and pour over them reform sauce, made in the following manner:—Put together two onions, two sprigs of parsley, two of thyme, two bay-leaves, two ounces of pounded lean ham, half a clove of garlic, half a blade of mace, two spoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, one of chilli vinegar, and a pint of brown sauce. Boil up, sldm well while simmering for ten minutes, and again boil to reduce to the thickness of cream, when add a table-spoonful of red-currant jelly and one of finely-chopped mushrooms; stii- until the jelly is quite dissolved and the flavour of mushrooms is acquired, then strain through a fine hair-sieve. This is Soyer's celebrated sauce piquant. When wanted for use make the sauce hot, and add, without boiling any more, the white of hard-boiled eggs cut into strips, four mushrooms without the brown fur and pre- viously bknched, a gherkin or two, a pinch of cayenne, and half an ounce of cooked ham, with sjilt to taste. Cut all into strips of half an inch, like the eggs. Mutton Cutlets, Sauce for (xcc Papil- lote Sauce for Veal or Mutton Cutlets). Mutton Cutlets with Tomato Puree. —Trim cutlets from Avell-hung mutton, Ix'at them into sh.apo after removing the chine-bone. dip them into dissolved butter, biush th<m with egg, and cover with bread-crumbs. Fry in boihng fat, turning them ficfjuently during the frying. Put them on blotting-]>aper before th(i fire to drain. Have ready a puree of fresh tomatoes, made as follows Pick a pomid of ripe tomatoes, break tliem open, and put tliem with(jut their seeds into a stewpan with an onion or a couple of shaUots, sweet herbs aud spice if Uked, salt, and i>epper; stir over a slow fire until the tomatoes can be pulped through a hair-sieve; return the pulp to the stewpan to simmer, add an ounce of butter well-worked together with a little flour, and stir in two ounces of meat-glaze. AiTange the cutlets in a circle a little overlapping each other, and fill the centre with the puree. Serve hot. Time, ten minutes to dress cutlets. Pro- bable cost, lOd. per pound. Sufficient, nine or ten cutlets for a dish. Mutton Dormers.—Boil a quarter of a pound of rice as if for curry; chop a good haK-pound of undeiflressed mutton, and three ounces of good fresh beef suet; mix these with the rice, and chop altogether. Shred finely half a shallot, add it with a good seasoning of pejjper and salt, and make into sausages, lioll these separately into a dish of beaten egg, cover with fine bread-criunbs, and fry in hot lard or dripping untO. of a nice brown colour. Send the dormers to table with gravy round them, and gravy also in a boat. Time, about twelve minutes to fry. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of meat. Mutton Escalopes, or Collops, with fl.ne Herbs. — Chop some mush- rooms, parsley, and a shallot, and got small thin slices (about two inches square) from the chump end of a loin of mutton. Fry these browm. on both sides in a stew- pan with an ounce of dissolved butter; the fire should be brisk, and the collops turned several times in the butter. When done, tako them out, and keep them warm before the fire. Put in the mushrooms, parsley, and shallot, half an ounce more of butter, and stew for five minutes; then add a table-spoonful of flour, a spoonful of ketchup, a quarter of a pint of stock, and the juice of half a lemon. Stir till thick. Put in the collops; make them hot, but do not boil; place high in the centre of the dish; pour the sauce over, and serve with toasted sippets or potato-balls. Time, fifteen minutes altogether. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Mutton, Fillet of. Braised.—Cut the fillet froni a well-hung leg of nuitton by tiiking oflt a few inches from the loin end, and a good knuckle, which will do for boiling, from the other end. Take out the bone, and fill tho hollow with forcemeat, if liked, or put the fiUet, well sprinkled with pepper and salt, into a braising-pan as it is, but first lay over the bottom sUces of bacon, and on these a couple of carrots and two large onions, each stuck with four cloves, a small bimch of parsley and thjnne, a few peppercorns, and lialf a i)int of gravy or stock. Put more bacon on the top, cover the lid, and braise for throe or four hours. Strain the gravy, and flavoiu- it to taste;MUT MUT ( 443 ) reducf it by rapid boiling. Have roady some French beans boiled and drained; put the beana into a stewpan with the gravy, and when hot serve them and the meat, which should be glazed, on the same dish. The chump end of a loin may be roasted before the tire, enveloped in well-buttered paper, then glazed, and served with beans in precisely the same way. The meat should be roasted slowly without getting any brown colour. Time, about two hours to roast the chump. Probable cost. Is. per pound. Mutton Gigot (a la Gascon).—Choose a tender well-hung bit of mutton. Blanch two or three cloves of garlic in several waters slightly salted, and remove the heads, tails, and bones of six anchovies. Lard the meat with the garlic and ancho'v'ies, roast the usual time, and serve with garlic sauce made as follows:—DiAide a dozen cloves of garlic, and take off their skins. Put them into slightly- salted boiling water, and, to make mild garlic sauce, change the water every five or six minutes until the garUc has lost its peculiar flavour and smell. Serve it like onion sauce, or drain and serve it in the dish with the meat. Time, twenty to twenty-five minutes to boH. Suflicient for one pint of sauce. Mutton Hachis (a la Portugaise).—Cut underdone slices from a cold roast leg, and again divide them into pieces about the size of a florin. BrovsTi slightly in butter a little lean ham, a sliced carrot, and three shallots shred finely, a bit of garlic, some sprigs of parsley, and a sprig of thyme, two cloves, and a blade )i powdered mace. Moisten Avith two glassfuls of madeira and a cup of good gravy or stock, and thicken the sauce withroux (a French prepa- ration of butter and flour, similar to the English thickening of kneaded butter with flour); then boil, skim, and strain, lietum the sauce to the stewpan put in the meat and make it hot, but it shotild not boU. Walnut or mushroom ketchup, or the liquor from onion pickle, are all allow- able with hashed mutton. Time, ten minutes. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of meat and wine. Mutton Haggis. —Take the half of a sheep's liver with its heart and tongue, and about one pound of fat bacon. Mince all well together, and grate in two ounces of bread- crumbs and the rind of a lemon. Add two anchovies chopped, and mix the whole of the ingredients with a wine-glassful of sherry, two beaten eggs, and season to taste with pepper and salt. Press the haggis tightly into a mould well buttered, and boil for two hours. Probable cost, 2s. 4d., exclusive of wine. Mutton Ham.—Choose a short, thick, fresh leg of mutton, weighing twelve or four- teen pounds, and cut it into the form of a ham. Pound in a mortar half a pound of bay salt, one ounce of saltpetre, and half a pound of coarse brown sugar. Make the mixture hot in a stew- pan, then rub it thoroughly into the moat. Turn the ham every morning for four days, and rub the pickle well into it. On the fifth day add two ounces more of common salt. Rub and turn it in the brinr; for twelve days more, then drain, and wipe dry; rub it with dry salt, and hang it up in wood-smoke. No sort of meat is more improved by smoking with aromatic woods than mutton. When once diicd it will keep for six months. Mutton hams may be roasted or boiled; but in either case they should be soaked, unless qtiite freshly done, when they will only require washing. As a breakfast-dish, with eggs, mutton ham is commonly used in the North of England and in Scotland: it is cut in slices as required, and broiled lightly. Time to smoke, one week. Mutton Ham, Smoked {see Ham, Mut- ton, Smoked). Mutton, Haricot {see Haricot Mutton). Mutton Hash {see Hash, Cold, &c.). Mutton, Haunch of, Roast.—Unless this joint has been well hung it will be tough and insipid. A haunch of good SouthdouTi mutton in fine, clear, frosty weather may be kept a month, but in damp weather it mil require much attention on the part of the cook to keep it from getting tainted in half the time. The great point is to keep it dry, by dusting it first with flour, which should be rubbed ofl: several times with a dry cloth, and again re- newed. When to be cooked, skin the loin, wash, and wipe dry; then cover with Avhite paper, or make a common paste of flour and water, and envelop the joint. Put it on the spit, or hang before a good, even, vigorous fire for the first half hour, basting it constantly with good meat-dripping. When within half an hour of being done, take off the paper, and brown slightly. Dredge the haunch with flour, and baste copiously with butter, but first pour the dripping from the pan; sprinkle a little salt, and send it to table finely frothed. IMake a gravy in the pan with what has dripped from the meat and a little boiling broth drawn from the trimmings; salt and pepper. Serve cun-ant jelly or currant-jelly sauce. Time, fi-om ten to fifteen minutes per pound ; well done, eighteen minutes. Probable cost. Is. per pound. Suffi- cient for ten or more persons. Mutton Hotch Potch.—Cut up three or four well-washed lettuces, and slice half a dozen yoimg onions, browning them slightly in two ounces of butter; add to the onions a pound of underdone mutton minced, half a cupful of mutton broth from the boiling of the bones, and the cut-up lettuces--. Stew all those ingredients to- gether for twenty-five minutes. Stir this hotch- j)otch to keep it from burning, and have ready boiled a pint of peas; mix the peas with the mutton, and stir for a minute or two to make all hot. Underdone beef may be used if more convenient, and a few mushrooms, to be easily had in the countrj', may be chopped and fried Avith the onion. Probable cost, 8d., exclu- sive of meat. Mutton, Kebobbed. — This favourite Oriental dish can be prepared with our English mutton in a manner far superior to any Kebob at Turkish or Egj-ptian tables. Take a loin of mutton, joint it well at every bone, cut off all superfluous fat, particularly of the kidney, and remove the skin ; prepare a well-proportioned( 444 ) MITT MtTT and larj>() si-usoning of thu folluwiiig in- groilioiits:—Sojiie l)road-cruiiiba, aweot horbH, uutmeg, popper, and suit; brush tho iiiuttuu chops over with yolk of egf^, and s]jrinkle Uie above mixture thickly over them ; then tie tho chops together in their original order, run a slender spit through them, and roast before a quick fire, basting them well with butter and the di-ippiugs from the meat, and tlirowing more of tho seasoning on them from time to time. Serve with the gravy from tho moat, and have ready besides a boat of gravy, to which has been added two tablo-spoonfuls of ketchup and a thickening of flour; lot this gravy boil; skim and mix it with the gravy m the dir^h. Kemember that all dishes of mutton shoidd bo served as hot as possible. Time, a quarter of an hour to a pound. Probable cost, lO^d. per pound. Suflicient for four or five persons. Mutton, Kebobbed (another way).—(See Ivcbobbcd fllutton or Veal. Mutton Kidneys (a la Maitre d'Hotel). —Broil three or four sheep's kidneys (see IMutton Ividneys, Broiled), lay them with the roimded side downwards, and put about one oimce of maitre d'hotel butter, prepared as follows, upon each one :—Put four ounces of fresh butter into an enamelled saucepan, add a little salt and cayenne, a table-spoonful of finely-minced parsley, and a dessert-spoonful of strained lemon-juice; work these ingredients well together with the point of a knife, in a cool place. When thoroughly mixed divide the butter into equal parts, put a piece upon each kidney, and serve. Time, about six minutes to broil the kidneys. Probable cost, 4d. each. [See also Butter, a la Maitre d'Hotel). Mutton Kidneys, Bread-crumbed. —Take three or four mutton kidneys, cut them open from the rounded part without separating them; take off the thin skin, and pass a small skewer through the points and over the back'to keep them flat. Dissolve an oimce of butter in a frjdng-pan, dip each kidney in this, and afterwards strew some finely-grated bread- crumbs over them. Broil them over a clear fire for six minutes, three minutes each side, and dish them neatly on a hot dish. Probable cost, 4d. each. Sufficient for two or three persons. Mutton Kidneys, Broiled.—Skin the kidneys, and open them lengthwise with a knife until the fat or root is reached, then keep them open with a skewer ; season with pepper, and broil first on the cut side (this will best preserve the gravy from wasting into the fire when the other side is turned to it). Have ready a round of buttered toast, draw out the skewers and lay the kidneys on it, with a piece of butter, cayenne, and salt on each. Serve hot, or spread the following mixture, as a higher relish, over the toast:—Knead together an ounce of butter, a tea-spoonful of mustard, and cayenne to taste; moisten with a tea- spoonful of Harvey sauce. Serve hot. Time, six to eight minutes to broil. Probable cost, 4d. each. Allow one for each person. Mutton Kidneys, Broiled (another way).—Take throe or four sheep's kidneys, cut thum open hjngthwise from tho round part without dividing them; put a small skewer through the ends and over tho back so as to keep them flat. Sprinkle salt and pepper over them, and slightly oil them; then broil them over a clear fire for six minutes, three minutch each side; put them on a hot dish with the rounded side downwards. Probable cost, 4d. each. Sufficient for three or four persons. Mutton Kidneys and Rumps {see Mutton liunips and Kidneys). Mutton Kidneys, Fried. — Remove the outer skni from half a dozen sheep's kidneys, cut them in halves, and season them rather highly with salt and cayenne. Fry them in hot butter over a brisk tire; when nicely browned upon both sides, serve them immediately on a hot dish. A dozen pieces of the crumb of bread of the same v,wc and shape may be fried in butter for two or three minutes, and each half kidney may be served upon one of these. When this is done, a cupful of good brown gravy should be put into the dish with the kidneys. Time, eight minutes to fry the kidneys. Pro- bable cost, 4d. each. Sufficient for five or six persons. Mutton Kidneys, Pried (another way). —Proceed as before directed for broiling, but put the kidneys into a frying-pan with an ounce of butter, and a little pepper sprinkled over them. When done on one side, turn for an equal time on the other. Remove to a hot dish, add pepper, cayenne, salt, and a little sauce (Harvey's or any other), and pour the gravy from the pan over them. Serve hot on toast or without. Time, seven or eight minutes. Probable cost, 3d. each. Sufficient, allow one to each person. Mutton Kidneys, Stewed (a la Fran- 9aise).—Remove the skins from half a dozen fine mutton kidneys, and cut them lengthwise into slices a quarter of an inch in thickness. Season each piece rather highly ■vN'ith salt and cayenne, and dip it into some finely-powdered SAveet herbs, namely, parsley and thyme, two- thirds of the former and one of the latter; three or four finely-minced shallots may be added, if liked. Melt a good-sized piece of butter in the frying-pan, and put in the kidneys. Let them brown on both sides. When nearly cooked, dredge a little flour quicldy over them, add a quarter of a pint of boiling stock or water, a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and the strained juice of half a lemon. WTien the gnivy is just upon the point of boiling, lift out the kidneys, put them on a hot dish, add two table- spoonfuls of either port or claret to the sauce, let it boil for one minute, then pour it over the meat. Garnish wath fried sippets. Time, six minutes to fry the kidneys. Probable cost of kidneys, 3d. each. Sufficient for four or five persons. Mutton Kidneys Stewed with Wine.—Slice two veal orfom- sheep's kidneys, and fry them in a little butter until nicely browned on both sides. Drain them from the butter, put them into a clean saucepan, and pour over them a quarter of a pint of cham- pagne, sherry, or any light wine. Add a little salt and cayenne, a table-spoonful of kek'hup, and a table-spoonful of good stock, and simmerMUT ( 44/5 ) very gently until tender. Serve as hot as pos- sible. Tlie relative proportions of wine and gi-avy may be reversed in this recipe, if pre- ferred. The kidneys are very good indeed if stewed in gravy flavoured with wine. Time, about a quarter of an hour. Probable co&t, exclusive of the wine, Is. Suflacient for two or throe persons. Mutton, Leg of, Boiled.—For boiling, this joint should not hang so long as for roast- ing. TVo or thi-ee days will be enough if the colour is considered of importance. This and careful skimming will prevent the necessity for a floured cloth, which some inexperienced cooks resortto. Cut off the shank-boue, and if neces- sary wipe the joint with a damp cloth. Put it in- to a large oval stewpan with as much boiling water as will cover it. When restored to its boiling state, skim the surface clean, and draw the stewpan to the side of the fire to allow the contents to simmer until done. Allow for a leg of mutton of nine or ten pounds' weight, two and a half hours from the time it boils. Boil very young turnips for a garnish ; these will take twenty minutes, but allow an hour for older ones, which are to be mashed. Place the turnips, which should be of equal size, round the dish, and send the mashed ones to table separately. Melted butter, with capers added, should accompany the dish. The liquor from the boiling may be converted into good soup at a trifling expense. Time, about twenty minutes to eacn pound. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Sufficient for nine or ten persons, Mutton, Leg of. Boned and Stuffed. —Having removed the bone from a leg of mut- ton (a smaU one of five or six pounds), fill the space from which it was taken with a force- meat composed of the following ingredients worked together into a firm smooth paste :— Shred finely four ounces of suet and two of ham ; mix. these with six ounces of broad-crumbs, and flavour with a tea-spoonful of minced thjTne, marjoram, and basil, the same of parsley, and a couple of shallots; add a little nutmeg, pepper, and salt. Moisten with a couple of eggs, well beaten first. Keep the forcemeat from falling out into the dripping-pan during the process of cooking by sewing up the opening, and roast be- fore a brisk fire; give the mutton twenty minutes to the pound. Or if a more savoury dish be pre- ferred, pound the solid parts of a couple of good red herrings to a paste. Season highly with pepper, and by detaching the skin from the thir-k(!st part of the joint, force the paste under and secure well. Those persons who have eaten a leg of mutton thus prepared pronounce it excel- lent. The mutton thus stuffed need not be boned. Trim off the fat from the mutton before putting it to the fire. Baste with good dripping, J<"or sauce, add to the gravy of the meat a small glass ful of sherry, an anchovy pounded, and pepper and salt to taste; boU for a few minutes; thicken with butter rolled in flour, and serve in a tureen with half the jmce of a lemon squeezed into it. Probable cost. Is. per pound. SuflBcient for six or seven persons. Mutton, Leg of, Braised. — This jciiiit might bu introduced to our readers under a variety of names; such as Leg of Mutton a la Napolitaine, a la Proven(,'ale, k la Bretonne, a la Soubiso, and a separate recipe given for each, but as it is generally called after some sauce or garnish, we give a recipe for the braising alone :—Procm-e a small leg of mutton, cut off the knuckle end, and trim away un- necessary fat. Lard it with nan-ow strips of bacon which have been well seasoned with pepper. Line a braising-pan with slices of bacon, and lay in the mutton, with more slices on the top. Add foui- carrots, two turnips, two middle-sized onions, each stuck with two cloves, a stick of celery, two blades of mace, and a few peppercorns, with enough weak stock to cover. Stew gently for three hours, then reduce the stock by rapid boiling, and brown the meat in the oven, using a little of the stock with what flows from the meat to baste, and when glazed of a light colour serve with the sauce poured over it. A leg of mutton braised as above may be garnished -with glazed carrots and onions, or a la Napolitaine, with boiled macaroni in the dish, and Neapolitan sauce over and around the macaroni, or a la Proven9ale, with the sauce of the same name, and a garnish of mushrooms glazed, &c. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Suf- ficient for six or seven persons. Mutton, Leg of, Braised (another way). — Small lean mutton is particularly adapted to this mode of cooking. It may be larded and braised, or done without the larding. Put it into a braising-pan with slices of bacon over and under, so that the bottom of the pan shall be well lined. Between the mutton and bacon strew cut carrots, onions, sweet herbs, parsley, and a bay-leaf, also a bit of garlic, if liked, and pepper and salt. Moisten with half a pint or more of good meat gravy or broth, and allow a leg of six or seven poimds to stew nearlj^ fovir hours. If stewed very gently the liquor will not have lost much in quantity. When the meat is done enough, strain, reduce the gravy by quick boiling, and serve in a tureen. Glaze the mutton, and send it to table garnished vrith onions, which should also be glazed, and white haricot beans boiled in good veal broth under the joint. A dozen peppercorns and four cloves, with a stick of celery, may be added to the braising-pan if a higher flavour is liked. Probable cost. Is. per pound. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Mutton, Leg of. Oysters with (see Oysters with Leg of Mutton). Mutton, Leg of, To Marinade.—Get the skin taken off the leg, and with three or four large juicy onions, which should be halved, rub until the mutton is well impregnated with their juice. Afterwards lay it into a marinade of the following ingredients :—Infuse, in equal quantities of vinegar and water (a quart in all), four cloves of garlic, a dozen or more of bruised peppercorns, and four cloves, a bunch of herbs, and one of parsley, with a dessert-spoonful of salt. The dish should be from five to six inches in depth, that the marinade may suiTound the meat well. Keep it in this twenty-four hours, then again rub it with four more fresh onions, and return it, this time on the other side, to( 446 ) MUT MUT the marinado for tho aamo spaco of timo. llarifjf to drain all thu uoxt day, thun wipe dry, and ruast tlu) lofjf in a buttorod papor, and aorvo with curi-iint jolly. Timo, three houi-a to roast. Mutton, Leg of, To Roast.—Get a log of about oifj;ht pounds, and whicli has hung at loast a wuok, woathor allowing. During hot summer wi-ather this joint gots quickly taintod. Rul) it lightly with salt, and put it at once, bot'oro a brisk sharp firo. Placo it close to tho liro for the first Hvo minutes, then draw it farther back, and lot it roast more slowly until done. Baste continually with a little good dripping until that from tho joint begins to How. When within twenty minutes of being done, dredge it with flour, and baste with butter or dripping; and when the froth rises serve on a hot dish. Make a gravy, throw off the fat, when any gravj', if the dripping-pan has been floured, will adhere to it. Add a little extract of meat to this, and a little boiling water, pepper, and salt. Pour the gravy round the meat, not over it. Time, fifteen minutes per pound, and fifteen minutes over. Probable cost. Is. per pound. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Mutton, Leg of, with Forcemeat.— This savoury dish is very common in Australia. A leg of mutton is carefully boned so as not to injure the skin, the fat is pared off, and about a pound of the mutton, with an equal quantity of bacon, minced together. A seasoning of garlic, onions, and pickles is then given to it, and the mince is ready; or, it is sometimes prepared simply seasoned with pepper, salt, and a little chopped parsley, if to be eaten by ladies or {hildren. The hollow made by cutting out the 6one, &c., is filled with the mince, and the skin secured over the opening to the underside. Meanwhile, a gravy is made by boiling the bone and trimmings with as much veal broth or water as will be necessary to stew the leg; vegetables are added, an onion and a carrot sliced, a small bunch of parsley, with a season- ing of pepper and salt. Lay slices of bacon over the top of the leg, and stew gently, with the lid of the pan closed, for three hours and a half or more. When done, strain the gravy, boil it rapidly, and reduce it to a glaze, with which glaze the meat, or thicken the gravy simply with browned flour and serve it with the meat. French beans, boiled in the usual manner, drained, and then warmed up in some of the gravy, may be laid under and around the leg of mutton. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Sufficient for seven or eight persons. Mutton, Leg of, with Garlic—The peculiar pungent taste of garUc is very little liked by the English, although we cannot but acknowledge that it adds to the variety of dishes that may at times prove acceptable. The following treatment will considerably soften the garlic's acridness and render it less objectionable, while at the same time re- taining its characteristic flavour. Stuff imder the skin of a leg of mutton near the shank three or four cloves of garlic that may have been boiled or not, according to taste, tho water having been changed repeatedly to mellow their flavour. Koast the leg in the usual way. Divido tho cloves from tho bulbs of as many garlics as will ]jo suflicient for the saucp, peel, and put them into water, boil for a few minutes, when throw tlie water off and replace it by more boil- ing water. Do this after several successive inter- vals of five minutes, always slightly salting the water. When the garlic luis become sufficiently tender to pulp, diuin off" the water by pressing the bulbs, and add good gravy made from the roasting of the meat. When hot, serve the meat on the garlic. Time, a quarter of an hour to a pound; to boil garlic, half an hour. Pro- bable cost of nmtton. Is. per pound. Mutton, Leg of, with Potatoes.— This homely mode of cooking a leg of mutton is not to be set aside because of its simplicity. If baked carefully, and cooked to the right point as it ought to be, a feat not always accomplished when baked at the common oven, it will be found excellent, particularly the potatoes, as they will have absorbed all the dripping of the joint, and, where economy in the use of meat as a family dinner is concerned, the potatoes will satisfy the appetite, especially of children, with- out encroaching largely on the j oint. Everybody will allow that the odour of the working man's Simday dinner is most tempting to the appe- tite; but, barring the question of fire, we do not think it the most economical of dishes. Time, a quarter of an hour to the poimd. Pro- bable cost. Is. per pound. Sufficient, a leg of mutton of moderate size for eight or more persons. Mutton, Loin of, Cooked like Veni- son.—A loin of mutton may be made to eat like venison by boiling down a woodcock or snipe which has hung so long to be thought too high for roasting, and using the gra\y to moisten the mutton stew. The mutton should have been well kept. Take off the skin and some of the fat, bone, and put it into a stewpan with the gravy, and the same quantity of port wine, an onion, a few peppercorns, half a tea-spoon- ful of minced herbs, and a sprig of parsley. Stew very gently, and skim well; this must be done often and as long as any greasy particles remain on the surface. Serve veiy hot with currant jelly. Time, about three hours. Pro- bable cost, lOd. per pound. Mutton, Loin of, Roasted.—Follow the directions given for roast leg in every particular {see Mutton, Leg of. To Roast), but trim off all unnecessary fat, which may be used for a common suet crust. If the fat be not turned to account there is no more expensive joint than a loin of mutton. Cover the fat with paper imtil \s'ithin a quarter of an hour of its being done, then remove, baste, and flour slightly, to get it frothed. Time, a quarter of an hour to the pound. Probable cost, lOd. per poimd. Sufficient, six pounds for five or more persons. Mutton, Loin of. Rolled.—Let the joint liang,then ask the butcher to bone it and re- move unnecessary fat; lay it out flat, and season highly with allspice, cloves, mace, and pepper, reduced to powder. Next day cover the side on which the seasoning has been laid with a forcemeat iia for veal, and roll the loin into at MUT ( 447 ) MUT tight compact shape, which must bo secured with a slriug. Koast it until half done, or bake it, as most convfuu-nt, but only brown it slightly, and reniovo the fat from the gravy when cold. Have ready a gravy made fiom Ooiling the bones, adding to "it that which dripped ; put the meat and gravy into a ste^vpan, and stew imtil tender. A few mushrooms or half a glassful of mushroom ketchup may be added while stew- ing: when done, put the meat unrolled on a dish ; add a table-spoonful of baked flour, and pour the gravy over, salted to taste, and boiled. A loin of mutton boned, rolled, then roasted in the usual way is an e.xccUent joint. Time to bake, an hour and a half; to stow and bake, three hours. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Mutton, Loin of, Stewed with Pickles.—Having roasted a loin of mutton imtU nearly done, cut off from three to fom- pounds of the chump end, and pare the fat to ■within an eighth of an inch. Put three large mushrooms into a stewpan with half a pint of mutton gravy, and stew them for a few minutes; then put in the meat, arid add a tea-spoonful of soy, two of chutney, a table-spoonful of shallot vinegar, and a quarter of a pint or more of mixed pickles; add of salt and cayenne about half a grain. While stewing, keep the mutton well moistened with the grsLvy; remove the fat before serving, and send to table very hot. Time, an hour and half to stew underdone mutton. Sufficient for four persons. Mutton, Minced.—Put a lump of butter into a stewpan; when it has melted dredge in flour enough to absorb the butter, and keep it well stirred over a slow fire until of a light brown colour; add haK a pound of mutton from a roast leg, minced finely, and have ready a cup of good broth made fiom the bone, with the addition of a bit of well-flavoured ham, and pepper, salt, and nutmeg; mix well, and simmer gently for half an hour, but do not boil. 'Re- move from the fire, and stir in a bit of anchovy butter the size of a walnut. Serve with a garnish of toasted sippets or a border of endive boiled as follows:—Pick the yellowish-white leaves from the stalk, and boU them in plenty of salted water, then throw them into cold; drain, press, and chop. Make hot in a clean stewpan with a little good white sauce, season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, add the yolk of an egg or two, and serve round the mutton. Mutton, Minced (another way).—Take the remains of a roast leg or loin without fat, mince it very finely, put it into a stCAvpan with a breakfast-cupful of gravy drawn from the roast to a pound and a half of meat, and season with pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg; add a table-spoonful of browned flour, and let the mince heat gradually, but do not let it boU. In twenty minutes sei-ve very hot with poached eggs round the dish; or the mince may be made more savoury by the addition of a dessert- spoonful oi walnut ketchup, and the same of walnut pickle, Oude sauce, &c., but less graw will be required. Minced mutton may be served with a border of mawironi, first boiled tender in Kilted water, and th(!n stowed after draining in nww milk. Four ounr'iis of macaroni will require one quart of water, and yrhen drained from it half a pint of milk will be suflicient; add to the milk an ounce of butter, ihe liaif of a small tea. spoonful of made mustai-d, to which a quarter of a grain of cayenne has been added, and a little salt. Time, half an hour to boil niacaronl in water; quarter of an hour in milk. Sufficient for three or four persons. Mutton,'Minced and Baked.—Take slices of mutton (the meat from a cold roast leg is best) without much fat, mince them, and add a tea-spoonful of savomy herbs, a blade of pounded mace, two shred shallots or an onion chopped very fine, and some of the meat-gravy to moisten, with a very little flour to thicken the gravy, and season with pepper and salt. Fill a pie-dish with alternate layers of mashed potatoes and the minced mutton; put the potatoes at the bottom of the dish, and finish the top in the same way. Time, half an hour to bake. Sufficient, a pound and a haU' of mutton for four or five persons. Mutton, Neck of, Boiled. — Shorten the ribs and saw ofE the chine-bone of a neck of mutton, or from three to four pounds of the best end; to look well it should not exceed five inches in length. Pare off the fat that is in excess of what may be eaten, and boil slowly in plenty of water slightly salted ; skim care- fully, and remove the fat from the surface. The meat may be served plain, with caper or parsley sauce, and a garnish of boiled mashed turnips and carrots cut into thin strips, placed alter- nately round the dish. Four middle-sized tm-nips and three carrots may be boiled with the mutton. Time, a fuU quarter of an hour to the pound. Probable cost, lOd. to Is. per pound. Sufficient for five or six persons. Mutton, Neck of, Browned.—Boil as in preceding recipe, but not quite so long; finish by cooking the mutton before the fire, first cover- ing it with a mixture of fine bread-crumbs, pars- ley, and sweet herbs, pepper, salt, and a little mushroom powder, cemented together with the beaten yolk of one or more eggs. When nicely browned, serve with half a pint of gravy thickened with a dessert-spoonful of browned fiour, and add a table-spoonful of lemon-juice. Time, a quarter of an hour to the pound. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Sufficient, four pounds for six or seven persons. Mutton, Neck of. Roasted.—We have already recommendea that the rib-bones of this joint should be shortened, to give a nice appearance to cutlets, and we also, for economy's sake, and to give a nice squareness to the piece of meat, advise the purchaser to get it done, if possible, by the. butcher. The meat of the neck from a well-fed sheep we think superior to that of the loin. Take off any excess of fat, and roast precisely according to directions given for roast loin {see Mutton, Loin of, Eoasted), always remembering that the fire for cooking mutton should be clear and brisk, but not fierce. A little salt rubbed over the joint when it is ready to bo put to the fire, a liberal basting, and some flour dredged over, to froth it nicely, are all that is wanted to satisfy a good appetite. Serve with plainMUT ( 448 ) MUT pi-nvy, hakod tomatoes, or currant jelly. Time, a quarter of an hour to tlio pound. Probahle eost, lOd. per pound. Sufficient, four poundn for four or live persons. Mutton, Oxford John {nee Oxford John). Mutton Patties. — Lino some tartlet- moulds witli a good paste. Take an equal weight of lean nnitton from the fillet and fat bacon, which pound together. Keason to taste with Halt, a very small quantity of spice, and cayenne pepper. Place a round ball of the meat into each patty-pan, cover with paste, and make a small hole in the centre. Bake in a quick oven, and pour into each patty through a funnel a little well-seasoned gravy, or glaze before the patties get cold. Time, about twenty minutes. Probable cost of paste, Is. 4d. per pound. Mutton Patties (another way).—These patties are often made with • cooked meat, which is minced, then hashed in good gravy, seasoned with pepper, salt, and a little ketchup. The mince should not boil, but be made hot, and thickened. Patty.pans, lined with half puflE-paste and filled with the meat, will require a very short time to bake. Cover with the paste, and put them into a quick oven. Time, about fifteen minutes to bake. Probable cost of paste, Is. per pound. Mutton Pie.—A very good family pie is made with the remains of a cold leg, loin, or any other joint of mutton from which nice neat slices of rather lean meat can be cut. These should be put with a good seasoning, in alter- nate layers with thinly-sliced potatoes, into a pie-dish, commencing at the bottom with some of the meat, and finishing at the top with pota- toes. Parsley, savomy herbs, onion, or shallot, with a little mace, white pepper, and salt may be used at discretion. A cupful of good gravy from the meat should be poured into the pie before the crust is put on. Suet is generally used for the crust. Time, an hour to bake. Probable cost, exclusive of meat, 6d. to 8d. Mutton Pie, Good.—Make a seasoning of chopped parsley (about two table-spoonfuls), of powdered savoury herbs and a minced shallot, in equal proportions, a dessert-spoonful, or an onion shred small, the shallot being omitted, with pepper and salt to taste. Cut from two to three pounds of neat chops from the loin or neck of mutton, weighed after the bone and much of the fat have been removed; put them, well covered with the above seasoning, into a pie- dish. Cut three kidneys into halves, and each half into two parts, distribute them equally amongst the meat, pour in half a pint of veal broth or water, and bake with a puff or good suet crust; the latter will be found very suit- able if eaten hot. A table-spoonful of ketchup and two of port wine may be added to the gravy, but there should in that case be less water. Time, about an hour and three-quai-ters to bake. Probable cost, Ss. 6d. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Mutton, Potted.—Cntintothinslices.and then pound together in a mortar, eight ounces of well-dressed roast mutton, freed from fat and sinew, and half that quantity of boiled tongue; then mix with the pounded meat three ounctm of good fresh l)utter, and add, while ]>ounding, a Kiilt-spoonful each of made nnistaid and wJii'te pc])i)er, witli a quarter of a grain of cayenne, and salt, if r(;(iuired. Store in a cool plact!,and in an earthenware jar, or in several small ones, over which should 1)o run some cbirified butter. Mutton, Quality of,—"The quality of mutton," says a well-known authority, "varies much in the different breeds. In the large long-hair(;d shiicp it is coarse- grained, l)ut disposed to 1j<; fat. In tlie smaller and short-woolled breed the flesh is closest grained and highest flavoured, but th(j quality of the flesh is probably most uifwUtd by that of the food upon which the flocks are fed. Those which range over the mountainous districts of Wales and Scotland, or the chalk downs of England, and feed upon the wild herbage, possess a flavour very superior to those kept in rich pastures and on marsh land. The Welsh mutton is particularly small and lean, but of the finest flavour. Marsh-fed mutton often becomes extremely fat, but the meat has a rank taste. Turnips, hay, chaff, bran, com, and other vegetables, as likewise oU-cake and grains, are employed for fattening sheep for the market; but such mutton is never so good as that produced when the animals can range in free- dom. In point of delicacy and flavour, South- dovra Wether mutton is considered equal to any that is killed: in summer it is thought preferable to some other finely-flavoured breeds, especially Norfolk mutton. This circumstance is said to arise from the closeness of the grain, or from the specific gravity being greater, rendering it more impermeable to the air than mutton that is coarser and looser-fleshed, the latter being, of course, more subject to putridity. The older the mutton the finer is its flavour. Wedder mutton is always preferred so much before that of the ewe that the flesh of the latter, although more commonly kept to a mature age, always sells at an inferior price." Mutton, BagOUt of.—Slice thinly two turnips, two carrots, and two onions ; these last brown in a broad-bottomed stewpan with two ounces of butter or dripping, shaking in a little flour, and stirring to prevent it from browning too quickly. Cut small short chops from a cold roast loin or neck, or from the breast small square pieces, free them from fat, and brown them on each side in the same butter; then pour in as much weak broth or water as may be required, say about half a pint, and add the sliced turnips and carrots, a sprig or two of parsley, and some pepper and salt. Stew very gently until the vegetables are tender. The flavour of this ragout may be varied by the introduction of celery, cut lettuces, or green peas, and these last, when in season, are generally preferred to turnips and carrots. Arrange the meat in a circle, and put the vegetables in the centre, with the sauce over all. Time, thi-ee-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, exclusive of meat, 4d. Sufficient, a pound and a half for four persons. Mutton, Ragout of, French.—Place three ounces of butter in a stewpan: us it melts.MUT { 449 ) MUT stir in two table-spoonfuls of flour; continue to stir until it is nicely browned, then put in about two pounds of breast or nock of mutton out into square pieces, and suilicient water to nearly cover the mutton; flavour with' a few sprigs of parsley, which must afterwards be removed. Add two lumps of sugar, and pepper tind salt to taste. AVhen it has once boiled, re- move to the side of the fire, and be careful only to let it sinmier for an hour. Fry to a nice b^o^^^l three good-sized turnips previously cut into dice; put them into the.stewpan with the meat, and simmer for a couple of minutes. Arrange the ragout upon the dish, placing the turnips in the centre, and the pieces of meat round the edge. Pour the sauce over the whole, and serve very hot. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Mutton, Koast, with Garlic (a German recipe).—The acrid flavour of garlic is not much relished by English palates. Wo confess, with our continental neigh- bours, that it is an essential to many made dishes in the form of a soiipfon only. By boiling the garUc, and repeatedly changing the water during the process, the flavour may be so mollified that few persons would disagree with us. The f oUo-^ing German mode of cooking a leg or shoulder of mutton is with garlic in its raw state :—Separate a garlic bulb into the smallest cloves, and envelop each one in a leaf of green sage. Beat the joint— leg or shoulder; take off the skin, and force the garlic well into the middle of the mutton by several holes made for the purpose. Secure the openings, rub the joint with pepper and salt, and roast in the usual way. Long strips of shallot are often used instead of garlic; these are put in with the larding-pin all over the mutton. A few tarragon leaves or tan-agon vinegar, a tea-spoonful of caraway seeds, a quarter of a pint of beer, and the same quantity of water should be put into the diipping-pan to baste the meat. Time, a quarter of an hour to the pound. Mutton, Roebuck Fashion.—Take a loin of mutton that has been well hung. Remove the fillet, skin, and cut away the fat and bones. Lay the loin in a marinade composed of equal parts of vinegar and water, to a pint of which add a glass of port or claret, a couple of carrots, and two large onions cut into quarters with a clove in each, a dozen peppercorns, two blades of mace, a bunch of herbs and parsley, some bay-leaves, and two tea-spoonfuls of salt. When the mutton has lain in the marinade twenty-four hours, turn it, and let it lie until next day, then drain, and put it into a braising- pan with a little of the pickle, the pan being well lined with bacon, and more bacon being placed over the top. Stew it three hours. Glaze the meat, and serve with gravy, adding walnut ketchup and a glass of claret. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Mutton Rumps and Kidneys.—Trim half a dozen mutton rumps {i.e. sheep's tails), skin, split, and lard the same number of mutton kidneys: season them with cayenne. Put the rumps, with a pint of good mutton gravy, into a alewpan, add two onions, each stuck with two P cloves, a blade of mace, a handful of button mushrooms chopped, or a spoonful of mushi-oom powder, with salt and pepper. Stew them in the gravy, with the stewpan closed, until the rumps are tender. Drain, and wipe them dr>'. Strain the gravy into another stewpan, add to it a quarter of a poimd of rice, previously boiled dry as if for curry, and let it get hot through while the riunps are fried. Dip them fii-st into beaten egg yolks, and then roll them in bread-cinunbs, seasoned nicely with salt, pepper, grated lemon-peel, or nutmeg, and a dessert-spoonful of thyme and parsley mixed. When of a light brown, have the kidneys ready (they should be roasted, and well basted), turn the rice into the centre of a hot dish, and arrange the rumps and kidneys round it; or they may be sensed with French beans boiled in the usual way, and then warmed up in some of the giavy instead of rice. Time to stew rumps, half an hour; to fry, ten minutes; to roast kidneys, twenty minutes. Probable cost, about 2s. Mutton, Saddle of (a la Portugaise).— Prepare a marinade as follows :—Boil together, in two quarts of port wine mixed with a pint of vinegar, a couple of onions, each stuck wdth six cloves, six bay-leaves, two large caiTots, half a dozen small turnips, a bunch of parsley, and a clove of garlic or three shallots. Put the mutton into a rather deep dish, with the top and flaps neatly trimmed, and any excess of fat removed with the skin; pour the marinade boiling over it, and keep it basted often until cold; then turn the meat in it once a day, and, in five or six days, drain, wipe dry, and roast for a qiiaiier of an hour over the usual time for mutton, covering it with a buttered paper, and basting constantly until done. Serve with a gravy from the meat to which a little of the marinade has been strained and a good quan- tity of currant jelly been added. Time for ten pounds, two hours and three-quarters. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Snfficient for seven or eight persons. Mutton, Saddle of, Roasted.—A saddle of mutton, if hung in a cool airy place, will improve with keeping from one to three weeks, according to the weather; but as this part of the sheep is the most tender and delicate, it may, if liked, be roasted in from four to five days. If not for a large familj', get the joint well trimmed; the flaps, tail, and chump end may be cut away, which will considerably lessen the weight, and be found more advan- tageous to the purchaser, even at a higher price per pound. In its entire state it is considered an expensive joint, consequently people of moderate means and family, unless so accommodated by the butcher, can seldom order it. Roast as before directed for roast loin {see Mutton, Loin of. Roasted). The joint should bo skinned, and the skin tied over it securely until within half an hour of its being sent to table, when it should be removed, and the surface browned and frothed. It should be of a pale brown colour. Make a gravy in the dripping-pan: do not pour it over the meat, but put a httle in the dish, and more in a tureen, with red-currant jeUy cr port-wine sauceMUT MUT ( 460 ) Timo, ton poundsrtwo hours and a half, or less if likod underdone. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Sufficient for seven or eight persons. Mutton, Sauce for {see Queen Mary's Sauce for Koast Mutton). Mutton Sausages.—A delicate sausage is made from the remains of an underdone leg of roast mutton, or any other joint from which slices can bo got without fat. Chop a pound of loan underdone mutton and six ounces of hoof suet separately ; then mix them with f our ounces of finoly-proparod bread-crumbs, and put them into a basin with a pint of oysters bearded and chopped, two anchovies, a seasoning of thyme, marjoram, and powdered mace, and some pepper and salt. Moisten with two beaten eggs, and a little of the anchoN-y liquor if re- quu'ed. Make into a firm paste, and roll into sausages or make into balls, but the sausago- mcat will keep for a few d^ys. Time to fry, seven or eight minutes. Mutton, Scrag (a la Menehould).—Soak in warm water and wash the undivided scrag end of the neck of mutton ; drain, sprinkle lightly with pepper, and hang it for a couple of days. Slice three or four young carrots, and divide into quarters three middle-sized onions, line the bottom of a stewpan with thin slices of fat bacon, lay in the scrag, with slices of bacon over the top, and the vegetables which have been sliced, with a couple of bay-leaves, a sprig of thyme, marjoram, and basil, a small bunch of parsley, thirty white peppercorns, and as much liquor from the boiling of a knuckle or scrag of veal as will cover the meat well. Prepare a cupful of bread-crumbs, seasoned with pepper and salt, and when the meat is tender drain it from the gravy in which it has stewed; cover with the seasoned crumbs, and brown in a quick oven, or with a salamander. Time, four hours to stew. Probable cost, 8d. per pound. Mutton, Shoulder of (a recipe by a Scotch lady).—Hang a shovdder of mutton until tender, and, when ready for cooking, put it before a bright clear fire for three-quarters of an hour, or, according to the weight of the shoulder, until half done. Eemove the joint from the fire, and, as expeditiously as possible, score it on both sides. Put it again to the fire, first emptying the dripping-pan of the fat, and replacing it with the gravy that may have flowed while scoring, and enough of meat-gravy to make half a pint; add the same quantity of port wine, and a spoonful each of walnut and mushroom ketchup, with two fine anchovies boned and pulped, a pinch of cayenne pepper, and salt to taste. Allow the usual time for roasting, but baste copiously with the above sauce. Rub the dish, when made hot, on which the mutton is to be served with cut garlic or shallot, and pour the sauce from the pan over it. Mutton, Shoxilder of, Broiled.—Half roast, or stew, or parboil, a joint of six pounds, then cut it once or twice on both sides to the bone, season the cuts and outside with cayenne, and finish dressing on a gridiron over a brisk fire; take the gravy, not the fat, add to it some pickled muslirooms, large and small, and strew over, and garnish the broil when served. It is needless to remind tho reader that dishes and plates should all be made very hot, especially for mutton. Time to ])arboil, one hour ; to grill, twenty minutes. Average cost, lOid. per pound. Sufliciont for five or six persons. Mutton, Shoulder of, Roasted.—This joint should be ^s■ell liuug; a ioilnight in cold dry weather will not be found too much if for a roast. Rub one of six or seven pounds Hghtly with salt, and put it before a bright clear fire ; baste continually until done, keeping it at eighteen inches distance from the fire to let the heat penetrate the middle. When within twenty minutes of being ready for serving, tho joint should be drawn nearer to the fire, dredged slightly with flour, and basted to give it a frothed appearance. Have ready some boiled Spanish onions, glaze them, put the mutton on a hot dish, make a gravy from the drippings, garnish with the glazed onions, and send onion sauce to table in a tureen. Time, a quarter of an hour to the pound. Probable cost, 9id. ta lOd. per pound. Sufficient for five or six persons. Mutton, Shoulder of. Stewed.—Hang this joint as long as possible in dr>' cold weather ; for stewing three days will be sufficient. Procure one, not too large or too fat, pare off what is unnecessary of the fat, and use it for a common crust; take out the bladebone, and fill the space with a forcemeat as for vealj sew up the opening, shoe an onion, a carrot, a turnip, and a stick of celery, put them with tho mutton into a stewpan, pour in good stock enough to cover, and add a clove of garlic, a bay-leaf, a blade of mace, two cloves, a dessert-spoonful of salt, half the quantity of white pepper, and a large pinch of cayenne. Let the whole simmer gently, with the lid closed, for four hours, strain, and thicken the gravy with an ounce of butter i-olled in flour ; put the meat on a hot dish with a little of the gravy, add to the remainder half the juice of a lemon and a glassful of white wine. Serve with French beans boiled in the usual way, drained and warmed up in good gravy, or with spinach round the dish; or, ha-\dng taken out the blade- bone, sprinkle the under side with pepper, salt, chopped parsley, and shred shallot, but use ovlj enough of the latter to give it a sHght flavour. Roll the meat into a nice shape, and stew gently for three hours in a braising-pan with a pint of good stock, add salt, a very small pinch of cayenne, a few peppercorns, and a: bunch of sweet herbs, and, an hour before serving, a couple of carrots cut into strips, the same of turnips in halves, and four middle-sized onions; poiu- in a glass of white wine, and when ready serve the vegetables round the meat, and tho gravy over it. Probable cost, 9d. to lOd. per pound. Mutton, ShoTilder of. Stuffed. — Having boned a shoulder of mutton, and trimmed off the excess of fat, stretch it out on a pasteboard, and sprinkle over it pepper and salt. Make a .«iausage-mcat with equal quantities of lean pork and bacon (a pound m all), seasoned with pepper, salt, and a littleMUT MUT ( 451 ) mace; pound these in a mortar, and stuff the shoulder; then round it to a nice shape, having first secured the forcemeat; use strong thread, and if properly and carefully done there is no fear of the sausage-meat leaving its place. Put the stuffed shoulder in a large stewpan con- taining some melted hutter, and brown slightly both sides of it. Pour in a quart of good broth or water, and when it has boiled, and been skimmed, add a bunch of savoury herbs, an onion, a carrot, a handful of button mushrooms, and two cloves ; simmer until done, basting the meat often with the gravy during the last ha,lf hour. Serve the meat on a hot dish; strain and take oft" aU fat from the gravy, keep the meat hot before the fire, return the gravy to a small stewpan, and boil rapidly until it is re- duced in quantity; then pour it over the meat, and gamiah with glazed onions. Time to brown, seven or eight minutes for each side ; to dress altogether, two hours and a half. Probable cost, 9^d. to lOd. per pound. Sufficient for seven or eight persons. Mutton, Shoulder of, with Oysters. —This joint is seldom cooked at the present time in this fashion, but we give the recipe to show the variety of ways in which a shoulder of mutton may be served. When boned, it should be highly seasoned with salt, pepper, and pounded mace. Place a layer of oysters, bearded, over the inside of the meat, sew up the opening, and roll the joint up neatly, securing it with a broad tape so that it may not get loose during the stewing, simmer gently in beef gravy or broth just enough to cover it, add an onion stuck with two cloves, and half a tea-spoonful of whole pepper; serve with oyster sauce poured over the meat. Time, according to size, twenty minutes to the pound. Probable cost, 9d. to lOd. per pound. Sufficient, seven poimds for six or seven persons. Mutton Steaks, French.—Cut steaks from the neck; make them neat by shortening the bones, which put aside with the trimmings for gravy. Put the steaks into a stewpan, and bring them to the boU, with a few small onions, savoury herbs, and water to cover; remove at once to a dish to drain, put the trimmings and bones into the liquor from which they were taken, and boil for an hour. When strained, set the gravy to cool, and when the fat is cleared off thicken it with browned butter and flour; flavour with salt, pepper, and a little vinegar. When the steaks are ready (they should be fried in the meanwhile, and dipped into egg, bread-crumbs, and finely-minced herbs), pour the gravy on a hot deep dish, and lay the steaks into it. Time to boil steaks, two minutes; to fry, five minutes. Sufficient, two pounds for four persons. Mutton, Stewed.—Take slices of half an inch thick, and without fat, from any roast joint, season them wcU with pepper, salt, a little shred shallot, and mushroom powder, mixed together, and sprinkled over the meat. Put a pint of broth into a stewpan, lay in the meat with a couple of young carrots sHced, and a coTipIo of small onions. Let the mutton Qtew until the carrots are tender; keep the lid of the stewpan closed. Put the meat in the centre of a hot dish, thicken the gravy with half an ounce of butter kneaded with a little flom-, add any store sauce—Harvey's or any other preferred —and serve with di-ied rice round the dish. Time to stew meat, half an hour. Sufficient, a pound and a half of meat for four or more persons. Mutton, Stewed and Baked.—A shoulder of mutton is deprived of its greasy quality by being partially boiled, or rather stewed, and its cooking completed in the oven. Procure a middle-sized shoulder, trim off any excess of fat, and bone it; put it into a stewpan with just water enough to cover it. Simmer gently for two hours or more, according to the size. Put it before the fire, tie a good lump of butter in a coarse muslin, rub the mutton well over, and then strew thickly with fine raspings, chopped parsley, thyme, pepper, and salt, mixed together. Finish the cooking in the oven; half an houi- in a good oven will be suffi- cient. Serve on a hot dish with boiled spinach round the mutton, and gravy in a tureen. Probable cost, 9d. to lOd. per pound. Suffi- cient for five or six persons. Mutton Stock for Soup.—For a rich soup allow a pound of meat to a pint of watei', but do not use mutton cw/y ; a mixture of meats will make the best soup. Four pounds of mutton, with the same weight of beef, or rather less of veal, necks, feet, and bones of undressed fowk, and of a calf's head, with a layer of lean ham, or half a pound of Jewish smoked beef, laid over the bottom of an iron soup kettle, and a pint or a pint and a half of water to each pound of meat, will make very excellent stock, vrith the addition of vegetables. Boil the meat and bones slowly, and skim carefully; add to each gallon, when boihng, one ounce and a half of salt, three onions, each ■with four cloves, three carrots, three turnips, two heads of celery, a bunch of parsley and thyme, a blade of mace, and a dozen white peppercorns; strain for use. Time to simmer, six hours. Mutton Tails.—Cut them into halves and boil, or rather stew, until tender, in broth or water, skimming the surface free of all fat, &c.; add salt, an onion or two stuck with cloves, a bunch of parsley, and a few fine herbs. "WTien tender, take them out, drain, and dip them, but they should be first scored, into dis- solved butter; cover with nicely-seasoned bread- crumbs, and when these have dried pour more dissolved butter over, and again cover with the crumbs, and brown with a Siilamander; thicken the gravy, add a little lemon-juice, and serve with the gravy poured over them, which should bo drained. Mutton tongues may be cooked in the same manner, and served on the same dish, arranged alternately. Time, two to three hours to stew. Mutton Tea (Invalid Cookery).—To a pound and a half of lean juicy mutton, cut into small dice and without bone, allow one pint of water; put it into a saucepan, and pour the water cold on it. Infuse this by the side of the fire for half an hour, then boil, add a little salt, and remove the scum. Simmer gently for another half hour, and let it settle; then straiu,( 452 ) NAP MUT keeping back the sodiment. If to be ro-warmcd Bot tho basin in Ijuiliiiu: water. Probable cost of mutton, Is. por pound. Mutton Tongues.—Boil in good stock broth, having liivst Ijlunchod thoni, half a dozi.'u sheep's tongues until tho skin may bo taken oif easily, then split tliom nearly through without separating them. Put them into a stewpun ■with a little of the stock, a glassful of white wine, half a pint of small onions previously fried in butter, a little shred shallot, or if Uked a small bit of garlic, and some button mushrooms, with a tea-spoonful of mixed spice, and some pepper and salt. AVhcn tlio onions are tender, set tho tongues on a dish, roots inwards, and serve with a puree of onions or tui'nipa in the centre, and the small onions as a garnish round them. Time to boil, two to tlii-ee hours; to warm in sauce, fifteen minutes. Mutton Trotters.—Sheep's trotters are served on the continent plain boiled, ac- companied with oil and vinegar in a tureen, or they are boiled until tender, the bones care- fully removed, and the feet dipped into a batter before frying; theymayalsobe stewed, and, after boning, the space left by the bones may be filled with a forcemeat as follows :—Pound together a small quantity of cooked veal, and the same of bacon or fresh suet; mix these with finely- prepared bread-crumbs, add pepper, salt, nut- meg, and bind with beaten egg. Take some of the broth in which the trotters have been boiled, stew them in it thus stufted for about twenty minutes, adding a seasoning of shred shallot, and any store sauce. Put the trotters on a dish, boil the sauce rapidly for ten minutes, then pour it over the feet, and serve. Mutton Trotters (another way).—These require long and slow stewing, either in water with vegetables, carrot, onion, celery, a few cloves, and peppercorns, or with white sauce; they are sometimes) boned, and stuffed with force- meat, the trotters being first boiled long enough to slip their bones easily without injury to the sldn. Lay them so stuffed into a stewpan with a little of their own liquor from the boiling; when they have been stewed thus for half an hour, take out the trotters and reduce the gravy to a glaze, with which cover them, and serve. Before cooking, cut off the hoof, singe, wash, and blanch, for five minutes, in boiling water. Time to stew, three hours and a half. Mutton, Venison imitated with {see Gravy, To make Mutton like Vemson). Mutton with Mushrooms.—Peel four or five flap mushrooms, and wash, but di-am weU; take thin slices from an underdone leg of mutton, about a pound, season them with cayenne and pepper, a quarter of a grain ot the former mixed with a salt-spoonful ot the latter, and a tea-spoonful of salt; add a shred onion, and a piece of garlic the size of a pea. Lay half the seasoned mutton into a pie-dish, and on it place the mushrooms, which should be large enough to cover, with a piece of butter, a quai-ter of an ounce in etich. Fill the dish with the mutton, put l)it3 of butter over the top, and pour in a quarter of a pmt ot gravy from the roast or tho boiling of tho bone, to which a little pounded mace has been added. Cover with another dish, and bake slowly. Time, tliree-quai-ters of an hour to bake. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of tho meat. Suffi- cient for three persons. My Own Cakes.—BeatweU six fresh eggs, and remove the specks ; have ready baked eight ounces of flour. Put the flour into a bowl witli eight ounces of finely-sifted sugar, of sweet almonds, blanched and pounded, and of citron, minced, each two ounces; moisten with the eggs, and flavour with thirty drops of tho essence of vanilla, and half a small wine-glass- ful of curacoa, first mixed with eight ounces of dissolved butter, and then with the ingre- dients in tho bowl, which must be beaten for several minutes. During the beating pro- cess add, sprinkling them in from time to time, three or four ounces of clean well-dried currants. Butter small fluted moulds, but do not fill them; leave 8i)ace for rising. The oven should be quick, and the cakes put in as quickly as possible. When nearly done, ice over the tops, flavouring the icing with a few drops of vanilla; make the icing by beating the white of an egg, with two table-spoonfuls of pounded sugar, add flve drops of vanilla. These cakes may be eaten hot or cold. Time, about twenty minutes to bake; ten minutes to beat thii mixture. N Nanterre, Gateau de {see Gateau da Nanterre). Naples, or Finger. Biscuits.—Take eight eggs. Divide the wnites from the yolks, and put them into separate bowls. Beat the yolks thoroughly, and mix with these half a poimd of finely-sifted loaf sugar, a smaU pinch of salt, two or three drops of almond, lemon, or any other flavouring, two ounces of best flour, and two ounces and a half of com-flour. Beat thoroughly to a thick smooth batter. Whisk the whites to a soHd froth, add them a little at a time to the rest, beating briskly all the while. Place them on a baking sheet, in fingers four inches long and three-quarters of an inch wide, sift a little sugar over them, and bake in a moderate oven. They should not be allowed to brown. Time to bake, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, Is. 6d. per pound. Naples Sauce for Fish.—Take one- eighth of a pint of freshly boiled shrimps, remove the shells, and put them into an enamelled saucepan, and with them a large anchovy, freed entirely from skin and bone, two shallots finely minced, a dessert-spoonful of bruised capers, and three dessert-spoonfids of strained lemon-juice : a little piece of garlic not larger than a small pea can also be put m if the flavour is Uked. Stir over the fire for six or seven minutes, pour in a quarter of a pint of good stock, and add a small pinch of cayenne and half a blade of mace. Simmer gently for a quarter of an hour, thicken the sauce with a piece of butter, the size of a largo egg, rohorl thickly in flour, and boU ten minutes longer.( 453 ) NEA NAS Strain the sauce, adding another dessert-spoon- ful of lemon-juice; make it as hot as possible without letting it boil, then draw it from the fire, and stir in a quarter of a pint of thick cream. Serve at once. Time, three-quarters of an hour to prepare. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Nasturtium.—This elegant plant some- times goes under the name of Indian cress. It thrives satisfactorily in this country, but is a native of Peru. The young leaves and flowers of the nasturtium are frequently employed in salads. Its seeds, when pickled, make a good substitute for capers [see Nastur- tium Seeds), and its fine yeUow flowers are used to garnish dishes. There are two species of nasturtium, the small and the large; the latter is the hardier, and is that usually culti- vated. Nasturtium Pickle. — The buds and Geeds of the nasturtium are both used for pickle. The former are the more delicate, the latter the more highly flavoured. The buds should be gathered before the petals protrude beyond the calyx, the seeds while they are quite young and as soft as green peas. All that is necessary is to gather them on a dry day, put them at once into a jar, cover them "Nvell with cold vinegar, and when the harvest is over cork them down tightly. A little seasoning may either be put into the vinegar or not. It may consist of two ounces of salt and a dozen peppercorns to each quart of -vinegar. At the end of a few months this pickle will be found to be very nicely flavoured. Time, to be kept twelve months before being used. Probable cost, uncertain, nasturtium buds and seeds being seldom sold. Nasturtium Seed Sauce (for Boiled llutton, &c.).—Take two table-spoonfuls of nasturtium seedfi, preserved as in the last recipe, cut them into small pieces, and put them aside im.til wanted. Dissolve one ounce of fresh butter in a stewpan, dredge three- quarters of an ounce of flour slowly into it, and make it quite smooth with the back of a wooden spoon. Add half a pint of boiling gravy, and beat it imtil qviite free from lumps. Season with a dessert-spoonful of nasturtium vinegar, a pinch of cayenne, and a little salt if required. Put in the bruised nastur- tium seeds, boil iip once more, and serve. Time, twenty minutes. Probable cost, 3d. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Nasturtium Seeds (a. substitute for Capers).—The seeds of the nasturtium plant are excellent as a substitute for capers to be served with boiled mutton. Gather them while they are still young and green, wash them well in cold water, put a little salt with them, and let them soak imtil next day. Dry them well with a soft cloth, put them into glass bottles, and cover them entirely with cold vinegar. Two ounces of salt, a dozen pep- percorns, a small piece of horse-radish, four or five loaves of tarragon, and two cloves may be put with each quart of vinegar. Cork the bottles securely, and store them in a cool dry place. The nasturtium seeds will not be ready for use until the next summer. Probable cost, uncertain, nasturtium seeds being seldom oft'ered for sale. Nasturtium Vinegar ''for Flavouring Sauces, &c.).—Gather nastm-tium flowers which are fully blown, put them into large glass bottles, and shake them well together. FiU the bottle with cold vinegar, and put a finely- minced shallot and the third of a clove of garlic with each quart. Let the vinegar re- main for two months. At the end of that time strain it through a tamis, and add half au ounce of cayenne and half an ounce of salt. Put the vinegar into small bottles, and cork securely. Probable cost, 8d. per quart. Nautese Salad.—Peel half a dozen small Spanish onions. Take out the core, put a little butter inside each, and bake them in a moderate oven, basting occasionally with butter until they are quite tender. Let them get cold, then cut them into slices, and lay them at the bottom of a salad bowl. Scrape half a dozen sardines, preserved ia oil or butter, or, if preferred, soak a Yarmouth bloater for three or four minutes in boiling water. Kemove the skin, take the flesh from the bonea, and lay the fish in convenient-sized pieces upon the onion. Slice half a dozen hard-boiled eggs, place these on the fish, and strew over the whole two table-spoonfuls of finely-minced parsley and a tea-spoonful of chopped tarragon or chervil. Serve with salad dressing. Time, one hour to bake the onions. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Neapolitan Cake.—Blanch and pound to a smooth paste six ounces of sweet almonds and one ounce of bitter almonds, and whilst pounding them keep dropping in a little orange-flower water or rose-water to prevent them oiling. Add a pinch of salt, the grated rind of a large lemon, four ounces of fresh butter, half a pound of sifted loaf sugar, and ten ounces of flour. When these ingredients are thoroughly mixed, work them together with the well-beaten yolks of six eggs, and leave them in a cool place for half an hour. Roll the paste out to the thickness of a quarter of an inch, stamp it out in rounds about the size of an ordinary cup-plate, lay these upon a floured tin, and bake in a good oven. When they are firm and lightly coloured take them out, trim the edges, and when quite cold lay them one upon another, and spread a thick layer of differently coloured jam on the top of each round; and as each piece is put on press it lightly with the hand, so that the jam shall make the rounds adhere together, and so form one cake. Before serving sift a little pink sugar over the top, or garnish as fancy dictates. Time to bake the rounds, about half an hour. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Neapolitan Custard Pudding.—Cut two sponge-cakes into slices, and spread a little jam over each slice. Place them in a buttered pie-dish, sprinkle over them six or seven powdered ratafias, and poui- over vne whole a custard made as follows :—Sweeten half a pint of nulk with three lumps of sugai- which ha-«©NEC TfEA ( 454 ) been woU rubhod upon the rind of a largo fresh lemon. Lot the custard nearly boil, then stir into it 11 tublo-spoonful of flour which has been naixod smoothly with a littlo cold water. Add two ounces of fresh butter, and stir the mixture over tho t're until it thickens. When ahnost cold add Iho woU-beaton yolks of three eggs, put tho pudding into a moderate oven, and bake until it stilfons. Whip the whites of tho • eggs to a firm froth, spread this on the top of the pudding, and sift about a table-spoonful of powdered white sugar over the surface. Put tho pudding in tho oven again eight or ton minutes before it is served, that tho eggs may stiffen a little. Time to bake, half an houf. Probable cost, lOd. yufficiont for four persons. Neapolitan Gateau {see Gateau, Na- politaine). Neapolitan Ice Glace, Napolitainc). Neapolitan Sauce.—Take one ounce of lean ham, mince it finely, and put it into a small stewpan with quarter of a pint of thickened brown sauce, four table-spoonfuls of stock, a glassful of claret, ono table-spoonful of Harvey's sauce, two table-spoonfuls of red- currant jelly, one table-spoonful of grated horse-radish, two shallots, a small bay-leaf, half a tea-spoonful of powdered thyme, one clove, an inch of mace, and a dozen peppercorns. Simmer gently for twenty minutes; strain, and serve. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for sLx: or seven persons. Neapolitan Sweetmeats (a Dish for a Juvenile Party).—Eoll out some good puff- paste to the thickness of a quarter of an inch. Stamp it out in rounds, diamonds, or any shapes that may be preferred, remembering only to have an equal number of each shape. Place these on a Houred baking-sheet, and bake in a quick oven. "Wlien cold spread a thick layer of different coloured jams upon half of them, press the other halves on the top, and garnish with a little piping of pink and white icing. Time, ten minutes to bake. Probable cost, 2s. per pound. Neats' Feet, Potted.—Boil two neat's feet in a small quantity of water untU. the ficsh easily leaves the bones. Cut the meat into small pieces, and place these neatly in a mould. Season a small quantity of the liquid with salt, cayenne, and a little mace; pour it upon the meat, and when cold and stiff turn it out on a dish, and garnish with parsley. Time, four hours or more to simmer the feet. Probable cost, 8d. each. Sufficient for six or savcn persons. Neats' Feet Soup.—Take two neat's feet which have been marely scalded and cleaned, not boUed. Put them into a stewpan with three quarts of good stock, one pound of pickled pork, a bundle of sweet herbs, and tho rind and juice of a small lemon; simmer gently for four "hours until the liquid is reduced to about half its quantity and the bones leave the flesh easily. Strain the soup ; cut tho moat into convenient-sized pieces, and return both again to the saucepan, adding one pint of strong beef- gravy and a glassful of sherry. Season with a littlo cayenne and Sfilt, if necessary; boil up once more, and serve. Time, live houi-s. Probable cost of feet, 8d. each. Sullicient for six or eight persons. Neats| Feet with Parsley Sauce.— A neat's foot or cow's heel, which is the same thing, is generally three-parts cooked when offered for sale. If it is wished to cook it separately, ono or two recipes will be found elsewhere; but the substance of the feet con- sists of so little besides gelatine and bones that they are more valuable when stewed to enrich other dishes than when served by themselves. They are sometimes stewed with a very small quantity of water until the bone leaves the flesh, and then sei-\'ed with a little parsley and butter, flavoured with lemon- juice. Probable cost, 8d. each. Sufficient, one foot for two persons. Neats' Tongues, To Salt for im- mediate use.—Take a couple of neats' tongues. Trim them neatly, and cut off the roots without taking away the under fat, wash them thoroughly, dry them in a cloth, and rub them well with two ounces of common salt, one ounce of brown sugar, and half an ounce of saltpetre. Place them in a long deep pan, and turn and rub them every day for a fortnight, at the end of 'which time they will be ready for use. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. to 4s. 6d. each. Sufficient, one tongue for eight or nine persons. Neats' Tongues Cured for Seep- ing.—Prepare two tongues by trimming them neatly and cutting off the roots without disturbing the under fat. "Wash and dry them, and rub them well with an ounce of saltpetre and an ounce of sal prunella. Rub them well eve^y day for four days ; place them in a long earthenware pan, cover them with a pound of common salt, and turn them every day for three weeks. Wipe them with a soft cloth, dip them in bran, and hang them in smoke for a fortnight. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. to 4s. 6d. each. Neat's Tongue, Potted.—Take half a pound of cold boiled neat's tongue, with a small quantity of fat. Cut it into thin slices, and pound it in a mortar; season it ■with half a tea-spoonful of white pepper, half a tea-spoonful of fresh mustard, and three or four grates of nutmeg; add, whilst pounding, two ounces of clarified butter. Press tho meat into small pot- ting-jars, and pour clarified butter over the top. Time, half an hour to prepare. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for two or three persons. Nectar.—Take off the thin rind of two fresh lemons, and put it into an earthenware jar with one pound of chopped raisins and a pound and a half of sugar. Pour over these ingredients two gallons of boiHng water, let the liquid stand until cold, then add the strained juice of the lemons, and leave it in a cool place for a week, stirring it every day. Strain it through a jelly- bag until quite clear, and bottle it for present use. Probable cost, Is. 8d. Sufficient for two gallons of nectar. Nectar (another way).—Take two pounds of chopped raisins, four pounds of loaf sugar, and two gallons of boiling water. Mix these( 455 ) NEC NEC ingredients, and stir frequently till the water id cold, then adtl two lemons sliced, three pints of proof spirit—either brandy or rum. Macerate in a closed vessel for sL\ or seven days, giving the vessel a shake now and then, then strain with pressure. Set the strained liqueur in a cool place for a week; when clear, decant and tottle oif. Nectar, May {see May Nectar). Nectar, Vauxhall, To Imitate {see Vauxhall Nectar). Nectarine Pudding. — Stew a dozen nectarines, not over-ripe, with a little sugar until they are quite tender. Beat them well with a fork, remove the skin and the kernels, let them get cold, then mix with them the well- "beaten yolks of four and the wliites of two ■eggs, a quarter of a pint of finely-grated bread- crumbs which have been soaked in as much •cream as they will absorb, and add a little more :sugar if required. Line a dish with good puff- paste, pour in the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven; strew sifted sugar over the top Taefore serving. Time, one hour to bake. Pro- bable cost, 28. 6d. Sufiicient for six persons. Nectarines and Peaches. — These fruits are both the produce of the same species of plant, the skin of the first being smooth, that of the second downy. Both contain a considerable quantity of sugar, but cannot boast of possessing great nutritive proper- ties. The seeds of the nectarine are employed for making noyeau and flavouring brandy. NECTARINE AND PEACH. Peaches and nectarines are dessert fruits of a very high order. They make delicious pre- serves, and in America and in some parts of France are used in the manufacture of a sort of brandy. The leaves contain prussic acid, and consequently when steeped in gin or whisky impart a flavour resembling that of noyeau. According to Mr. Loudon, the fol- lowing are the characteristics of a good peach or nectarine:—"A good peach or nectarine possesses these qualities: the flesh is firm; the skin is thin, of a deep or bright red colour next the sun, and of a yellowish green next the wall; the pulp is of a yellowish colour, full of high-flavoui-ed juice; the fleshy part thick, and the stone small." The peach was introduced into this country about the middle of the six- teenth century. It is always reared against walls or imdOT glass. Both peaches. and nectarines are divided into the "free-stone" or "molting" peaches, in which the flesh or pulp separates readily from the stone; and the '' cling-stone varieties," in which the flesh clings or adheres to the stone. The first named are usually the best flavoured. Nectarines, Candied.—Gather the nec- tarines when perfectly sound and not over- ripe. "Weigh them carefully, rub them with a soft cloth, split them in halves, and take out the stones ; boil half their weight of sugar ^vith a quarter of a pint of water to each pound, and when quite clear put in the nectarines, and let them boil gently until they are clear, but unbroken; then lift them out carefully, and put them on an inverted sieve to drain. Next day boil the syrup until it is quite thick, put in the fruit, and boil it gently for five minutes, and on taking out the nectarines again drain them; repeat this process twice. After the nec- tarines are taken out the last time spread them on dishes, place them in a moderate oven, sprinkle sifted sugar over them, and turn them about until they are dry. Nectarines. Pickled.—Gather the nec- tarines when fully grown, but not quite ripe. Look them over carefully, remove any that are at all blemished, and put the rest into salt and water sufficiently strong to float an egg; lay a thin board over the fruit to keep it well under water, and leave it for two or three days. At the end of that time drain it well, dry it with a soft cloth, put it into pickling jars, and cover entirely with good white wine vinegar. Put half a blade of mace, six cloves, a piece of whole ginger, and a quarter of a pint of mustard seed with each quart of vinegar. Tie down the jars securely, and store in a cool dry place. The pickle wUl be ready for use in two months. Keep the nectarines well covered with vinegar. Nectarines, Preserved. — Gather the nectarines when they are fully grown, but not over-ripe. Split them in halves, and remove the stones; put the weight of the fruit into a preserving pan vpith a quarter of a pint of water to every pound of sugar; boil it to a clear syrup, then put in the fruit, and simmer gently for twenty minutes. Pour the preserve carefully into a bowl, breaking it as little as possible, and let it remain until the next day, when it must be boiled again for ten minutes. Lift the fruit out carefully with a spoon, put it into jars, boil the sjTTup fast by itself for ten minutes, and pour it over the fruit; break the stones and blanch the kernels, put a portion in each jar, and tie do\vn securely. Store in a cool dxy place. Nectarines, Preserved (another way). —Gather the noctai-ines when fully grown, but not over-ripe. Wipe thorn -with a soft cloth, and put them into a pan of boiling water. Place them near the fire, but not upon it, as it( 456 ) NET ifl only necessary that the water should not bo allowod to cool. Lot the nectarines remain for an hour, then take them out, throw them at once into cold water, and leave thorn for another hour. Place them on an inverted sieve to drain. Push out the stones. Put the weight of the fruit in loaf sw^ar into a prosorving-pan with a quarter of a pint oi cold water to each pound of sugar. Boil to a clear syrup, then put in the nectarines, and the kernels blanched and sliced, and lot them boil for live minutes. Pour them oarefuUy into a bowl, and let them remain for twenty-four hours. Drain off tho syrup, and boil it for five minutes every day for a week, poui-ing it each time boiling hot over the fruit. At tho end of that time boil all together quickly for ten minutes. Lift the nectarines carefully out with a spoon, and put them into jars with a portion of the blanched kernels in each jar. Add the boiling syrup, and when cold tie down securely. Store in a cool dry place. Negus.—This popular beverage derives its name from its originator, Colonel Negus. The ingredients of which it is composed are either port or shen-y and hot water, the quantity of the water being double that of the wine. Sweeten with lump sugar, and flavour with a little lemon-juice, and grated-nutmeg, and a morsel only of the yellow rind of the lemon. It is an improvement to add one drop of essence of ambergris, or eight or ten drops of essence of vanilla to every twelve glasses or so of negus. Negus (another way).—Sweeten the wine according to taste, and grate a little nutmeg into it. The proportions are generally three ounces of sugar and a quarter of a small nutmeg to a pint of port. Mix with it an equal quantity of boiling water, and serve either hot or cold. The thin rind of a lemon or a Seville orange, without any of the inside of the fruit, is a great improvement to negus. Time, a ^ew minutes to prepare. Probable cost, according to the quality of the wine. Sufficient for a quart of negus. Nesselrode Pudding.—Peel two dozen Spanish chestnuts. Put them into boiling water for five minutes, then take oS the second skin, and boil them until tender with half a stick of vanilla and half the thin rind of a fresh lemon in the water with them. Drain them well, and pound them in a mortar. Press them through a . hair-sieve, and mix with them a quarter of a * pound of powdered sugar, a glass of maraschino, and half a pint of thick cream. Dissolve three- quarters of an ounce of best isinglass in a little water, stir it into half a pint of hot cream, add the chestnuts, &c., and keep stirring the mix- ture gently until it is sufficiently stifE to hold the fruit without letting it fall to tho bottom. Work in two ounces of picked and dried cur- rants, and two ounces of candied citron cut into thin strips. Put the mixture into an oUed mould, and sot in a cool place to stiffen. Time, about three-quarters of an hour to boil the chestnuts. Probable cost, 3s. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Nesselrode Pudding (another way).— Peel about two dozen Spanish chestnuts. Tlirow them into boiling water, and let them remain for five minutes. Drain them, take off tho second skin, and put them into a saucepan with a pint of water and lialf a stick of vauilk, and let them siuuner until quite tender; then pound in a mortar to a sniootli paste, and press them through a fine sieve. Mix the well-beaten yolka of four eggs with a pint of warm cream, and. add four ounces of loaf sugar. Put the custard into a jug, place it in a pan of boiling water, and stir it gently until it thickens. Put in the pounded chestnuts, and pass the mixture through a tamis. Add a glass of marascliino, and freeze in the ordinary way. Take one ounce of stoned raisins, one ounce of candied citi'ou cut into slices, and one ounce of dried and picked cur- rants. To prepare them, let them soak in a little maraschino mixed with a small quantity of sugar for several hours, or let them simmer gently in syrup for about twenty minutes, then drain and cool them. When the pudding is set, put the fruit in with it. Boil a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar and a quarter of a pint of water to a syrup, beat it briskly with a wooden spoon for a few minutes, mix with it the whites of three eggs which have been whisked to a firm froth. Work these into the pudding, and add last of all half a pint of whipped cream. Place the pudding in an ice-mould, put on the hd, freeze, and turn out when wanted. Pro- bable cost, 38. 6d. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Nettle.—The common nettle is one of a tribe of plants which includes the fig, the hop, and others employed as food. Nettles are used as an article of d'et in some parts of the country. They are wholesome, and almost medicinal in their properties. Nettle Beer.—The stalks and leaves of the nettle are used in some parts of England for making a light kind of beer, which may be seen advertised at stalls, and in humble shops in 3ilanchester and other towns. Nettle, Rennet of.—In the "Western Islands of Scotland a rennet is prepared by adding a quart of salt to three pints of a strong decoction of nettles, a table-spoonful of which is said to be sufficient to coagulate a bowl of milk. Nettle Tops.—The young tops of the common and smaller nettles may be boiled as pot-herbs during spring, and eaten as a sub- stitute for greens; they are not only nourishing, but mildly aperient. Nettles, Spring, To BoU.—In many country-places nettles are eaten freely as a vegetable in the early part of the year, as they are considered excellent for purif jang the blood. The young hght green leaves only should be taken. They must be washed carefully and boiled in two waters, a little salt and a very small piece of soda being put in the last, water. When tender, turn them into a colander, press the water from them; put them into a hot vegetable dish, score them across three or four times, and serve. Send melted butter to table in a tureen. Time, about a quarter of an hour to boil. Probable cost, uncertain, nettles being seldom offered for sale. Sufficient, two pound* for four persons.NOB ( 457 ) NEU Neufchatel Pudding—Boat the yolks of four eggs briskly for thi-ee or four minutes, then put them into a saucepan, and with them the whites of two eggs, eight ounces of fresh butter, and four ounces of pounded and sifted sugjir. Stir gently over a slow fire for twenty minutes or more. Lino a pie-dish with good puff-paste. Spread on the bottom a layer of either orange marmalade, or apricot jam, pour the mixture on the top, and bake in a good even. Sift a little sugar over the pudding before serving. Time to bake, about a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for foui- persons. New College Puddings.—Shred a quar- ter of a pound of beef-suct very finely, mix with it four ounces of finely-grated bread- crumbs, or, if preferred, powdered sweet biscuit, add a quarter of a pound of currants, a pinch of salt, two table-spoonfuls of sugar, half a nutmeg grated, and an ounce of finely-shred candied peel. Mix the dry ingredients thoroughly, moisten them with three well-beaten eggs, add as much milk as will make them of the proper consistence, and fry them in spoonfuls, in a little hot butter, till they are brightly browned on both sides. Shake the pan frequently to prevent them burning, and turn them over when one side is sufficiently cooked. Arrange them neatly on a hot dish, and strew sifted sugar thickly over them before serving. Time, six or eight minutes to frj'. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. New England Pancakes.—Mix three table-spoonfuls of tine flour very smoothly with a little cold milk. Add gradually half a pint of cream, a small pinch of salt, the well-whisked yolks of four and the whites of two eggs, a hfeaped table-spoonful of sifted sugar, and two or three drops of lemon, ahnond, or any other flavoming. Let the batter stand for an hour before it is cooked, then fry it in pancakes as thin as possible. Strew a little sifted sugar and powdered cinnamon upon each pancake, and roll it round before putting it in the dish. Serve very hot. Time, five minutes to fry each pancake. Probable cost. Is. 2d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Newmarket Pudding.—Put a pint and a quarter of good milk into a saucepan, with three ounces of sugar, a bay-leaf, the thin rind of half a lemon, and a little piece of stick cinnamon. Simmer gently for ten minutes. Let the mUk cool, then mix vnth. it the well- whisked yolks of five and the whites of three fresh eggs. Strain the mixture through a fine sieve. Butter a pie-dish. Put a layer of thin bread and butter at the bottom, then a layer of currants and stoned-and-chopped raisms. Kepeat until the dish is nearly full. Pour the custard over, let the bread soak for an hour, and bake in a moderate oven. Time, about three- quarters of an hour to bake. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for five or six persons. New York Plum Cake {see Plum Cake, New York). Nightcap.—Simmer half a pint of ale, and when on the point of boiling pour it out; grate half a quarter of a nutmeg into it, and add a P* tea-spoouful of moist sugar, and two table- spoonfuls of brandy. Drink the nightcap the last thing before getting into bed. Time, five minutes to heat the ale. Sufficient for one person. Nightcap, Bishop Oxford {see Bishop Oxford Nightcap). Nockerl.—Beat two ounces of fresh butter to a cream; mix smoothly with it two ounces of dried flour, the well-beaten yolks of two eggs, and the white of one; add a pinch of salt, and the eighth of a small nutmeg grated. Spread the mixture on a flat dish, and put it in a cool place for a couple of hours. A few minutes before it is wanted, put a little broth or milk into a saucepan, and let it boil. Take the mixture up in small quantities, form these into shape with a wet spoon, being careful to handle them as little as possible, and drop them into the boiling liquid. When done enough, drain them, grate a little Parmesan over them, and serve as hot as possible. Time, six or eight minutes to boil. Probable cost, 7d. Sufficient for two or three persons. Nonesuch Pudding.—Grate the rind of a large fresh lemon upon three ounces of loaf sugar; crush it to powder, and mix it with four ounces of dried flour. Beat a quarter of a pound of fresh butter to a cream. Add gradually and smoothly the sugar and flour, two ounces of raisins, stoned and chopped small, and five eggs well-beaten. Mix thoroughly, and pour the pudding into a buttered mould; plunge it into boiling water, turn it out before serving, and send some good custard or wine sauce to table with it. Time to boil, two hours. Probable cost. Is. Sufficient for three or four persons. Nonpareil Liqueur. — Take a fully- ripe pine-apple, and pare ofl' the outside skm; bruise it in a mortar; add one dozen and a half of sharp ripe white magniim bonum plums, and one dozen of ripe jargonelle pears quartered; then to every four pounds of fruit add six pounds of loaf-sugar and three pints of water. Put the whole into a preserving- pan, and boil for three-quarters of an hour, taking off the scum as it rises. Then put it into a can or jar until cold; add three quarts of gooseberry-brandy, and let it stand for six weeks ; pass it through the jelly-bag. This i» a very fine liqueur. Norfolk Biffins, Dried.-The Norfolk beefing, or biffin, is the name given to a hard, sweet apple well knowTi in Norfolk, which is remarkable for being rosy coloured both inside and out, and which is prepared by being baked gently in the oven, flattened into the form of a round cake, and so preserved. Biffins may afterwards be stewed, like Normandy pippins, or made into pies. They may be purchased ready dried, but if prepared at home should be baked very gently, taken out every now and then to cool, slightly flattened, and then put into the oven again. If great care is not taken they will burst, and so be spoilt. Probable cost, uncooked, 28. per poimd. Norfolk Dumplings.—Beat two eggs thoroughly. Add a cupful of milk, a pinch ofNOT ( 468 ) NOR Wilt, and as much flour as will muko u atifi batter. liavo roady a pan of i'aBt-boiliug wat(!r. Drop the batter iuto it, iu huuiU luuipa, and when boiled enough, Borvo immediately ; if allowed to stand, the dumplings will become hoavy. Tinio to boil, ton minutes. Trobable cost, Id. Sutlicient for four persons. Norfolk Dumplings (another way).— \Vht>n bread is nKKle at home, take a little of the dough just ready for the oven, make it up into small balls about the size of an orange, drop thom into fast-boiling water, and when done enough, drain thom, and servo imme- diately. Send' melted butter, sweetened and iiavoui-od with lemon juice, to table with them. The dumplings should be torn apart with two forks when they are eaten, or they will be heavy. To ascertain if they are done enough, stick a fork quickly into them; if it come out clear, they are sufficiently cooked. Time, about a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, 3d. Suf- ficient, one pound of dough for about four people. Norfolk Punch.—Take the rind of six- teen fresh lemons and sixteen Seville oranges, pared so thinly as to be quite free from white. Put them into an earthenware jar, pour over thom two quarts of brandy, and let them in- fuse for forty-eight hours. Strain the brandy, mix with it a syrup made by boiling two pounds of loaf sugar with three quarts of water until quite clear. The syrup must have become cold before it is added to the brandy; add the strained and filtered juice of the oranges and lemons; mix thoroughly, put the liquor into a perfectly clean spirit-cask, or into a jar; let it remain for six weeks, when it may be bottled or not, as is most convenient. This punch will improve with keeping : some persons add a pint of new mUk before putting it into the cask. Probable cost, 3s. 6d., exclusive of the brandy. Sufficient for a gallon and a half of punch. Norfolk Rice.—Pick off the white meat from a diied haddock. Tear it into shi-eds with two forks, and mix with it the whites of thjee hard-boiled eggs, a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, and an equal quantity of rice boiled as if for currj% and shaken over the fire with a little fresh butter until quite hot. Pile high on a hot dish; mix the yolks of the eggs with a little grated Parmesan, and strew the mixture over the rice and fish. Put the dish in the oven, or hold a hot iron shovel over it, to brown it slightly, and garnish with fried sippets. Serve as hot as possible. Time, five minutes to colour the rice. Probable cost, Is. 3d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Norfolk's Pudding, Duke of [see Duke of Norfolk's Pudding). Norman Haricot of Veal {see Veal, Norman Haricot of). Normandy Pippins.— Take half a pound of Normandy pippins. Let them soak for an hour or two in a pint and a half of water in which has been put an inch of whole ginger and a quarter of a tea-spoonful of pow- dered cinnamon. At the end of that time put them into a stowpan, with the thin rind of a largo hmon and two ounces of sugar, and let thom sinunor gently until they are lialf done, then add other two ounces of sugar. When quite tender, take out the pip]jin8, and place them in a glass dish: stmin the gmvy, 11avom- it if wished either with a glass of port or the strained juice of the lemon, pour it over the pippins, and place a small piece of lemon-rind upon each. Normandy pippins are delicious when oaten with Dovonshiro cream, and the appearance of the dish is improved if a small knob of cream is placed between the apples. Time to stow, al>out three hours. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Sufficient for four or five persons. Normandy Pippins. Stewed (another way).—Take half a pound of inppinB. Soak them as in the last recipe ; or, if time is a con- sideration, put them into a saucepan with as much cold water as will cover them, let them simmer very gently for twenty minutes, then drain the water from them, and let them get cold. Put them into a clean saucepan, with half a pint of water, a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, the thin rind and strained juice of a lemon, a Seville orange, a St. Michael's orange, an inch of stick cinnamon, two cloves, and a glass of sherry. Simmer verj' gently until the pippins are quite tender but im- broken. Take them out, put them in a glass dish, boil the syrup quickly for ten minutes, and strain it over the fruit. Devonshire cream, or a little ordinary thick cream, is a great im- provement to this dish. Serve cold. One or two drops of prepared cochineal will improve the colour. Time, about thi'ee hours to stew the pippins. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Sufficient for five or six persons. Northumberland's Pudding, Duke of (see Duke of Northumberland's Pudding). Norwegian Puddings.—Beat a quarter of a pound of fresh butter to a cream, mix with it a quarter of a pound of ground rice, one ounce of fine flour, a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar, half a tea-spoonful of baking- powder, and any flavouring that may be pre- ferred. Add two well-whisked eggs, and beat all briskly together for four or five minutes. Butter some cups, three-parts fill them with the mixture, and bake in a quick oven. Turn out the puddings when done enough, put them on a dish, and pour over them half a pint of good wine sauce, boiling hot. Sprinkle some powdered sugar over them, and serve at once. Time to bake, about half an hour. Probable cost, 9d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Nottingham Pudding.—Take half a dozen large apples of uniform size. Pare and core without breaking them, and fill the centre of each with a little butter, some moist sugar and grated nutmeg. Put them sid(T by side in a well-buttered pie-dish, and cover them with r light batter made as follows i—l^ILx six table spoonfuls of flour very smoothly with a littlr cold water, add three well-beaten eggs, a pincl of salt, and milk sufficient to make the balloi of the consistence of thick cream. This will be about three-quarters of a pint. Bake theNOIT NOT ( 459 ) pudding in a moderate oven. The batter will be better if made an hour or two before it is wanted. Time to bake, a hour and a half. Probable cost, 9d. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Nottingham Pudding (another way).— See Apple Tuddiug, Nottingham. Nougat.—Nougat is a sort of paste made of sugar, alinonds, pistachio nuts, or filberts, and used by confectioners for makiag pretty sweet dishes. A little practice is necessary before it can be well made. The process is as follows:—Blanch one pound of Jordan almonds, dry them well in a soft cloth, cut them into quarters, put them on a baking sheet in a cool oven, and let them remain imtil quite h6t through and lightly browned. When they are nearly ready, put half a pound of sifted sugar into a copper pan, without any water, move it about with a wooden spoon. When it is melted and begins to bubble, stir ia the hot almonds gently, so as not to break them. Have ready the mould which is to be used, slightly but thoroughly oiled, and spread the paste all over it about a quarter of an inch thick. This is the difficult part of the operation, as the nougat hardens very quickly. The pan in which it is should be kept in a warm place, to prevent it stiffening before the mould is finished. It is a good plan to spread out a piece for the bottom of the mould first, and put that in its place, then pieces for the s'des. Care must be taken, however, to make these pieces stick closely together. A cut lemon dipped in oil is a great assistance in spreading the paste. When the nougat is firmly set, turn it out carefully, and serve it on a stand filled with whipped cream, or as required. Time to boil the sugar, till it is well melted. Probable cost, 2s. for a good-sized mould. Nougat, Almond {see Almond Nougat). Nougats (a la Fran9aise).—For dessert.— Prepare the nougat as in the last recipe. If preferred, pistachio kernels may be used instead of almonds, and the sugar may be coloured with cochineal, and flavoured with vanilla. When the paste is ready, spread it out on an oiled slab to the thickness of a quarter of an inch, strew coloured sugar or nonpareil comfits on the surface, mark it into oblong shapes, and cut it before it is cold. It should be stored in a tin box in a dry place until wanted for use, and should be served, piled up prettily, on a napkin. Nougats, Small.—Nougats intended for small moulds should be made in the same way as for large ones, excepting that the almonds should be finely shred instead of being quar- tered. When the paste is ready, put it into the small oiled moulds, and take care that it is pressed into aU the comers. It is well for three or four persons to be engaged at once in filling the moulds, that they may be done as expeditiously as possible, and so be all of one colour, as the nougat gets darker with being melted. Turn the shapes out when set, fill them with whipped cream, and serve, neatlv arranged, on a folded napkin. Probable cost, Jordan almonds, 2s. 6d. per pound; aweet almonds. Is. Nouilles.—Nouilles are made of delicate pastry, cut up into ribands and various shapes, and used as a substitute for vermicelli and macaroni, either in making fritters or puddings, or for serving with cheese, or in soup. They are made as follows:—Take half a pound of fine flour, put it on the pastry-board, make a hole in the centre, and in this put two eggs. Add a pinch of salt, half an ounce of butter, and a tea-spoonful of cold water, and mix aU to- gether into a very firm, smooth paste. Leave it a little while to dry, then roll it out as thin as possible, and cut it into thin bands about an inch and a quarter in width. Dredge a little flour upon these, and lay four or five of them one above another, then cut them through into thin shreds, something like vermicelli; shako them well, to prevent their sticking together, and spread them out to diy. Nouilles cannot be made without a straight rolling-pin and smooth pastry-board. When wanted for use, drop them gradually into boiling water, stirring gently with a wooden spoon to keep them from getting lumpy. Let them boU from six to twenty minutes, then take them up with a strainer, drain them well, and spread them out on a coarse cloth. Besides thread-like nouilles, a few may be made the size and shape of scarlet-runner beans, or small birds' eggs, or they may be cut broad like macaroni. If thoroughly dried, they wiU keep any length of time stored in tin canisters. Probable cost, 3d. for this quantity. Nouilles, Boiled in Milk.—Take three- quarters of a pound of freshly-made nouilles cut very fine and dried. Dissolve a little butter in a stewpan, put in the nouilles, and shake the pan over the fire until they are well browned. Pour over them as much good milk as will cover them well, and let them simmer gently until they are quite soft. Add two table-spoonfuls of sugar and three well-beaten eggs, steam a few minutes longer, and serve as hot as possible. Time to boil the nouilles, until soft, from ten to fifteen minutes. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Nouilles, Buttered.—Throw the nomUes into boiling water, and let them boil for three minutes. Take them up with a strainer, put them on a hot dish ; melt some fresh butter in a stewpan ; sprinkle a large handful of bread- crumbs in it, and let them remain until they are lightly browned, then put them upon the nouilles. Clarify a little more butter, if the first portion was dried up in browning the crumbs, and pour it over the dish; serve very hot. Time, ten minutes to boil the nouilles. Nouilles, Fritters of (delicious eaten cold). — Make a poimd of flour into nouilles pastry, as already directed {see Nouilles). Cut it into thin strips; boil a pint and a half of cream or new milk in a saucepan. Dissolve in it six ounces of fresh butter, add a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar which has been well rubbed upon the rind of a large fresh lemon, [ and a pinch of salt. Drop the pastry into theNOY ( 460 ) NOU boiling liquid, and simmer pcntly for threc- quartors of an hour, \intil it lias become a stili' pasto. Take it from tlio tiro, and when it is cool etu- briskly in with it tho well-beaton yolks of six oggs. Spread it out on a largo buttered baking-tin, about a qmirtor of an inch thick, jind bako in a modorato oven ; when brightly coloured, take it out, divide it in halves, put one half upon a largo Hat dish, spread some jam thickly over, place tho other half upon it, pressing it lightly with tho fingers, and wlicn quite cold, stamp it in small shapes with an ordinaiy pastry-cuttor. Serve neatly arranged on a napkin. These cakes should bo prepared the day they ai-e wanted for use, as they do not improve with keeping. Time to bako, twenty minutes. Probable cost. Is. lOd., if simmered in milk. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Nouilles, Genoises de {see Genoises de Nouillcs). Nouilles Pudding.—Make some nouilles pastry as before directed. Cut and dry tho nouilles, throw them into boiliug water, and let them simmer imtil soft. Take them up with a strainer, and stir into them, while hot, two ounces of fresh butter; beat three ounces of butter to a cream, mix with it the well-whisked yolks of three eggs, and add this to the rest. Butter a pudding mould rather thickly, cover the inside with bread raspings; whisk the whites of the eggs to a firm froth. Gently stir them into the pudding, put it into the mould, and bake in a moderate oven. Time to bake, about haK an hour. Probable cost. Is. Suf- ficient for four or five persons. Nouilles, Rolled (a German recipe).— Roll out some nouilles pastry as thin as possible, then, instead of cutting it into threads as before directed (see Nouilles), cut it into rounds about the size of a crown-piece, sprinkle a little finely-minced ham, mixed with parsley and any seasoning that may be wished, upon each, and roll it up. Put the rolls in a stewpan, pour over them a little broth, and let them simmer very gently for an hour. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Nouilles, Soup of.—Make half a pound of flour into nouilles at directed. Cut it into strips, and spread it on a sheet of paper in a warm place to dry. Take three pints of any nicely seasoned soup; put it on the fire, and when it is boiling, drop the nouilles gra- dually in with one hand, and with the other stir them gently with a wooden spoon, to keep them from getting into lumps. They will swell considerably in the liquid. Ser\^e as hot as possible. Time to boil the nouilles, ten minutes. Probable cost of nouilles, 3d. Suf- ficient for six or seven persons. Nouilles Turnovers.—Nouilles turn- overs are slightly similar to nouilles rolls. Make the pastry rather softer than usual by adding a little water, roll it out very thin, cut into pieces the shape of an egg, about two inches across, and cover half the surface of each with a little fruit finely-minced, sweetened, and flavoured, and mixed with » few bread-crumbs. TiAn the other halves over, fasten the edges securely, put tho turnovers into a little boihng water, and let them simmer gently imlil done enough. Drain them well, and serve them on a hot dish with powdered sugar sprinkled thickly over them. Time to simmer, one hour. I'robable cost, 8d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Nouilles, with Ham.—Prepare some nouilles paste as dii-ected in the preceding recipe. Simmer for sbc minutes, drain, and diy them; put them into a saucepan, with a pint and a half of boiling gravj', one ounce of fresh butter, three ounces of boiled liam (fat and lean together cut into dice), and two ouncea of grated Pai-mesan, or, if preferred, any other cheese which is not strong in flavour. Mix lightly with a wooden spoon, taking care not to break the nouilles, add pepper and salt if required, and serve in a hot vegetable dish, accompanied by hot buttered toast, and a little good mustard. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Suf- ficient for six or eight persons. Nouilles with Parmesan, or au Gratin.—Make half a pound of flour into nouilles paste, as directed in the last recipe. Cut it into strips, and boil these for ten minutes in three pints of water, slightly salted. Take them out, drain them, and put them into a stewpan, with a pint of milk or gravy, an ounce of butter, the eighth of a nutmeg grated, and a pinch of salt and pepper. Simmer gently until all the liquid has been absorbed, then add another quarter of a pint of either cream or gravy, a quarter of a pound of grated Parmesan, and another ounce of butter; shake the pan over the fire, until the cheese is melted. PUe the mixture high in a buttered dish> sprinkle over it one oimce of grated Parmesan, a table-spoonful of finely-grated bread-crumbs, and the yolk of a hard-boiled egg passed thi'ough a sieve and powdered. Place the dish in the oven for a few minutes, or hold a red-hot iron shovel over it until it is lightly coloured, and serve as hot as possible. Time, altogether^ an hour and a quarter. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for six or eight persons. November, Fifth of, Gingerbread for the {see Gingerbread Parkin). Noyeau.—Noyeau is a liqueur prepared in the island of Martinique, in the West Indies, from a berry which grows there. It requires to be used with great care, as it is not whole- some. Imitations of it are very common, as the real article is rare and expensive. Two or three recipes are here given. Noyeau, Imitation.—This is a liqueur with an agreeable nutty taste. It should only be partaken of, however, in ^^rnaU quantities in consequence of the considerable propoiiion of prussic acid which it contains. Take three ounces of bruised bitter almonds, one quart of spirit, and a pound of sugar dissolved in tlirec- quarters of a pint of water. ]\Iacerate for ten days, shaking thv-^ vessel at frequent intervals . at "the end of that time let it rest for a few days, then decant the clear liquid. Apricots or peach- kernels, with the shells bruised, may be sub- stituted for the almonds.NUN ITOY ( 461 ) Noyeau (another way—for immediate use). —Lxather quarter of a poimd of younj,' poach leaves on a di-y, sunny day. Put them into a jar, and pour over them two pints of good brandy or whisky, and leave them to infuse for a couple of days.' Add a S)-rup made by dissolving a pound of sugar in a pint of water. Let the noyeau remain a few houi-s longer, then filter it carefully, and it is ready for use. Probable cost, micertain, peach leaves being seldom sold. SuiUcient for three pints and a half of noyeau. Noyeau (another way).—Blanch and pound three oimccs of peach, apricot, or nectarine kernels. Put them into a jar, pour over them •;i quart of French brandy, and leave them in a warm place for three days, shaking them fre- quently; add a pound of powdered and sifted sugax'-candy, and let the liquid stand a few hours longer; strain, and bottle for use. If preferred, one ounce of French prunes with their kernels can be substituted for a third of the apricot kernels, or a little thin lemon-rind may be added. This is a very agreeable liquoiu', but, like many other preparations of the same sort, it is not particulai'ly wholesome. Pro- bable cost, according to the price of the spirit. ^Sufficient for a quart of noyeau. Noyeau (made with honey). — Blanch and poimd thi-ee ounces of bitter and one of sweet almonds. Put them into a jar, pour over them a quart of pure brandy or whisky, and leave them to infuse for thi-ee days, shaking them every now and then. Strain the liquid carefully through filtering-paper, and add one pound of loaf sugar dissolved in half a pint of boiling water, and two table-spoonfuls of fijie lioney. Bottle for use. Probable cost. Is., exclusive of the spirit. Sufficient for three pints of noyeau. Noyeau (to be stored six months before being used).—Blanch and pound three ounces of bitter almonds and two ounces of sweet almonds to a smooth paste. Put them into a jar, and pour over them one quart of English gin. Add the thin rind of a small lemon if approved, and let the jar stand in a warm place for three days, and shake it well every day. At the end of that time dissolve one pound of loaf sugar in half a pint of boiling water, add the syrup to the contents of the jar, and leave it forty-eight hours longer, shaking it every now and then. Strain the liquid carefully, put it into bottles, and cork it closely. The liqueur will improve with keeping. The best way to strain the noyeau is to put four or five thin pieces-of wood inside a funnel, then cover these with doubled white blotting-paper, and pour in the liquid. Patience will be required, as sjTup docs not quickly filtrate. French brandy may with advantage be substituted for the gin. Probable cost, 8d., exclusive of the gin. Suf- ficient for three pints. Noyeau Cream.—Dissolve one ounce of best Kussian isinglass in half a pint of water, ndd four ounces of loaf sugar, the strained jiuce of a small lemon, and one pint of thick roam, together with a little noyeau. The <iuaniity must be regulated by the strength of the noyeau, as well as by taste. Pour the liquid into a well-oiled mould, and put it in a cool, dry place to set. Turn it out carefully before serving. Time, half an hour to dissolve the isinglass. Probable cost, 3s., exclusive of the noyeau. Sufficient for a quart mould. Noyeau Ice Creams.—Sweeten half a pint of thick cream with two ounces of sugar. Add a table-spoonful of strained lemon-juice and a glass of noyeau. IMix thoroughly, and freeze in the usual way. Time, half an hour to freeze the mixture. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for a pint of ice cream. Noyeau Jelly.—Dissolve one ounce of best Eussian isinglass in half a pint of water. Add one pound of loaf sugar boiled to a syrup in half a piut of water, the strained juice of a lemon, and a glass of noyeau. Strain the joUy ' untn it is clear, pour it into a damp mould, and ; put it into a cool place to set. Turn it out on a glass dish just before it is wanted. Time to '.. clarify the isinglass, half an hour. Probable cost, exclusive of the noyeau. Is. 8d. Sufficient for one pint and a half of jelly. Noyeau Jelly with Almonds.—Pre- pare one pint and a half of jelly according to the directions given in the last recipe. Blanch two ounces of almonds, cut them into thin shreds, and throw them into cold water. When the jolly is quite clear, put a little of it at the bottom of a damp mould. Let it set, then sprinkle half a tea-spoonful of the almonds upon it, and pour a little more jeUy on. Repeat untn the mould is fuU. Put the mould in a cool place, and turn the jeUy out when quite stiff. A little whipped cream may be put round it in the dish. Time, half an hour to clarify the isinglass. Probable cost, 2s., exclusive of the noyeau. Sufficient for a pint and a half mould. Nuns' Balls.—Roll haK a pound of good pufiE-paste into a long piece about a quarter of an inch thick. Stamp it out in rounds the size of a five-shilling piece, lay upon half of these a tea-spoonful of jam, and cover them over with the other halves. Press the edges securely. Fry the balls in hot butter until they are lightly browned. Drain the fat well from them, and serve them, piled on a hot napkin, with pounded and sifted sugar thickly strewn over them. Time to fry, about ten minutes. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for three or four persons. Niuis' Balls (another way).—Prepare the pastry as in the last recipe, but instead of putting jam upon the rounds, put a tea-spoon- ful of a nnxture prepared as foUows:—Grate very finely a quarter of a pound of good cheese. Beat it well in a mortar, and mix with it two table-spoonfuls of fine bread-crumbs, the yolks of three eggs well-beaten, and a little salt and cayenne. Fasten the edges securely, and fry in hot butter until lightly browned. Drain thoroughly from the fat, and serve hot, piled high on a napkin. Time, ten minutes, to fry the balls. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for three or four persons. Nuns' Biscuits.—Take four ounces of sweet almonds, and five or six bitter ones.NUN ( 462 ) OAT Blanch thorn, and pound thorn in a mortar to a smooth paste, and kcop dropping? a little orange-flower water on them to prevent them oiling. Hub the yellow rind of two largo fresh lemons upon half a pound of loaf sugar, crush it to powder, sift it well, and nux it with tho ahuonds; add two ounces of dried flour, a table-spoonful of finely-minced candied citron, tho yolks of sLx eggs well beaten, and last of all tho whites whisked to a firm froth. Put a spoonful or two of tho mi.xturo into some arnaH patty-pans well buttered, and bake in a moderate oven. When they are brightly browned, turn them out of the pans, put them upon baking-tins, and place them again in tho oven to harden. Time to bake, about twenty minutes. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Nuns' Cake.—Beat eight ounces of fi-esh butter to a cream ; add half a pound of lino flour, a small nutmeg grated, eight ounces of powdered sugar, the well-beaten yolks of four eggs, and a table-spoonful of cold water. Mix thoroughly, then stir in the whites of two of the eggs whisked to a solid froth. Work all briskly together for some minutes. Pour the mixture into a buttered mould, and, being care- ful to leave room for it to rise, bake in a mode- rate oven for about an hour. Probable cost, Is. 4d. Sufficient for a quart mould. Nuremberg Egg.—Put an egg in boil- ing water, and let it simmer gently for ten minutes. Take it out, remove the shell, and dip it in batter. Fry it ia hot butter imtil it is browned aU over, then dip it in agaia, and repeat this until the ball is sufficiently large. Serve on a hot dish, and pour wine-sauce over it. Time, according to size. Nuremberg Gingerbread.—Beat four eggs thoroughly; mix with them half a nut- meg grated, six pounded cloves, two ounces each of candied lemon and citron finely minced, and eight oimces of powdered sugar. Stir these briskly for ten minutes; then add very gradually half a pound of dried flour, a small piuch of salt, and half a quarter of an ounce of carbonate of soda dissolved in a little warm milk. When the ingredients are thoroughly blended, put with them eight oimces of sweet almonds blanched and sliced. Spread the mixture a quarter of an inch thick on wafer- paper, cut it into fingers, place these on ♦but- tered tins, and bake in a very moderate oven. Time, about half an hour to bake. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Nut Cakes, Hazel {sec Hazel-nut Cakes). Nutmegs are the seed of a small tree belonging to the natural order MjTisticacese. In Great Britain about 2,000 lbs. are consumed annually. Pereira mentions that to prevent the attacks of an insect known as the nutmeg insect, the nuts are frequently limed. For the Eng- lish market, however, the brown or unlimed nutmegs are preferred. " The Dutch lime them by dipping them into a thick mixture of lime and water ; but this process is considered to injure their flavour. Others lime them by rub- bing them with recently-prepared well-sifted lime. This process is sometimes practised in London." Nutmeg, Tmcture of. - Grate throe ounces of nutm. g ; put tho powder into a quai-i bottle, and fiU it up with good bmndy or spirits ot wmo. Cork it, and shake it wcU ever^ day for a fortnight, then pour olf tho liquid, IcavinL- the sediment behind. Put tho tincture int<> smaU bottles, cork these closely, and store foi- use. I'robablo cost, according to the quahty of tho spirit. SuHicieut, throe drops to flavouj- halt a pmt of liquid. Nutritive Drink. — Beat three effers thoroughly ; add a pint of cold water, two table-spoonfuls of sugar, two glasses of sheiry, and tho strained juice of a fresh lemon. Time, a few minutes to prepare. Probable cost, 4d.,' exclusive of tho wine. Sufficient to fill two tumblers. Nutritive Properties of Food [see Properties of Food, &c.). Nuts, American Dough [see Dough Nuts, American). o Oat-cake.—Oat-cakes, or oatmeal cakes, are very common in the North of England. They are eaten with butter or cheese, either toasted or plain. When first made they are quite soft, but after they have been dried before the fire for a few minutes they become crisp and hard. When made in perfection they are as thin as wafers, and are certainly very good eating, though not of a very satis- fying nature. They are baked on a bakestone, or backstone, which is a kind of thick frying- pan, made of iron or stone. Oat-cake.—Mix two or three table-spoon- fuls of oatmeal with a pinch of salt and a little cold water. Ivnead it well round and roimd with the hands for some minutes, then spread it on a pastry-board as thin as jjossible, and strew meal under and over it. Move it by means of a baking spittle to the bakestone, and bake it on both sides over a clear fire. It is well to mix sufficient oatmeal and water for one cake at a time, as the batter soon dries. Time, two or three minutes to bake the cakes. Probable cost, 3d. per dozen. Oat-cake, Lancashire.—In Lancashire oat-oakes are partially made either with butter- milk or with meal which has been mixed and left for a few days to turn sour. They are baked very much in the same way as in the preceding recipe. It is necessarj', however, to see these cakes made by some one accustomed to the work before attempting their manufacture. Oat-cake, made with Yeast.—Put a quart of water into a bowl, and mix with it one ounce of dissolved German yeast. . Sprinkle three and a half pounds of fine oatmeal into it, stirring it briskly all the time, and when the mixture is smooth and thick, place the bowl in a warm place, cover it with a cloth, and leave it half an hour to rise. Stir it wcU, spread it out very tlun, sprinkle a little oatmeal under and over it, and throw it upon the bakestone, which should be placed over a bi-ight fire; when lightlyOAT ( 463 ) OIL browned on one side, turn it on the other. The cakes may either be eaten soft, or hung to cnsp upon a cord which has been stretched across the kitchen. WTiile the cakes are baking, the dust of the oatmeal should be swept off with a small brush. 'lime to bake, two minutes. Probable cost, 4d. per dozen. Oatmeal.—Oats, in the form of oatmeal, are rich in tiesh-formers and heat-giyers, and serve as a nutritious and excellent diet when the occupation is not sedentary. The outer husk of oats, unlike wheat, is poor in albu- menoid matters, so that oatmeal is better than the whole oat as food. In making oatmeal, one quarter of oats (328 lbs.) yields 188 lbs. of meal and 74 lbs. of husks, the rest being water. Oatmeal is remai-kable for its large amount of fat. 100 parts contain : — Water 13-6 Albumenoid Matters . . . 17"0 Starch 39-7 Sugar 5 "4 Gum 3-0 Fat 5-7 Fibre 12-6 Mineral Matter . . . .3-0 Or, Water 13-6 Flesh and Force Producers . . 17'0 Force Producers . . • .66-4 Mineral Matters . . • .3-0 "One poimd of oatmeal, when digested and oxidised in the body, is capable of producing a force equal to 2,439 tons raised one foot high. The maximum of work which it will enable a man to perform is 488 tons raised one foot high. One pound of oatmeal can produce at the maxi- mum 2fozs. of dry muscle or flesh." "Oatmeal," Pereira remarks, " is an important and valuable article of food. With the exception of maize or Indian com, it is richer ra oily or fatty matter than any other of the cultivated cereal gi-ains; and its proportion- of protein compounds exceeds that of the finest English wheaten flour; so that, both in respect to its heat and fat making and its flesh and blood making principles, it holds a high rank." There are several kinds of oatmeal. One is known as round-oatmeal: it consists of the oats divested of the husk and ground into a very coarse powder. Another is Robinson's Patent Groats, which consist of the finest part of the oat-flour, all husk, and the outer and harder part of the grain being removed. "Roimd oatmeal" varies a good deal in quality: the better sorts have the outer surface of the oats of which they are composed rubbed oft" by attrition between two stones. Oatmeal is frequently adulterated with barley-meal, the dift'crence in price be- tween the two being a great inducement to dishonest traders. Barloy-mcal costs only about one half the price of oatmeal. Other substances used for adulterating oatmeal are whiting, plaster of paris, and burnt bones. In consequence of a pecuHar quality of the gluten which the oat contains, oatmeal does not admit of being baked into a light fermented bread. It has been alleged against oatmeal, that when it is employed as the sole food, without milk or animal diet, it causes heat and irritability of the skin, aggravates skin diseases, and sometimes gives rise to boils. Dr. Pereira, however, states that this charge has been made without sufficient gi-ounds. At all events, it is very rarely that circumstances render necessary for any length of time such an exclusive con- sumption of oatmeal. Oatmeal Bannocks.—Rub half an ounce of fresh butter into two and a half pounds o£ Scotch oatmeal, and stir briskly in as much, lukewarm water as will make it into a stiff paste. Sprinkle some oatmeal on the pastry- board, and spread the mixtui-e out into a round- cake, about half an inch thick and four inches in. diameter. Bake in a moderate oven for one hour.. Sufficient for ten or twelve persons. Probable cost. Is. Oatmeal Gruel.—Mix a table-spoonful of oatmeal very smoothly with a little cold water. Pour upon it a pint of boiling water, stir- it well, then let it stand for a few minutes tO' settle. Pour it back very gently into the sauce- pan, so as to leave undisturbed the sediment at the bottom of the gruel. Let it simmer, stirring occasionally and skimming it care- fully. It may be sweetened and flavoured with wine and spice, or be mixed with a little beer and grated ginger, or, if preferred, a little salt only may be put in. Dry toast or biscuits may be served with it. Time, a quarter of an hour to simmer. Probable cost. Id. Sufficient for one person. Oatliieal Gruel (another way).—See Gruel, Oatmeal. Oatmeal Hasty Pudding.—Mix atable- spoonful of flour, a table-spoonful of oatmeal,, and a pinch of salt smootlily with four table- spoonfuls of cold milk. Stir these gradually into a pint of boiling milk, and beat the mix- ture with a fork imtil it is quite smooth and free from lumps. Let it boil quickly for four or five minutes, pour it on small plates, and serve hot. Send cream and sugar, or treacle,, to table in a tui-een. When the Scotch or coarse oatmeal is used, it should be soaked all night in a little cold water, then added gradually to the boiling milk, and beaten as above. If preferred the flour may be omitted al- together and oatmeal only may be used. Time to boil the pudding, twenty minutes. Probable cost, 4d. Sufficient for two persons. Oatmeal Porridge.—Put some water in a saucepan on the fire. Let it boil quickly, then throw in a pinch of salt. Sprinkle some oatmeal into the boiling water with the left hand, and at the same time beat it briskly with a fork held in the right to keep it from getting into lumps. When the porridge is sufficiently thick, draw the pan back a httle, put on the lid, and simmer gently till wanted, or about twenty minutes. Treacle, cream, milk, sugar, or butter may be eaten with it. The quantity of oatmeal will depend upon the taste of those who are to eat the porridge. Some people like it very thick, and others quite thin. Probable coat, Id. per plateful {see Porridge, Oatmeal). Oil.—Under this name, as well as those of butter, fat, lard, suet, and grease, we have aOLD ( 464 ) OLI Bubstanco liirf?oly niiido uso of as food. Tho following tiiblo, for wliich wo aro indebted to tho loiirned compiler of the Catalogue of tho Food Collection now at Bethnal Greeu Museum, shows tho quantities of oil or fat in 100 lbs. of tho more conmion articles of food:— Vegetable Food. Potatoes 0-2 Wheat Flour 1-2 Bai-ley Meal 0-3 Oatmeal 5-7 Indian Meal 7-7 Eye '. 1-0 Peaa 20 Rico 0-7 Beana 2-0 Cocoa 50-0 liontils 2-0 Buckwheat 1-0 Tea 4-0 Coffeo ...... 12-0 ' Animal Food, Itilk ' 23-5 Pork 50-0 Veal 16-0 Beef 30-0 Mutton 40-0 Fish 7-0 Cheese 25-0 Old Currant Sauce, for Sucking- Pig, Venison, &C. — Boil two ounces of picked and clean cm-rants and three cloves in a quarter of a ijint of water for five minutes; add an oimce of fresh butter, a quarter of a pint of finely-grated bread-crumbs, and two glasses of port. Stir the sauce over a gentle fire until it boUs, then take out the cloves, and serve im- mediately. Time, a quarter of an hour. Pro- bable cost, 2d., exclusive of the wine. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Olio.—An oho is a Spanish dish, and con- sists of three or four difierent kinds of meat and vegetables stewed and served together. The fdlowing is a simple recipe:—Truss a chicken for boiling, brown it lightly in a little hot butter, then drain it, and put it into a saucepan with a pound and a half of mutton, a pound and a half of veal, and a pound of good rump-steak, all slightly browned. Add a pound of streaky bacon, and pour in as much boiling water as will cover the whole. Simmer gently for an hour, then add half a head of celery, a bunch of parsley, a dozen young onions, half a dozen carrots and turnips, and a pint of green peas, if they are in season, and boil gently until the vegetables are cooked enough. Salt and pepper must be added as required, and a small clove of garlic, if the flavour is liked. It is better to take out the bacon before the meat is served. Time, two hours. Probable cost, 7s. Sufficient for a dozen persons. Olio of Vegetables.—Slice half a dozen carrots, turnips, and onioas, and throw them into boiling water slightly salted. Let them boU a quarter of an hour, then put with them two heads of cabbage cut into halves, and two pounds of potatoes, and boil all together until they are soft. Drain them from the water, and mince them finely. Mix with them half a pound of spinach, a little salt and pepper, an ounce and a half of fresh butter, and a quarter of a pint of cream. Cover the saucepan closely and stow tho vegetables gently for half an hour! Before serving, thicken them by stirring in with them a piece of butter rolled in flour. The vegetables may bo varied according to tho season. Green peas, lettuces, cucumber, spring onions, spinach, &c., may bo cooked in the same way. Probable cost, according to tho vegetables used. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Olive Oil.—The principal oil used as food, obtained from the vegetable kingdom, is that of tho olive. " Provence oil, the i)roduce of Aix, is the most esteemed. Florence oil is the \irgin oil expressed from the ripe fruit soon after being gathered; it is imported in flasks sur- rounded by a kind of network, formed by the leaves of a monocotyledonous plant, and packed in haK chests; it is that used at table under the name of salad oil." Olive Pie, Beef.—Make a good force- meat of equal parts of suet and finely-grated bread-crumbs, with plenty of finely-minced parsley, a little pepper, salt, and grated nut- meg, and the well-beaten yolk of an egg. Cut thin shoes four inches long and two wide from the inside of a fillet of beef. Spread a layer of the forcemeat upon each slice, and roll it up securely. Place the rolls side by side in a deep pie-dish, and pile them high in the centre. Pour half a pint of gravy over them, line the edges of the dish with good crust, place a cover of the same on the top, and bake in a moderate oven. If it is wished the forcemeat can be omitted, and a small piece of fat put inside the rolls instead; the meat wiU then require seasoning with pepper and salt. A table-spoonful of ketchup and a table-spoonful of wine will improve the gravy. Time, about an hour and a quarter to bake the pie. Pro- bable cost, 3s. 6d. Sufficient for six persons. Olive Pie, Veal.—Line the edges of a pie-dish with good puff-paste. Cut two pounds of the fillet of veal into thin sHces a quarter of an inch thick, four inches long, and two wide. Make a forcemeat with four ounces of minced veal, four ounces of finely-shred suet, foui" ounces of grated bread-crumbs, three table-spoonfuls of chopped parsley, a tea-spoon- ful of mixed sweet herbs, four drachms of salt, two drachms of pepper, two drachms of pow- dered mace, two drachms of grated lemon-rind, and the well-beaten yolks of two eggs. Season the shoes of veal with a Httlo pepper and salt, place a slice of fat bacon upon each, and a Uttle of the forcemeat, and roU them up neatly and securely. Make tho forcemeat which remains into balls. Place these amongst the oUves in a pie-dish, pour half a pint of nicely-seasoned gravy over them, line the edges of the dish with a good crust, place a cover of the same over the top, brush tho pie with beaten egg, and bake in a good oven. The addition of a table- spoonful of lemon-juice and a glass of sherry, or a few sHced mushrooms, would greatly im- prove the gravy. This pie is good either cold or hot. Time, an hour and a half to bake.( 465 ) OLI OLL Probable cost, 48. 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Olive Sauce, for Ducks, Fowls, Beef- steaks, &C.—Take i'oiu- ounces of linO olives. Eemove the stones by cutting the fruit round and round in ribbons, in the same way that apples ai-e pared. By this means they %viU be the same shape when done that they were at first. Throw them into boiling water for three or four minutes, then drain them, and put them into cold water to soak until the salt taste is extracted. Drain them, and simmer them gently in thi-ee-quai-ters of a pint of good brown gravy- Serve very hot. A cut lemon should be sent to table with this sauce, so that a little of the juice may be squeezed in if the addition is approved. Time to simmer, half an hour. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Oliver's Biscuits.—Put two ounces of fresh butter into a saucepan with a quarter of a pint of mUk, and stii- over a gentle fire until the butter is melted. Add a pinch of salt and a dessert-spoonful of yeast, then mix in very smoothly three-quarters of a pound of fine flour. Knead the mixture weU, wrap it in a warmed cloth, put it into a bowl, and place it on a warm hearth for a quarter of an hour. Roll it out eight or nine times, leaving it at last a quarter of an inch thick. Stamp it into biscuits, with an ordinary cutter, prick these weU with a fork, and bake them upon tins, in a moderate oven, imtU the biscuits are lightly browned, say for about half an hour. Probable cost, 4d. Olives.—Olives are the fruit of the olive- tree, and are imported to this coimtry from France, Spain, and Italy. The Italian olives are the most highly-esteemed. They are used for dessert, or handed round between the courses as a whet to the appetite, and also to clear the OLIVES. palate. Choose them green and firm, and rf they are too salt lot them soak for a little while in cold water. Olives should never be allowed to remain uncovered in the bottle, or their appearance will bo spoilt- Olives (a la Reine).—Boil two pounds of mealy potatoes, and mix them very smoothly with six ounces of fine flour and two ounces of fresh butter. RoU the paste out, and stamp it into rounds a quarter of an inch thick and four inches in diameter. Put a small piece of cold roasted beef or veal in the middle of each round, moisten the edges with a little cold water, and di-aw the paste up into a ball. Frj-- the olives in hot fat until they are lightly browned all over, drain the fat from them, and serve on a hot dish. Send good brown gravy to table in a tureen. Time, about five minutes to fry the olives. Sufficient for six persons. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. Olives, Beef. — Cut a couple of pounds of mmp-steak into very thin slices, about four inches long and two inches broad. Have ready a nice forcemeat made of bread-crumbs, suet, parsley, herbs, egg, and plenty of pepper and salt. Put a little forcemeat on each piece of steak, roll it up tightly, fasten it with a small skewer or piece of string, dip the rolls into egg and bread-crumbs, and fry them in hot fat until they are slightly browned. Drain the fat away, and stew them for about half an houi' in a pint or rather less of stock. If the stock is very poor, a quarter of a pound of gravy beef will be required. Just before ser\ing, thicken the gravy with a little flour, and add some ketchup, or three dessert-spoonfuls of sherry or port. Time, five minutes to fry. Sufficieat for six persons. Cost, Ss. Olives, Beef (another way).—See Beef Olives. Olives, Duck with {see Duck with Olives). Olives, Preserving of.—Olives intended for preservation are gathered before they are ripe. The object of pickling them is to remove their bitterness and preserve them gi-een by impregnating them with brine. To effect this various plans are adopted. The fruit being gathered is placed in a lye composed of one jjart of quicklime to six of ashes of young wood sifted. It is left for half a day, and is then put into fresh water, which is renewed every twenty-four hours. From this the fruit is transferred to a brine of common salt dissolved in water, to which some aromatic herbs have been added. Olives will in this manner keep good for twelve months. Olives, Veal.—Proceed as for beef olives, substituting veal for beef. Place a thin slice of fat bacon or ham, of the same size and shape as the veal made with oKves, roll them up securely, brush them over with egg, dip them in bread- crumbs, roast them on a lark-spit, and serve on a hot dish with brown gravy and mush- rooms poured over them. Instead of being roasted, they may be stewed in a pint of veal stock, thickened with butter and flour, and garnished with beet-root or cucumber. Time, three-quarters of an hour to roast; one hour to stew. Probable cost, Ss. 6d. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Olla Podrida.—This is a Spanish national dish, consisting of several kinds of meat cut into small pieces and stewed with a variety ofOME OME ( 46G ) Tegetablos. It in much in favour with the poor, and is often kept ho lon^? tliat its odoui' and llavour both becomo highly ofi'onsivo, henco its mimo—olla podrida signifying x^utrid mess {see also Olio). Omelet. — An omelet is a simple, whole- some, inexpensive dish, but yet one in the paration of which cooks frecjuently fail, owing to ignorance of three or four important details! The flavouring may bo varied indefinitely, but the process is always the same. In making an omelet coi-o should be taken, first, that the fry- ing-pan is quite dry and hot. The best way to ensure this is to put a small quantity of fat into the pan, lot it boil, then pour it away, wipe the pan out with a cloth, and put in fresh fat. Second, the fat in which the omelet is to be fried should be very gently heated. Unless this is done, the fat will bo browned, and the colour of the omelet will be spoilt. Third, the number of eggs should not be large. It is better to make two or three small omelets than one very large one. The best omelets are made wth no more than six eggs. Fourth, the omelet pan should not be washed, it should be scraped and wiped dry with a cloth. If washed it is probable that the next omelet fried in it will be a failure. Fifth, a very small quantity only of salt should be put in. Salt keeps the eggs from rising. As to the method of preparation, see Omelet, Plain, and Principles of Cookery, p. iii. Eecipes for the following omelets, in addition to those on this and the following page, will be found under their respective headings :— Almond Rum Bacon ok Ham Salmon Cheese Savouky {See Prin- Ham ciples p. iii). Jam Sweet {See Pkin- KlDNETS CIPLES p. iv). Oysters Sweet-herb Potato Omelet (a la Celestine). — ]\Iix two eggs very smoothly with two ounces of dried flour. Add a small pinch of salt, two table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar, and half a pint of good milk. Dissolve an ounce of butter in a hot frying-pan, pour in two table-spoonfuls of the batter, and let it spread all over the pan. When firm, put a tea-spoonful of good jam and a dessert-spoonful of rich custard in the middle of the omelet, fold it over, and roll it round and round. Arrange the omelets neatly on a hot dish, sift a httle powdered sugar over them, and serve immediately. These omelets are sometimes made with beaten egg and sugar only. Time, three or four minutes to fry. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Omelet (aux fines herbcs).—Break six eggs into a basin. Beat them lightly, and mix with them a small pinch of salt and pepper, a heaped tea-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley, and half a tea-spoonful of minced onions, cloves, or sha- lots. Dissolve two ounces of fresh butter into a hot frying-pan, over a gentle fire. Pour in the mixture, and proceed as already described. Omelets may be extensively varied. A little mmced ham, or cooked vegetables, or fiah sauce or jam, may bo put in either with the eggs or placed m their centre wlien tliey are partially cooked, and the omelet should then be named after the peculiar flavouring. Time to fry, foui' or five minutes. Probable cost, 8d. Suflicieut for two or tliroe persons. Omelet, Cooking an.—""Where is the man or woman cook," reiufukH M. Soyer, "but say they kjiow how to make an omelet, and tlrnt to perfection h But this is rarely the case. It is related of Sarah, the Duchess of Marlborough, that no one could cook a ' fraiae,' as it was then called, for the great duke but herself. The great point is, if in an iion pan, it should bo very clean and free from damp, which sometimes comes out of the iron when placed on the fire. The best jjlan is to put it on the fire with a Uttlo fat, and let it get quite hot, or until the fat bums; remove it, and wipe it clean with a dry cloth, and then you win make the omelet to perfection." Omelet, Indian.—Break six eggs into a basin. Beat them sHghtly, then flavour them with a table-spoonful of young mint-leaves, finely-minced, and half a table-spoonful of either chopped onions, cloves, or leeks. Add half a salt-spoonful of salt, a salt-spoonful of cayenne, and a table-spoonful of cream. Fry the omelet in the usual way, being careful to keep it well together, so that it may be as thick as possible. Time to frj', six minutes. Probable cost, 9d. Sufficient for three persons. Omelet, Onion.—Cut a large Spanish onion into dice, and frj- these in a little hot butter unto, they are tender without being browned. Drain them from the fat, and mix with them half a dozen eggs shghtly beaten. Add a pinch of salt, two pinches of pepper, and a small portion of grated nutmeg, and frj- the omelet according to the directions already given. White sauce may be served with this dish. Time, five or six minutes to fry the omelet. Probable cost, 9d. Sufficient for three persons. Omelet-pan {see illustration accompanjdng the article, Bacon or Ham Omelet). Omelet, Plain.—The following recipe is by the often-quoted M. Soyer: "Break four eggs into a basin, add half a tea-spoonful of salt, and a quarter of a tea-spoonful of pepper, and beat them well up with a fork. Put into the frying-pan an ounce and a half of butter, lard, or oil; place it on the fire, and when hot pour in the eggs, and keep on mix- ing them quickly -with a spoon till they are delicately set; then let them sHp to the edge of the pan, laying hold by the handle, and raising it slantwise, which will give an elongated form to the omelet; turn in the edges, let it rest a moment to set, turn it over on a dish, and serve. It ought to be of a rich yellow cl)lour, done to a nicety, and as light and delicate as possible. Two table-spoonfuls of milk, and one oimce of the crumb of bread, cut into thin slices, may be added." Omelet, Potatoes.—iMash two oimcos of mealy potatoes, and mix with them four( 467 ) OME ONI fresh eggs, lightly beaten, a table-spoonful of powdered sugar, half a small nutmeg, grated, the strained juice of a liirge lemon, half a pint of new uulk, and two ounces of fresh butter. Beat the mixture tlioroughly for ten minutes, then fry it over a gentle fire in the usual way. Sift powdered sugar over before serving. Time, about eight minutes to fry. Probable cost, lod. Sufficient for three persons. Omelet Souf9.e- — An omelet souffle should be served in the same dish in which it is baked, and should be sent to table with the greatest expedition after it is taken out of the oven, as it falls and grows heavy very quickly. Break half a dozen fresh eggs into separate bowls. Whisk four of the yolks, and mix with them a tea-spoonful of dry flour, three table- spoonfuls of finely powdered sugar, a small pinch of salt, and any flavouring that may be preferred, such as grated nutmeg, lemon or orange rind, vanilla, &c. Butter the souffle- pan, to keep the omelet from sticking to it, whisk the whites of the six eggs to a firm froth, mix them lightly with the yolks, pour the mixture into the pan, and bake in a quick oven. When it is well risen and brightly browned on the top, the omelet is done enough. Sift a little sugar over it very expeditiously, and serve. Some cooks put a hot flannel round the pan to prevent its cooling on the way to the dining- room. Time to bake a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for two or three persons. Omelet Souflae, Moulded—Take four fresh eggs, and break the yolks and whites into separate basins. Beat the yolks well, and mix with them two table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar, a small pinch of salt, three macaroons finely-crumbled, a tea-spoonful of finely-minced canched-peel, and a dessert-spoonful of arrow- root. When these ingredients are thoroughly and smoothly mixed, add the whites of the eggs beaten to a firm froth. Pour the mix- ture into a weU-buttered, simply-marked mould, which should be so large that the omelet will no more than half fiU it, and bake in a mode- rate oven. When the souffle is set and lightly browned it is done enough. Turn it out, sift powdered sugar over it, and serve as expe- ditiously as possible. Time to bake, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for two or three persons. Omelet, with Cheese.—Prepare the eggs as for a plain omelet. Mix with them two ounces of finely-grated 'Pai-mesan cheese, a small pinch of salt, and two pinches of pepper. Fry the omelet in the usual way, and before folding it over strew an ounce of gruyere cheese finely-minced upon it. Fold, and serve immediately. Time, four or five minutes to fry. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for three persons. Omelet, with Cheese, Baked—Boat two eggs lightly, and mix with them a small pinch of salt, two pinches of pepper, three table-spoonfuls of now milk or cream, and two ounces of grated Parmesan. Pour the mixture into a buttered plate, bake in a quick oven, and serve immediately. Time to bake, fifteen minutes. Probable cost, 4d. or 5d. Sufficient for two persons. Omelet, with Gravy.—Whisk half a dozen fresh eggs thoroughly, and mix with them a small pinch of salt, two pinches of pepper, a table-spoonful of finely-minced parsley, half a tea-spoonful of chopped onions, and two table-spoonfuls of nicely-seasoned gravy. Dissolve two ounces of fresh butter in a hot frying-pan over a gentle fire, and fry the omelet in it in the usual way. Serve it on a hot dish with half a pint of good gravj-- poured round it. Time to fry, six or seven minutes. Probable cost, 9d. Sufficient for three or four persons.. Onion.—This weU-known vegetable may be regarded either as a condiment or as an article of real nourishment. By boiling it is deprived of much of its pungent, volatile oil, and becomes agreeable, mild, and nutritious. It is not so wholesome either fried or roasted. There is no vegetable about which there is so much diversity of opinion as there is about the onion; some pei'sons hking a little of it in every dish, and others objecting to it entirely. Generally speaking, however, a slight flavouring of onion is an improve- ment to the majority of made dishes, but it should not be too strong. The smell which GAELIC. LEEK. ONION. arises from the esculent during cooking, and the unpleasant odour it imparts to the breath of those who partake of it, are the principal objections which are urged against it. The latter may be partially remedied by eating a little raw parsley after it. When onions are used for stuffing, the unpleasant properties belonging to them would be considerably les- sened if a lemon, freed from the outer rind but covered as thickly as possible with the white skin, were put in the midst of them, and thrown away when the dish is ready for the table. Onions may be rendered much milder if two or three waters are used in boiling them. Spanish onions are not so strong as English ones, and are generally considered superior in flavour. The_ largest are the best. Onions, as well as garlic, shalots, chives, and leeks, contain a prin- ciple called allyle, to which they owe their peculiar flavour. When young, the onion isONI ( 468 ) ONI eaten raw, and it is also picklod, and made into a sauco by boiling, in whicli proec'ss much of the allylo is got rid of. It grows to a grout size in the south of Europe, and wlien imported into tliis country is boiled and eaten with meltod butter. Onion and Cabbage.—A slight flavour- ing of onion is a great iuiprovi'Miuiit to red cabbage pickle (sea Cabbage, lied. Pickled). Onion and Eggs,—Wash and pool a largo Spanish onion. Cut it into shoes about a quarter of an inch in thickness, strew a little salt and popper over these, and fry them in hot butter until they are tender, without being browned. Take the pieces up with an egg-slice to preserve them whole, drain well from the fat, and place them on a hot dish. Squeeze the juice of two large fresh lemons ■upon them. Have ready four poached eggs, place these on the onions, and servo imme- diately. Time, twenty minutes altogether. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for two or three persons. Onion and Sage Goose Stuffing {sec Goose-stuffing, Sage and Onion). Onion and Sage Stufllng for Geese, Duck, or Pork. — Wash, peel, and par- boil thi-ee large onions. If a strong flavour of onions is liked, the boiling can be omitted, and the onions used raw; if it is objected to, they may be boiled in one or two waters. Drain the onions, mince them finely, and mix with them an equal quantity of bread-crumbs, an ounce of butter, a small tea-spoonful of powdered sage, a tea-spoonful of salt, and half a tea-spoonful of pepper. Mix all the ingre- <iients thoroughly. The yolk of an egg is sometimes added, but it is oftener omitted. Spanish onions are always to be preferred to the ordinary ones for stuffing. Time to boil the onions, twenty minutes. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Onion Beef, German {see German Onion Beef). Onion, Chops Stewed with {see Chops Stewed with Onion). Onion, Forcemeat of {see Forcemeat of Onion). Onion Gravy {see Gravy, Onion). Onion Omelet {see Omelet, Onion). Onion Porridge (a country remedy for a cold in the head).—Peel a large Spanish onion, divide it into four, and put it into a saucepan with half a salt-spoonful of salt, two ounces of butter, and a pint of cold water. Let it simmer gently until it is quite tender, then pour it into a heated bowl, dredge a little pepper over it, and eat it as hot as possible just before going to bed. Time to boil the onion, about half an hour. Probable cost, 4d. Suf- ficient for one person. Onion, Potatoes Mashed with {see Potatoes Mashed witli Onion). Onion Sauce.—"Wliite onion sauces are generally served with boiled rabbits, roast mutton, and tripe, or, when superlatively made, with lamb and mutton cutlets. Tlio brown sauces are excellent with steaks, cutlets, sausag(;H, itc. Onion Sauce, Brown.—Peel and minco two mo(l(.ratu-si/.od Spanish onions very liuely. Fry tliom in two ounces of dissolved butter until they are lightly browned. Add lialf a pint of brown giavy uii.\ed smoothly with a dessert-spoonful of flour, and a little pejjper and siilt. Stir tlie anwv. over the fire for a lew minutes, and serve as hot as possiljle. Time, sLx or eight minutes to boil. Probable cost, 6d. Suflicient for four persons. Onion Sauce^ Brown (another way).— Peel two large onions, and cut away the ends. Divide them into thin slices, and lay them in salted water for an hour. Drain tliem, and fry them in a little butter xmtil they are lightly browned. Poui- over them half a pint of good brown sauce, and let them simmer untU tender. Add a little more sauce if required. Press them thi-ough a sieve. Eetum the puree to the saucepan, add an ounce of butter and a table-spoonful of glaze, simmer five or six minutes, and serve very hot. A tea-spoonful of dry mustard is sometimes mixed with the above sauce. Time, altogether, two hours. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for foui- or five persons. Onion Sauce, Brown, Piquant.—Fry the onions as in the last recix^e. When they are quite tender, pour over them half a pint of gravy mixed smoothly with a table-spoon- ful of floui-, add pepper and salt, if required, a lump of sugar, a dessert-spoonful of tarra- gon vinegar, and a glass of sheny. Stir the sauce over a gentle fixe for ten minutes, pass it through a strainer, and serve as hot as jiossible. A tea-spoonful of dry mustard is sometimes mixed with the above sauce. Probable cost, exclusive of the wine, 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Onion Sauce, German.—Peel tluoe or four large onions. Cut them into small jjieces, and boil them until tender in as much good stock as will cover them. Stir in with them, whilst boiling, a tea-spoonful of caraway-seeds. Mix two ounces of flour smoothly with two ounces of butter and a little of the hot liquid; add it to the rest, season with pepper and salt, simmer gently over the fire for ten minutes, and serve very hot. Time, one horn*. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Onion Sauce, White. — Take two Spanish onions or four largo' ordinary ones. Peel them, slice oft" the ends, and simmer them in as much cold water as will cover them until tender. Drain the water from them, mince them finely, and put them into a saucepan -with a pint of niilk mixed smoothly with two ounces of flour and two ounces of fresh butter, a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Stir the-sauce over the fire for ten or fifteen minutes, and serve it as hot as possible. Time, aliout an hour and a half. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for six persons. Onion Sauce, White, Common.— Boil the onions until tender. ]\lix with tliom haK a pint of melted butter; add quarter of aONI ( 469 ) ONI pint of new milk, and a little salt and pepper. Stir the sauce over the fire \intil it toils, and servo as hot as possible. Time, three-quarters of an hoiu-. Probable cost, 4d. Sufficient for live or six persons. Onion Sauce, Young—Peel half a pint of medium-sized button-onions, and throw them into cold water for half an hour. Boil them until they are 'tender without being broken, then stir them into half a pint of melted butter; add a httle salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, and two table-spoonfuls of thick cream. Serve very hot. Time, about half an hour to boil the onions. I'robable cost, 8d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Onion Soubise Sauce.—Soubise sauce is nothing but superlative onion sauce. It is made as follows :—Peel and slice four Spanish onions ; throw them into boiling water for ten minutes, and then into cold water. Put them into a stewpan with two ounces of fresh butter, and a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, and let them stew very gently until they are tender without being at all browned. _ Mix three ounces of flour smoothly with a pint of milk, or, if preferred, half a pint of chicken broth, and half a pint of milk or cream may be used. Add this to the onions, and simmer very gently for a quarter of an hour. Press the Kiuce through a fine hair-sieve, and when wanted for use make it quite hot, without letting it boil again. Probable cost, lOd., if made with milk. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Onion Soup.—Peel haK a dozen Spanish onions, and mince them very finely. Fry them in a Httle fresh butter imtil they are tender without being browned. Pour over them about tlaree pints of nicely-seasoned stock, add a little cayenne, salt, and pepper, and simmer gently for twenty minutes. Press the soup through a hair-sieve, and return it to the saucepan. Grate the crumb of a stale loaf into half a pint of boiling milk or cream, stir this into the soup, and serve very hot. Time, eight or ten minutes to fry the onions. Pro- bable cost, onions, Hd. each. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Onion Soup (another way). — Peel and slice a dozen moderate-sized onions, and put them into a stewpan, with three pints of boiling stock (the liquid in which a leg of mutton has been boiled will answer very well for the purpose), two ounces of lean ham finely minced, a large carrot, a large turnip, a small parsnip, a few of the outside sticks of a head of celery, a bunch of sweet herbs, quarter of an ounce of white pepper, and a little salt. Simmer gently for one hour and a half, then press the soup with the vegetables through a hair-sieve, and when cold mix in the yolks of three weU- beaten eggs, and half a pint of new milk. The soup may bo stirred over the fire until quite hot, but it must not boU after the eggs and milk are added. If liked, this soup may be thickened with a table-spoonful of ground rice. Sufficient for five or six persons. Probable cost. Is., exchisive of the stock. Onion Soup, Brown.—Take about two dozen small silver onions—such as would be used for pickling—peel them carefully, sprinkle a little sugar on them, and fry them till nicely browned in a little hot butter. Pom- over them two pints of clear brown gravy soup nicely seasoned and strongly flavoured with onions. Let all boil up together, and serve very hot. If prefen-ed, this soup may be thickened by stirring into it a table-spoonful of ground rice or flour mixed smoothly with a small quantity of cold water. Time, about ten minutes to brown the onions. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Onion Soup, Maigre. — Mince haK a dozen medium-sized onions very finely. Put them into a stewpan over a gentle fire with three ounces of dissolved butter, dredge a little flour over them, and move them about until they are tender and lightly browned. Add two pints of boiling water, and a seasoning of salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Beat two eggs briskly for a minute or two, boil the soup, let it cool half a minute, then stir it in amongst the eggs, and serve immediately. Time, half an hour. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Onion Stuflng for Chicken.—Beat the yolk of an egg thoroughly, and mix with it a table-spoonful of hot vinegar, half a salt- spoonful of powdered thyme, and as much finely-minced parsley as will make it quite thick. Boil a large Spanish onion in three or four waters until it is tender, press it well, mince it finely, and mix it with the vinegar, &c. Add two ounces of boiled pickled pork cut up into small pieces, and a little pepper and salt. A chicken which has been filled with this stuffing should be braised and served with white sauce. Time, one hour to boil the onion. Probable cost, 4d. Sufficient for one chicken. Onions (a la Creme).—Peel four medium- sized Sj)anish onions, and boil them in water slightly salted until they are sufficiently cooked. Drain them on a sieve, and put them into a stewpan with three ounces of butter rubbed smoothly with a table-spoonful of flour, and a little salt and white pepper.' Shake the pan constantly, and stir in by degrees half a pint of cream or new milk. Serve the onions on toasted bread, with the sauce poured over. Sufficient for four or five persons. One hour to boil the onions, quarter of an hour to stew- them. Cost, with cream. Is. 7d.; with milk, 1 Id.. Onions and Eggs {see Eggs and Onions).. Onions Baked (to be served with Eoast Mutton, &c.).—Peel three or four medium-sized Spanish onions, and boil them in salted water for a quarter of an hour, then throw them, into cold water for half an hour. Drain them well, cut them into slices half an inch in thickness, place them in a single layer in a weU-buttered tin, and bake them in a quick oven, basting them occasionally with butter,, until they are tender and lightly browned. Serve on a hot dish. Probable cost, 6d. Suf- ficient for six or seven persons.( 470 ) ONI ONI Onions, Bologna Sausage with (m- Bbloj^nii Siuisago with Onioiui). Onions, Brown, for Garnishing Stews.—Cut tho two (inds from hoiuo Hiuall silver onions, and throw tliom into boilinfj water for five miniitos. Drain thorn on an inverted «iovo, and when cool take off tho outer skins, and put them into a woll-buttorod aaute-pan, with a little butter and sugar, and fry them (tui-ning them over once) until thoy are lightly browned all over. Drain them well, and, ton minutes before they are used, put them into tho stow which they are intended to garnish. Time, about ton minutes to bro^vn the onions. Pro- bable cost, 3d. per pound. Sufficient, one pound for a dish largo enough for five or six persons. Onions, Bullock's Heart with {sec Bullock's Heart, &c.). Onions, Burnt, for Soups and Gravies.—-Bm-nt onions for colouring and flavouring soups and gravies may be bought at most Italian warehouses for about 8d. per pound. A liquid answering very much the same purpose, though slightly acid, may be prepared at home and stored for use. It should be made as follows :—Mince a pound of onions very finely, and put them into an enamelled saucepan with a pint of boUing water, place them upon the fire, and let them remain for four or five minutes. Add a pound of sugar, and simmer until the sjTup is nearly black. Strain it into a pint of boiling \'inegar, stir briskly for a minute or two, and when cold bottle for use. Time, one hour. Probable cost, 6d. per pint. Onions, Coloured, for Soup Fla- vouring.—Put half a dozen large onions into an oven on a tin dish, with equal quantities of butter and sugar (previously well mixed together) on the top of each. As the mixture dissolves, baste the onions frequently with it; they must not get dry, but they should be black through, yet not burnt. A slow oven is re- quired. For imparting a fiavour and colour to soups black onions are very valuable. Pro- bable cost, IJd. per pound. Onions, Cow-heel Fried with {see Cow-heel Fried, &c.). Onions, Cucumbers Stewed with {see Cucumbers, &c.). Onions for Seasoning Sauces and Made Dishes.—Mince three or four onions very finely. Put them into a saucepan, cover them with cold water, and let them boil until quite tender. Press them with their liquid through a hair sieve, when they are ready for use. Time, half an hour. Probable cost, 2d. Onions, Fowl with {see Fowl with Onions). Onions, Glazed, for Garnishing Beef, &c.—Take a dozen freshly-gathered large-sized onions, cut a thin slice off each end, and throw them into boiling water for a quarter of an hour. Take off the outer skin, scoop a small piece out of the middle of each onion, and put a quarter of a tea-spoonful of powdered sugar into the empty spaces thus formed. Put two or throe slices of butter in a Btovqian. Ai-rango tho onions side by side in it, and jjlawj it on the fire, tuniing tho onions two or three- times that they may bo ofjually coloured all oyer. When nicely browned, moisten them with half a pint of good strong stock, cover the saucepan closely, and simmer very g<mtly until the sauce is reduced to glaze, liaste the onions frequently wliilst the sauce is simmering, and keep them warm until wanted for u»o. Time, one hour. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient to garnish a moderate-sized piece of beef. Onions. How and Where to Keep. —Onions should bo fastened upon ropes, and hung from the ceiling of a cool, airy apart- ment. Thoy should not be hung in the store- room, on account of then- unpleasant odour. Onions, Pickled.—Onions, like all other pickles, are considered more wholesome, though less handsome, when prepared at home, than when bought at the warehouses. Home-made pickled onions are besides quite as expensive. The small silver onions are generally used for pickling, and should be obtained as soon aa possible after they are harvested, as they are then in the best condition. This will be about the middle of August. Peel the oniona until they look clear, being careful not to cut the bulb. If a little warm water be poured over them the task will not be quite so dis- agreeable. Throw them as they are peeled into a bowl of white-wine vinegar, and when they are all finished strain the vinegar into an enamelled stewpan, with an ounce of whole peppercorns, a dessert-spoonful of salt, and an inch of whole ginger to each quart. Boil gently for five minutes, let the hquid cool, and pom- it over the onions. It must be boiled again twice before the onions are fastened up, and should be sufficient to cover them entirely. Put the pickle into jars, cork securely, and cover them with bladder, then store for use. If it is preferred, instead of boiling the vinegar three times, the onions may be thrown into it when boiling, and simmered gently for two minutes. Probable cost, onions. Is. or Is. 6d. per gallon. Onions, Pickled (another way).—Pre- pare the onions as in the last recipe, but instead of throwing them when peeled into vinegar, throw them into brine sufficiently strong to bear an egg. Let them remain in this until the next day, then drain them, and lay them between two cloths to di-y. BoQ as much vinegar as wiU cover them with half a tea- spoonful of coriander seed, an inch of whole ginger, and an ounce of peppercorns to each quart. After the liquid has reached the boiling point, let it simmer gently for three minutes, and pour it out to cool. Put the onions into jars, divider tho spices amongst them, and cover them entirely with the cooled vinegar. Cork securely, and cover the corks with bladder. Store for use. This pickle should not be used until it has been kept a month. Probable cost, onions. Is. to Is. 6d. per gallon. Onions, Pickled (an easy method).—Peel tho onions according to tho directions already given. {See the last recipe but one). Put them aa they aro done into wide-mouthed glass bottlesONI om ( 471 ) or earthen jars, place layers of spice amongst them, allo\ving an ounce of whole pepper, a tea-spoonful of mustard seed, and a quarter of a tea-spoouful of coriander seed to each quart of onions. Cover them with, cold vinegar, and cork securely. As the vinegar is ahsorbed by the onions more should be added, so as to keep them well covered. Store in a cool, dry place. Probable cost of onions, Is. to Is. 6d. per gallon. Onions, Pickled, with Cucumbers. —Put a moderate-sized onion with three cuctmi- bers. Peel and slice them, and take the seeds out of the cucumbers. Put the slices in a colander. Sprinkle salt over them, and leave them twenty-four hours to drain, then place them in a large earthen jar, and pour over them sufficient boUrng vinegar to cover them. Tie a bladder over them, and place the jar near the fire. BoU up the vinegar every day, pour it upon the pickle, and cover the jar instantly, so that none of the steam may escape. Eepeat this until the cucumbers are green; and add an ounce of whole pepper to every quart of vinegar the last time of boiling. Store in a cool, dry place. The vinegar of this pickle is excellent for salads. Time, four or five days. Probable cost of onions, l^d. each; cucumbers, Is. Onions, Plain, Boiled. — Peel half a dozen medium-sized Spanish onions, and boil them gently for five or six minutes in a little salt and water. Drain them on a sieve, and throw them into cold water for an hour. Put them into a saucepan with plenty of cold water, and let them simmer gently imtil they are tender quite through, Avithout being broken. Serve on a. hot dich, with a little melted butter poured over them. Time, medium-sized Spanish onions, an hour and a half to boil. Probable cost, l^d. each. Sufficient for five or six persons. Onions, Sliced and Pried. — Onions, cut into thin slices, fried in a little hot butter untn they are bro'WTied, ^vithout being burnt, then mixed with flour, and afterwards pressed through a fine sieve, are excellent for flavour- ing and colouring bro>vn soups and sauces. Onions, Spanish, and Beet-root, to Pickle.—Take equal quantities of Spanish onions and beet-root. Slice the onions, and lay them in brine for twenty-four hours, then drain them well. Wash the beet-root gently; if the skin or fibres are broken the colour will be spoilt. Boil it for an hoirr, and leave it also until the next day. Peel the roots, and cut them into slices. Place alternate layers of beet-root and onion in wide-mouthed earthen jars, pour over them vinegar which has been boiled with spices and allowed to cool. Cover with bladder, and store for use. Two or three drops of cochineal will improve the colour of this pickle, and will not harm it. Beet-root, time to boil, one hour. ' Onions, Spanish, Baked. —Wash and trim, without peeling, half a dozen Spanish onions of medium size. Put them into a sauce- pan, cover them with water slightly salted, and let them simmer very gently for about an hour. Take them up, di-ain them, wrap each onion in a ■ separate piece of paper, put them into a moderate oven, and let them remain until quite tender. Before dishing them, remove the skins, sprinkle a little popper and salt over them, and pour half a pint of good gravy into the dish with them. Time to bake, about an hour and a half. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Onions, Spanish, Pickled. — Take some moderate-sized and perfectly sound Spanish onions, cut them in slices, and put them for twenty-four hours in a brine sufficiently strong to float an egg. Drain them well, lay them in wide-mouthed earthen jars, and put a slic^ capsicum, four cloves, and an ounce of whole pepper with every three onions. Nearly fill the jar with vinegar, place the lid on it, and set it in a large pan of cold water. Place this upon the fire, and simmer gently until the onions arc soft. Add a little more vinegar, if required; cover the jars closely, and store the pickle in a cool, dry place. Time, an hour and a half to simmer. Probable cost of onions, l^d. each. Onions, Stewed.—Peel and trim half a dozen Spanish onions of medium size, but be careful not to cut the tops too short, or the bulb will fall to pieces whilst stewing. Blanch them in boiling watar for a minute or two, then drain them, and put them side by side in a saucepan sufficiently large to hold them all in one layer. Sprinkle a little salt and pepper over them, and place upon each onion half an ounce of butter, mixed smoothly with half a tea-spoon- ful of powdered sugar. Place them over a gentle fire, and let them remain untO. lightly browned, then cover with good brown gravy, and simmer them until tender. Serve as hot as possible on toast, with the gravy poured round them. If liked, the gravy may be flavoured with tomato-sauce, or with a finely- minced gherkin and a glass of claret. A pleas- ing variety, too, may be secured by taking out the middle of each onion, stuflSng it with nicely-seasoned forcemeat, and then stewing in gravy as before. Time to stew the onions, about an hour and half. Probable cost of onions, l^d. each. Sufficient for five or six persons. Onions, Stuffed.—Take three moderate- sized Spanish onions. Peel and trim them neatly, but be careful not to cut off too much of the tops, for fear the onions fall to pieces. Scoop out the hearts of the onions, mince them finely, and mix with them four oimces of lean beef or pork and one ounce of fat bacon (chopped smaU), a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, thi-ee table- spoonfuls of grated bread-crumbs, two ounces of butter, a little salt and cayenne, and the yolk of an egg well beaten. Stuff the onions with the meat, and put them into a saucepan side by side, and with them half a pint of good gravy, two apples, pared, cored, and chopped small. Stew the onions imtil they are perfectly tender, and turn them over once or twice, so that they may be thoroughly cooked all through. Thicken the sauce with a little flour and butter, add pepper and salt and a table-spoonful of brandy, and servo the onions on a hot dish with the gravy poured round them. If the acid flavour is liked, the strained juice of a large fresh lemon may be poured over theORA ONI onions a fow minutes before lliey are taken off the tire. Time, thrco hours to stow tlio onions. I'robable cost, Is. 3d. Sufficient for thrco persona. Onions, Stuffed (another way).—Prepare three or four largo Spanish onions ns in the last recipe. Scoop out tho centres, making a hole fully an inch and a half across. Put in each one a mutton kidney, and place the onions side by side in a siuiccpan. Sprinkle a little salt and cayenne over them, and pour upon them half a pint of good brown gravy. Place tho pan over a gentle fire, and let it remain until tho onions aro quite tender. Servo as hot as possible. Time to simmer the onions, two and a half or three hours. Probable cost, Is. Gd. Sufficient for three persons. Onions, Stuffed and Baked. — Peel two largo Spanish onions, partly boil them, and leave them on a sieve to drain until nearly cold. Then cut tho onions an inch and a half across the top, and scoop out the centre. Have ready a stuffing made with one ounce of finely-grated Parmesan or Cheshire cheese, the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs minced very finely, one ounce of butter, three ounces of bread-crumbs, one salt-spoonjful of salt, and half that quantity of pepper. Mix all well together with a spoonful or two of milk. Fill up the onions with the forcemeat, brush them over with egg and bread- crumbs, and bake them imtil nicely browned. Serve on a hot dish, with brown gravy poured over them. Time, half an hour to boil the onions; three-quarters of an hour to bake. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for four persons. Onions, White, for Garnishing Stewed Chicken or Veal. — Take a dozen freshly-gathered silver onions of a mode- rate size, cut a thin slice off each end, and blanch them in boiling water for a quarter of an houi". Drain them well, dry them in a cloth, take off the outer skins; put them into a stewpan 'with a salt-spoonful of salt, a salt- spoonful of sugar, and as much water as will cover them. Let them simmer gently until they are tender, without being at all broken. Drain them, and, a few minutes before they are served, put them into the stew which they are intended to garnish. Time, about three-quarters of an hour to simmer. Pro- bable cost of onions, 3d. Sufficient for a dish of veal for three or four persons. Onions, with Beef-steak, &c.—Take two large Spanish onions. Remove a thin piece off each end, peel off the outer skins, and cut them into slices a quarter of an inch thick. Place an ounce of butter or good dripping in a saucepan, let it melt, then put with it a pound of steak, divided into pieces a little thinner than for broiling. Brown these in the butter, add a little pepper and salt, the sliced onions, three ounces more of butter, but no liquid; cover the saucepan closely, and simmer as gently as possible till done. Arrange the steak neatly in the centre of a hot dish, boil up the onion gravy sauce with a table-spoonful of walnut ketchup, pour it over the meat, and serve immediately. Chickens or rabbits are sometimes cooked in the same way. Time, about an hour and a half. I'robable cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for two or thrco persons. Onions, with Grated Cheese (a Ger- man recipe).—Wash and peel tlu-eo or four lui-go sound onions, cut tliem into slices fully half an inch thick, and place them side by side in a single hiyer in a well-buttered baking-dish. Spi'iuklo a littlo pepper and salt over thorn, pLico them in a quick oven, and let them remain until tender ; strew each jtiece of onion thickly with grated cheese, and return tho dish again to tho oven for a few minutes imtil the cheeso has dissolved. Lift the slices carefuDy upon a liot dish, and serve inmiediately. A little mus- tard should bo eaten with them. Time, half an hour to bake. Probable cost, 7d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Orange.—Oranges come into season at the beginning of winter, but they can rarely be obtained sufficiently sweet to be agreeable before Christmas. The St. Michael and Malta oranges are the most commonly used. They appear early, and last aU the season. Tho Tangerine oranges are verj' small, but sweet, and delicious in flavour. The rind has a very peculiar taste. They come into the market later than the others, and are soon over. The Seville orange does not appear until the end of February, and is chiefly used for making mar- malade and wine. There are supposed to,be nearly a hundred varieties of oranges in Itaty. The orange as a dessert fruit is deservedly popular. The varieties most in favour for this purpose are the China, Portugal, and Slaltese. The orange is also employed in confectionery, not only when ripe, but when green and not larger than a pea. It assists in the formation of several liqueurs and conserves, either alone or com- bined with sugars, wiues, or spirits, and either the pulp, or skin, or both, are used for these purposes. In cooking it is employed to aroma- tise a number of dishes. Orange and Almond Ice {see Almond and Orange Ice). Orange and Batter Pudding.—ilix foui- table-spoonfuls of flour smoolUy and gradually with half a pint of cold milk; add two fresh eggs, thoroughly whisked, a pinch of salt, a table-spoonful of moist sugar, and a quarter of an ounce of oiled butter. Pour the batter into a buttered basin which it will quite fill, dredge a little flour over it, tie it in a floured cloth, plunge it into boiling water, and keep it boUing until it is done enough. If more water must be put in, let it be boil- ing. Let the pudding stand two or three minutes after it is taken out of the water before it is turned out of the mould. Place it on a hot dish, and before sending to table empty a half-pound jar of orange marmalade over it. The batter is better if made two or three hours before it is wanted. Time to boil, an lioui- and a half. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for four persons. Orange and Lemon Candied Rings for Garnishing.—When orange ^elly or punch is bcin^ made, and tho orange nnds are not used, it is good economy (if Iroublo is not a consideration) to candy the latter in rings,( 473 ) ORA 03A and store them in a tin box until wanted for garnisliing sweet dishes. Cut the oranges into rounds a quai-tcr of an inch thick, remove the pulp without breaking the ring, and leave a narrow rim of white on the yellow part. Tlirow these rings into salt and water, leave them until the following day, and then boil them in fresh water until they are tender. Lift them carefully out, drain on an inverted sieve, and when cool dip them into brandy. Make a syrup with half a pound of loaf sugar and half a pint of the water in which the rings were boiled to each half a dozen oranges. Boil it imtil clear; dip the rings into it three times, and again drain them. Heat the syrup twice a day, and dip the rings into it whilst it is hot, but not boning, and continue this until they are candied. Store in tin boxes, arranging the rings in single layers between sheets of writing- paper. They will keep any length of time in a cool dry place. The sugar which remains is excellent for flavouring. Time, half an hour to boil them in fresh water; to be dipped in hot sjTup twice a day until they are candied. Orange and Lemon Juice for Colds (Invalid Cookery).—Orange or lemon-juice, strained and boiled with an equal weight of loaf sugar, and then bottled and corked closely, will prove an agreeable and valuable addition to gruel and other warm drinks which are required for invalids. Time, fifteen minutes to boil. Sufficient, a dessert-spoonful of lemon-juice to half a pint of gruel. Orange-Apple Jelly. — In preparing apple jeUy a pleasing variety may be made as follows :—Boil the apple-juice and the sugar in the usual way for about ten minutes, and then throw in with them some slices of orange a quarter of an inch thick. The peel may be left on, but the pips should be carefully re- moved. Let all cook together, and when the apple jelly is potted, put two nr three slices of orange into each jar. Time, about three- quarters of an hour to boil the jelly. Sufficient, one sliced orange for a pint of apple jelly. Orange Biscuits.—Beat four ounces of fresh butter to a cream. Rub the rinds of two Seville oranges with a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, imtil the yellow part is all taken off. Crush the sugar to powder, and mix it with the butter; add a small pinch of salt, four ounces of dried flour, the weU-beaten yolks of four eggs, two ounces of candied orange-peel, cut into thin shreds, and lastly the whites of the eggs beaten to a firm froth. Pour the mixture into small buttered moulds, sift pow- dered sugar over the biscuits, and bake in a slow oven for about ten minutes. Probable cost. Is. 3d. Orange Biscuits (another way)—To be used as a Stomachic.—Boil the rinds of SeviUo oranges in two or three waters, until they are quite tender and most of the bitterness is gone. Drain well, weigh them, mince finely, and pound them in a mortar with an equal weight of powdered sugar; spread the pavSte out thinly on a dish, and place it in the Bun, or in some warm place, to dry. When the upper part is stiff, stamp the mixture out into small shapes, turn these carefully over, and dry the under side. These biscuits should be stored between layers of paper in a tin box. Time, two hours to boil the rinds. Probable cost, oranges, Id. each. Orange Brandy.—Take the thin rinds of six Seville oranges. ■ Put into a stone jar, and pour over them half a pint of the strained juice of the oranges and two quarts of French, brandy. Let them remain for three days, thea add a pound and a quarter of loaf sugar-— broken, not powdered—and stir the liquid until the sugar is dissolved; let it stand imtil the next (ky, strain through filtering paper until quite clear, pour it into bottles, and cork securely ; the longer orange brandy is kept the better it is. This liquem- should be made in March. Probable cost, Is., exclusive of the brandy. Sufficient for five pints of oranga brandy. Orange Brandy (another way).—Put half a dozen whole Seville oranges into a jar, pour over them four pints of French brandy, and let them infuse for twenty-eight days. Filter the liquid until it is quite clear, then put with it ten ounces of loaf sugar in lumps, and stir two or three times a day until the sugar ia dissolved; strain again, put the liquid into bottles, and cork securely. This liqueur wUl improve with keeping. Probable cost, lOd., ex- clusive of the brandy. Sufficient for two quarta of orange brandy. Orange Butter.—Blanch one ounce of sweet almonds, and pound them in a mortar to a smooth paste. IVIix with them the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs, one ounce of pounded and sifted sugar, two ounces of fresh butter, and a spoonful or two of orange-flower water. Rub the butter through a colander, and serve it with sweet or plain biscuits. Time, ten minutes to boU the eggs. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for half a pound of biscuits. Orange Cake.—Blanch two ounces of sweet almonds, and pound them ia a mortar with a little white of egg; nux with them two ounces of powdered sugar, two well-beaten eggs, and the yolks of two hard-boiled ones wMch have been made smooth with the back of a wooden spoon. Slice four ounces of fresh butter into six ounces of flour, add the almond mixture and two or three spoonfuls of milk, enough to make a firm paste. Roll this out in a round form, about a quarter of an inch thick, and ornament the edge with a thick twist, made of the trimmings of the pastry. Bake on buttered paper in a moderate oven imtil the cake is lightly browned, and when nearly cool spread upon it a mixture made as follows:— Beat thoroughly the yolks of ioui eggs and the white of one. Rub two ounces of loaf sugar upon the yellow rind of two oranges; crush the sugar to powder, and mix it with the eggs. ^ Add the strained juice of the oranges, and stir the mixture over the fire until it begins to thicken. "When it is nearly cool, add two tea-spoonfuls of powdered sugar and the well- whisked whites of two eggs. Before serving, an orange peeled and quartered may be laid upon the cake in the form of a star. This cakeOBA ORA ( 474 ) is very good when made of ordinary pastry. Time, about half an liour to bako tho cako. l^obablo cost, Is. Od. Sulliciunt for tivo or six persons. Orange Cakes. — Pool Bomo Seville oranges. Weigh the rinds, and boil them in two or throe waters until they can bo easily pierced with a fork. Drain tho water from tliom, and pound them in a mortar with doublo their weight in powdered sugar, and tho pulp and j nice of tho oranges, which must have boon carefully freed from skin and seeds. Boat the mi.xturo thoroughly; if it is too thick, let it istand a few hours, drop it upon buttered tins in small rounds, and dry these in u cool oven. Orange cakes should be kept in layers between sheets of writing-paper, and stored in a cool dry place. Time, two hours to boil the orange rinds. Probable cost, Seville oranges, Id. or lid. each. Orange Calf's Feet Jelly.—Take one pint of calf's feet stock, carefully freed from fat and sediment, mix with it half a pint of strained orange-juice, the juice of two lemons, the whites and crushed shells of three eggs, the thin rinds of two oranges and one lemon, a dessert-spoonful of isinglass, and four ounces of sugar in lumps ; stir these gently over the fire until they are well mixed, but as soon as the liquid begins to heat, leave off stirring, and let the scum rise undisturbed; let the jelly simmer fifteen minutes after it has reached the boiling point, then draw it to the side of the fire and let it stand to settle fifteen minutes longer; lift the bead of scum off carefuUy, and pour the jelly through a tamis until it is quite clear. Take a damp mould, pour in a little of the jelly to the depth of half an inch, and let it stand in a cool place imtil it is stiff; arrange the quarters of an orange on this in the form of a star, first freeing them entirely from the thick •white skin; pour the rest of the jelly on them, and set the mould in a cool place. Turn it out carefuUy before serving. Probable cost 2s. 6d. Sufficient for a quart mould. Orange Cardinal.—Peel a large sound St. Michael's orange very thinly, remove the thick white skin, and cut the fruit into thin slices; remove the pips, place the slices in a bowl, and strew over them a quarter of a pound of pounded and sifted sugar. Put the rind of the orange into a pint of good light wine, and let it infuse for six or eight hours. Strain it over the sweetened fruit, and, just before serving, add one bottle of champagne. A Seville orange may be used if the flavour is preferred, but it will require more sugar and a larger proportion of wine than a sweet one. Probable cost, according to the quality of the wine. Orange Cheesecakes.—Blanch a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds, and pound them in a mortar with a dessert-spoonful of orange-flower water. Add four ounces of finely- sifted sugar, half a pound of fresh butter, the rind, pulp, and juice of a small Se\'illo orange ■which has been "boiled in two or three waters until tender, then freed from the pips and skin, one candied orange povmded to a paste, tho yolks of five and the wliites of two eggs. Beat tho mixture thorougldy, put it into patty- pans hned with good putt-paste, and bake in a (luick oven. Time to bake tho cheesecakes, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost. Is. lOd. for tills quantity. Sufficient for two dozen clieose- cakcs. Orange Cheesecakes (another way).— Jiub th(3 rind of a Seville orange with two or three lumps of sugar until all the yellow part is talfon oft'. Crush tho sugar to powder, and put it into a saucepan with three table-spoonfuljj of new milk and a quarter of a pound of fresh butter.' Stir all over the fire until the butter is dissolved, then pour the liquid over four ounces of sponge biscuits. Beat them well with a fork, and add thi-ee ounces of sugar, half a salt-spoon- ful of nutmeg grated, a table-spoonful of brandy, and three eggs well-beaten. Mix thoroughly. Lino some i)atty-pan8 \vith good puff-paste, half fill them with the mixture, and bake in a quick oven for a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, Is. 4d. Sufficient for half a dozen cheesecakes. Orange Cheesecakes {see Cheesecakes). Orange Chips.—Take the rinds of some large oranges. Cut into quarters, and weigh them. Boil them in water imtil they are so tender that they can be easily pierced with a fork, drain them well, and spread them in the sun or before the fire to drj'. Take one pound and a half of sugar to two pounds of orange rind. Clarify the sugar, pour it upon the rind, and leave it for twenty-four hours. Strain oil the sjTup, boil it until it is thick, and pour it boiling over the orange rind. Leave it for two days, then boil it again, and repeat this until the sugar is aU used. Put the chips on a sieve in the sun, and leave them until they are dry. Time, a week or more. Probable cost, oranges. Id. each. Orange Cream.—Dissolve an ounce of isinglass in a pint of water. Add the strained juice of six sweet oranges and one lemon, and four ounces of loaf sugar, which have been well rubbed upon the rinds of the fruit. Stir all gently over the fire until the sugar is dissolved, turn it out, and when nearly cold add half a pint of thick cream. Pour the mixture into a damp mould, and place it in a cool airj' situa- tion until it is stiff and firm. Serve the cream in a glass dish. Time, ten minutes to boil the juice and sugar with the isinglass. Probable cost, 2s. lOd. Sufficient for a quart mould. Orange Cream (another way). (See Cream, Orange. Orange Cream Sauce (for Puddings and Sweet Dishes).—Soak tho thin rind of half a small Seville orange in four table-spoonfuls of water for half an hour. Strain the hquid, add two ounces of loaf sugar and the juice of a St. Michael's orange, and boU quickly-for two minutes. ^Vhcn nearly cold, mix it with half a pint of thick cream and a table-spoonful of rum, and serve. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Suffi- cient for six or eight persons. Orange Custard.-Strain the juice of fo\n- oranges over four ounces of loaf sugar, put them into an enamelled saucepan, and stir themOBA OBA ( 475 ) over a gentle firo until the sugar is dissolved. When the tiquid is almost cold, add thi-oo- quarters of a pint of thick cream and the well- beaten yolks of four eggs. Put the custard in a jar. place this in a saucepan of boiUng water, and stir it until it thickens; serve either in a glass dish, or in custard cups, and strew a little orange rind cut into very thin strips over the top. Time, about a quarter of an hour to boil the custard. Sufficient for four or five persons. Orange Custard (another way).—Boil the thin rind of a Seville orange until it is quite soft. Drain the water from it, and pound it in a mortar with four ounces of sifted sugar. Stir the mixtm-e into a pint of boiling cream, and add the yolks of four eggs well-beaten. Put the custard into a jug, set this in a pan of boiling water, and stir it over the fire until it begins to thicken. Pour it out, and stir it again until it is nearly cold; add a table-spoonful of brandy and the strained juice of the orange, and serve either in a glass dish or in cups. A little orange-peel, cut into very fine shreds, may be put on the top of the custard. If cream cannot be obtained, milk may be used; then the yolks of six eggs will be required. Time, a quarter of an hour to thicken the custard. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for a pint and a half of custard. Orange Chistard Fritters. — Mix a quarter of a pound of flour very smoothly with tliree eggs and a pint of milk. Stir the batter over the firo for ten or fifteen minutes until it is quite smooth, then add a pinch of salt, two ounces of loaf sugar, which have been well rubbed upon the rinds of two large oranges, and the well-beaten yolks of three eggs. Spread the mixture out to cool, cut it into small oval pieces about a inch and a half long, and fry these lightly in hot fat. Drain them on blotting-paper, and serve them piled high on a napkin, with sifted sugar strewn thickly over them. Time, about eight minutes to fry the fritters. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for three or four persons. Orange-Flowers.—The flowers of the orange-tree should be dried in the months of May, June, and July. They are used for making candy and orange-flower tea, which is considered by many persons an excellent tonic. The flowers of the Seville orange are infused in making orange-flower water for flavouring. Orange-Flowers' Candy. —Put one pound of doubly-refined loaf sugar into a saucepan with half a pint of water, and boU gently for ten minutes. Throw in two ounces of freshly-gathered orange-flowers, and leave them in the boiling syrup for five minutes, then turn them into a bowl, and let them remain for two days. Boil the syrup once more until it rises high in the pan ; strain it upon sheets of paper which have been placed upon large flat dishes, and loosen it from the paper before it is quite cold. Store the candy in canisters until wanted for use; it will keep good some months. Probable cost, uncertain, orange-flowers being seldom offered for sale. Orange-Flowers, Tea of.—Take half an oxmce of orange-flowers. Put them into a jug, pour over them half a pint of boiling water, and leave them to infuse for a few minutes: strain the tea, and sweeten it either with sugar or honey. Probable cost, uncertain, orange- flowers being seldom offered for sale. Sufficient for half a pint. Orange Fool.—Strain the juice of three Seville oranges into a basin with three well- beaten eggs. Mix them thoroughly, grate half a small nutmeg over them, and add a pint of thick cream, flavoured and sweetened with sugar, which has been rubbed upon lemon-rind. Put the mixtui'e into a jug, place it in a pan of boiling water, and stir it over the fire until it begins to thicken. Serve it in a glass dish, with a little sifted sugar strewn over it. Time, a quarter of an hour to tliicken the mixture. Probable cost, 2s. 4d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Orange Fritters.—Mix two table-spoon- fuls of flour smoothly with one well-beaten egg, a quarter of an ounce of butter, and a quarter of a pint of cream, and add a pinch of salt and a dessert-spoonful of brandy. Peel four or five large sweet oranges; take away the white pith, and di\'ide them into sections without breaking the thin skin that divides them. Dip the pieces first into sherry, then into sifted sugar, and afterwards into the batter. Fry them in hot fat until they are lightly browned. Drain them on blotting-paper to free them entirely fi-om fat, and servo piled high on a hot napkin, with sifted sugar strewn, over them. Time, eight or ten minutes to fry the oranges. Probable cost. Is., exclusive of the wine and brandy. Sufficient for four or five persons. Orange Fritters (another way).—To make the batter, see Batter for Frying. Divide some oranges into quarters; do it carefully so that none of the juice shall escape; the thick white or outer skin must be removed, but the thin skin that holds in the juices should be kept sound. Dip the pieces of orange in sherry, then into fine sugar, and lastly into the batter. Fry, and send to table in pjTamid fashion, with powdered sugar over them, and a napkin on the dish. Fritters may be made \sith a variety of fruit—pears, straw- berries, &c. Probable cost, lOd. Time to fry, five minutes. Sufficient for a small dish. Orange Gin.—Take the thin rind of three Seville oranges and one lemon, and put it into a jar with a pint and a half of gin, three-quarters of a pound of barley sugar crushed to powder, and the strained juice of the fruit; cover the jar closely, and leave it for two or three weeks, being careful to shake it well every now and then. Strain the liqueur into bottles, cork these securely, and store for use. Orange gin im- proves with keeping. Probable cost, exclu- sive of the gin. Is., Sufficient for one quart o; orange gin. Orange Gingerbread. — Put tliree- quarters of a pound of fresh butter into a jar with a pound and three-quarters of best treacle, and place it near the fire until the butter is dis- solved. Beat the ingredients well together, lot them cool a little, then stir them into two poiindftORA ORA ( 476 ) and a quarter of fino flour. Add throo-quartcrs of a pound of nioiist suj^iir, one oiinco of grount, ginger, ono ounce of allupice, and half a pount of candied orange-pool cut into tliin Bhreds. AVTion the iugi-edients are thoroughly mixed, put them aside for some hours. lioU the mi.\turo out to the thickness of half an inch. Divide it into lingers, squares, or any forms which may bo preferred; brush these over with a littlo milk mixed with yolk of egg, and bake them on buttered tins in a cool oven. The cakes should be placed on the tins an inch apart from ono another. Time to bako, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, Ss. Orange Gingerbread (another way).— See Gingerbread, Orange. Orange Gravy {sec Gravy, Orange). Orange Gravy for Teal, Widgeons, Snipes, Woodcock, &c—Put half a pint of veal gravy into a saucepan with an onion cut_ into small pieces, half a dozen leaves of basil, the rind of half a small Seville orange, and, if the flavour is liked, a little lemon-rind also. Simmer the gravy gently for ten or fifteen minutes. Strain it, and add to it the juice of the orange, half a tea-spoonf\il of salt, half a tea-spoonful of pepper, a pinch of cayenne, and a glassful of claret. Bring the sauce to the point of boiling, and serve very hot in a tureen. Probable cost, 8d., exclusive of the claret. Sufficient for five or six persons. Orange, Iced.—Take off the rind, and carefully remove as much of the white as pos- sible without drawing the juice; if bruised, oranges are useless for this purpose. Whisk the whites of two eggs to a froth, and then beat into it a pound of sugar, which should be of the best quality, and pounded; continue to beat for a quarter of an hour, when the oranges must be dipped singly into the egg and sugar mixture; this is best effected by running a strong thread through each, by which they can be attached to a rod suspended across the oven. In a cool oven they should dry without acquiring colour, and will resemble balls of ice. Time, about half an hour to dry. Sufiicient, half a pound of sugar to twelve oranges. Orange, Iced (another way).—"WTiisk the white of an egg to a firm froth, and mix with it eight ounces of pounded and sifted sugar; beat the mixture thoroughly for ten or fifteen minutes. Peel three or four large sound oranges; take away the white pith without breaking the skin of the fruit, put a double thread through each orange, and pass it through the sugar. Fasten the oranges by the thread to a piece of long stick, hang them in a very cool oven, and leave them until they are quite dry, but they must not be allowed to acquire any colour. Arrange the balls on a folded napkin, and garnish with sprigs of myrtle. Time, about ono hour to dry. Pro- bable cost V. f oranges, Id. each. Sufficient for three or four persons. Orange, Isinglass Jelly.—Take half a dozen ripe oranges, one lemon, and one small Seville orange. Pare off the rinds of half of them very thinly, pour over them a quarter of a pint of bodmg water, and let them infuse lorluilt an hour. Squeeze out the juice, and strain it carefully. Dissolve one ounce of isinglass, or gektine, in throe-quarters of a pint of water, mix witli it the strained liquid in which the rinds have been soaked, and a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, and stir over the fire, skimming carefully until it is on the point of boiling; then add the strained juice, stir and skim the liquid again, draw the saucepan to the side of the fire for two or three minutes, and pass the jelly tlirough a tamis until it is clear and bright. A table-spoonful of whisky may be added, and will be considered an improve- ment by many persons; a blade of saft'ron will deepen the colour. Pour the jelly into a damp mould, and put it in a cool place until it is set. If it is not clear, clarify it according to directions given under Calf's-Foot Jelly. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for a pint and a half mould. Orange Isinglass Jelly (to mould with oranges).—Prepare the orange jelly according to the directions given in the last recipe. ^Vhen it is quite clear pour a small quantity into a damp mould, and put it aside until it is set. Divide a ripe China orange into quarters, and whilst freeing it entirely from the white skin be careful not to break the thin skin which covers the sections. BoU the pieces of orange in a little thin sjTup for two or three minutes, then draui them well, and arrange them upon the layer of stiffened jelly in the mould. Pour the rest of the jelly over, and set it aside until it is sufficiently firm to turn out. If preferred, the mould may be filled with layers of orange and jelly, but of course one layer must stiffen before another is put on, and thus a much longer time will be required. Time, eight or ten hours to set the jeUy. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for a quart mould. Orange Jelly.—Take four pounds of apple juice, made according to the directions given for Apple Jelly {see Apple Jelly). Put with this the strained juice of half a dozen oranges, and let it run through a jeUy bag ■;o make it clear. Put into the jelly bag the :;hin yellow rind of three oranges. Boil two Dounds and a half of loaf sugar with a quart of water. Skim it well, and clear away the thick white scum that settles on the sides of the pan with a sponge. When it is a thick syrup put the juice with it, and boil until a ittle jelly put upon a plate will set. Put into pots for use. Orange Jelly (another way).—Put the strained juice of four Seville oranges, and the thin lind of one, into an enamelled saucepan with a pint of water and eight oranges—freed entirely from the rind and white pith, and cut into slices a quarter of an inch in thickness— and the pips of all the oranges. Simrner very gently for half an hour, then strain the liquid until it is quite clear. Weigh this, boil it for five minutes, put with it its weight in good :.oaf sugar, and boil again until it jeUies. Put it into jars, cover it in the usual way, and store in a cool dry place. Time, altogether, about one hour. Probable cost of Seville oranges, Is. per dozen.{ 477 ) OKA OBA Orange Juice, Imitation.—Take one ounce of citric acid and ono di-uchm of car- bonate of potassia, and dissolve them in a quart of water. Digest the solution on the peel of half an orange until it is sufficiently flavoured. Add white sugar or Narbonne honey till the proper degree of sweetness is ai-rived at. Or, in place of the orange-peel, take five or six drops of oil of orange-peel with half a fluid ounce of tinctui-e of orange-peel. Orange Liqueur.—Stick half a dozen cloves into a fine Seville orange, put it into an earthen jar with one pint and a half of rectified spirits, or best gin, and leave it for a month. Boil one pound and a quarter of loaf sugar quickly with half a pint of water, pom- it into the syrup, and leave it for another month. Filter the liqueur through blotting- paper, pour it into bottles, cork securely, and store for use. Probable cost, exclusive of the spirit, 7d. Sufficient for nearly three pints of liqueur. Orange Liqueur (another way).—Take the thin rind of two Seville oranges, and put it into an earthen jar with a pinch of saffron and a pint and a half of best gin. Leave it in a warm place for a week, then add half a pound of sugar, boiled to a sjTup, with a quarter of a pint of water, and let it remain four weeks longer. Filter the liqueur through blotting- paper, and bottle for use. Probable cost, ex- clusive of the spii'it, 6d. Sufficient for a quart of liqueur. Orange Marmalade.—Orange marma- lade should be made at the end of March or the beginning of April, as the Seville oranges are then in perfection, and it should be remembered that large oranges with clear skins are the best for the purpose. The proportion of sweet and bitter oranges must be regulated by individual taste. As a general rule, however, nine St. Michael's oranges and two lemons may be put with every dozen of Seville oranges. Orange Marmalade (an easy method). —Take equal weights of oranges and loaf sugar. Put the oranges whole into a preserving-pan, cover them with cold water, and bring them to the point of boiling. Pour off the liquid, put fresh water with the fruit, and boil gently until the rinds of the oranges can be easily pierced with the head of a pin. Drain the oranges, and cut them—skin, pulp, and every- thing—into very tbin slices ; remove the pips, and throw the fruit into a preserving-pan with half a pint of the water in which the oranges were last boiled to every pound of fruit, and half the sugar which is to be used. Simmer gently for thirty minutes, then add the re- mainder of the sugar, and laoil twenty minutes longer, or until the marmalade jellies. Pour it into jars, and when cold cover and store for use. Probable cost of Seville oranges, 6s. or 6s. per hundred. Orange Marmalade (another way).— Weigh the oranges before boiling them, and allow two pounds of loaf sugar to every ])ound of fruit. Boil in plenty of water until thoy arc so soft that the skins can be easily pierced, then drain, and skin them. Carefully remove the pulp with the back of a tea-spoon, and throw the pips and skins into cold water. Cut the rinds into thin strips. Eub a preserving- pan quickly round with a cut lemon, and boil the sugar to a S5rrup with a quarter of a pint of the strained water in which the pips were, soaked to each pound. Throw in the fruit, let it boil, then draw it to the side of the fire, and simmer gently imtil the marmalade jellies. Put it into jars, cover closely, and store for use, Time, half an hour to simmer the marmalade. Probable cost of Seville oranges, 5s. or 6s. per himdred. Orange Marmalade (another way),.— See Marmalade, Orange. Orange Marmalade (Invalid Cookery). —Take the same proportion of bitter and sweet oranges that was recommended in the first "Orange Marmalade" article, and an equal weight of loaf sugar. Boil the rinds in two waters until they are quite soft, and preserve the liquid in which they were last boiled. Scrape the pulp out carefully, throw the inner skins of the oranges and the pips into a basin of cold water, and let them infuse for an hour or two. Pound the skins in a mortar; mix with them very gradually the pulp and juice, half the quantity of sugar which is to be used, and a quarter of a pint of liquid to each pound of pulp and juice. This liquid should consist of the strained water in which the pips were soaked and that in which the oranges were boiled. Simmer gently for twenty minutes, then add the remainder of the sugar, and boil again until the marmalade jellies. Time, about three-quarters of an hour to boil. Probable cost of Seville oranges, 6s. or 6s. per hundred. Orange Marmalade (old-fashioned method).—Take the weight of the oranges in loaf sugar. Divide the skins into quarters, put them into a preserving-pan with plenty of cold water, and let them boU until they can be easily pierced with the head of a pin. Whilst they are boiling, divide the fruit into sections, scrape out carefully aU the pulp, and throw the skins and pips into a little cold water—a pint is sufficient for a dozen oranges. When the skins are tender, drain them well, and pre- serve the water in which they were boiled. If it is wished to have the marmalade very clear, thin, and highly coloured, the pith or inside of the skins should be scraped out. The marma- lade wiU then be more Hke preserve. It will be thicker and more economical if the pith be left in, but this is a matter of taste. Lay the skins in folds, and cut them into thin shreds about an inch long. Allow a pint of water for every dozen oranges, using the strained liquid from the pips and skins and that in which the oranges were boiled, instead of fresh water. Put the pulp and the shreds into this, let them infuse for six hours, then boil them gently until the skins are quite tender; add the proper proportion of pounded sugar, and boil again until the marmalade jellies. Put it into jars, and when cold cover in the usual way. Time' two hours to boil the skins; six hours to infuse the pulp, &c., in the liquid. Probable cost of marmalade, 8d. per pound.ORA ( 478 ) ORA Orange Marmalade (nuick way. of muking).—Take equal woights of orangcH and loaf sugar. Boil tho rindB of tho oraugea until thoy arc (luito soft. While tlusy aru Btowiug, divide tho fruit into quarters, and serapo out tho pulp and juico with tho handle of a fork or spoon. Minco the rinds of tho oranges very finely, mix with them the pulp, juico, and sugar, and put all into a preserving-pan. Jiring the njai-malado to the point of boiling, then leave it on the firo for three minutes oiily. Pour it into jars, cover, and store for use. No water is _ used with this marmalade. Time, throe minutes to boil tho marmalade. Probable cost of Seville oranges, Ss. or 68. per hundred. Orange Marmalade and Bread Pudding.—Butter a plain quai-t mould rather thickly. Spread a little orange miirmalado over the bottom, lay on it a thin slice of bread and butter, and repeat untU the mould is three parts full. Pour in a custard made Avith a pint of milk and three well-beatcn eggs. Let the bread soak in this for an hour, then cover the pudding closely, and steam it over hot water untU it is firm. Let the pudding stand for a minute before turning it out, and serve with sweet sauce. Time, half an hoirr to steam the pudding. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Orange Marmalade Pudding.—Shred six ounces of beef suet very finely. Mix with it half a pound of finely-grated bread-crumbs, half a pound of orange marmalade, two table- spoonfuls of moist sugar, an ounce of candied peel chopped small, a pinch of salt, three weU- beaten eggs, and a quarter of a pint of new milk. Put the mixture into a floured cloth, plunge it into boiling water, and let it keep boiling unto, it is done enough. Turn out care- fully, and serve with wine sauce. If preferred, this pudding may be boiled in a mould, but care must be taken that the mould is qixite filled with the mixture ; or it may be steamed. Time to boil or steam the pudding, four hours. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Orange Marmalade Pudding (another way).—Mix six ounces of grated broad-crumbs with three ounces of finely-shred beef suet. Add a pinch of salt, a quarter of a tea-spoonful of powdered ginger, half a tea-spoonful of baking-powder, half an ounce of candied lemon- peel chopped small, two table-spoonfuls of moist sugar, three well-beaten eggs, and a quarter of a pint of new milk. Take a well-buttered mould, spread a layer of the mixture at the bottom, then put a layer of orange marma- lade, and repeat until the mould is fuU, being careful to let the mixture be at the top of the pudding. Bake in a moderate oven, and turn out before ser\'ing. Time, two hours to bake the pudding. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Suffi- cient for half a dozen persons. Orange Marmalade Pudding, Baked.—Mix a large table-spoonful of orange marmalade with two table-spoonfuls of pow- dered loaf sugar, two ounces of clarified butter, and a dessert-spoonful of fine flour. Beat the mixture wcU until it is quite free from lumps, then add two woU-whiskod oggs; line a pie- disli with good pulf-padto, poui- iu the uUxture, and bake in a brisk oven. If prefened, the Hour nuiy bo oiuitted. Time to bake, twenty minutes. Probable cost, Gd. Sufficient for two or tliree pcn;onH. Orange Marmalade with Honey.— Hub the oranges witli a soft cloth, ycvl them, throw the rinds into cold water, and boil until they are quite tender; then drain, and cut them into veiy thin strips about an inch long. Se]jarate the pulp and juice from the inner skin and tho pips, and put them into a preserving-pan with half a pound of the cut rinds and one pound of honey to every pint of pulp. Boil the marmalade gently, Btiiring it frequently, and when the proper wjnsistency is attained pom- it into jars; cover these closely, and store in a cool dry place. Time, about three-quarters of an hour to boil tho manna- lade. Probable cost of oranges, 6s. or Gs. per hundred; honey, lOd.-per pound. Orange or Lemon Shrub.—Make a syrup by boiling a quart of strained orange or lemon-juice with four pounds of Dowdered loaf sugar. When quite clear, add a pint of rum to each half pint of syrup. Put the mixture into a perfectly sweet dry cask, and shake it twice a day for a fortnight; leave it for six ■W^eeks, when it may be drained ofE, and bottled. Time, two months to prepare. Orange-peel.—The recent and dried peel of the orange, as well as that of the lemon and citron, is much in demand for flavouring pur- poses. Under the name of chips, lemon and orange-peel preserved in sugar are eaten. Wo meet with chips preserved in sugar, moist, under the name of " candied" peel. Orange-peel, Candied. — Dii-ide the fruit into quai'ters lengthwise, and remove the pulp; or, if preferred, take any pieces of orange rind which are not required, proAndod only that they are large enough. Throw them into salt and water sufficiently strong to beai- an egg, and let them infuse for six days. Drain them well, throw them into cold water for an hour, and afterwards place them in a preser^dng-pan with as much cold water as will cover them, and let them boil until they are so tender that they can be easily pierced with a fork or skewer. Drain them agaiu, and boil them in a thin syrup, made in the proportion of a pint of water to half a pound of loaf sugar, until they look clear, which will be in about half an hour. Boil some sugar, with as much water as it wiU absorb, to a clear sj-rup. There should be enough to cover the orange rinds when they are thrown in. Boil them imtil the sugar candies, then take them out, di-ain them, sift a little powdered sugar over them, and place them in a wann place to dry; then store for use. Time, a week to prepare. Probable cost of oranges, from 8d. to Is. per dozen. Orange-peel for Flavouring.—"^^7^en orange yecl cannot be obtained for flavouring, a substitute mav be prepared aa follows :—ilix one drachm of the essential oil of oi-ango with a quarter of a pint of spirits of I'ut the essence into small bottles, and cork closely.ORA ORA ( 479 ) The flavour is not equal to that of tho fresh fruit. Or, soak tho thin rind of two or tliree fresh oranges in as much brandy or spirits ot vr-ine as will cover them for a week or ten days. Filter tho liquid, hottle, and cork closely until wanted. The flavour of this essence quickly evaporates if it is exposed to the air. The hest way to preserve orange-peel lor flavoui-ing is to rub the rind with lumps o± sugar, and when the yellow part is all taken ofl:, to crush the sugar to powder, and keep it closely covered. Orange-peel, Syrup of, for flavour- illg__Take two ounces of the thin yellow rmd of Seville oranges entirely free from the wliite part. Put it into a jar, and pour over it a pint of boiling water, cover closely, and leave it until the next day. Filter the liqueur through blotting-paper, put it into an enamelled sauce- pan, and with it a pound and a half of loaf sugar. Let it heat very gently over a slow fire until the sugar is dissolved, then bottle, cork closely, and store for use. Probable cost of oranges, Id. each. Sufficient for a quart of S}TUp. Orange Plum Preserve, Green {see Green Orange Plum Preserve). Orange Plums, To Preserve (excel- lent).—Gather the plums before they begin to ripen. Weigh them, and rub them well with a soft cloth. Eun them down the seam, skin deep only, with a darning needle, put them into a deep earthen jar, cover this closely, place it in a laxge saucepan three parts full of water, and keep the contents boiling xmtil the plums have yielded a considerable portion of their juice. Turn them into a preserving-pan, and boil them quickly until the stones can be easily removed. If it is wished, half the kernels may be blanched, and put into the jam a few minutes before it is taken from the fire. When the stones are all taken awaj' and the jam looks smooth, put in the sugar, three poimds for every four pounds of plums, and boil again for haK an hour. Turn the jam into jars, and when cold cover in the usual way, and store for use. Time to boil, half an hour after the sugar is added. Probable cost of plums, 6d. or 8d. per pound. Orange Pudding.—Eub the rind of a large orange upon three or four lumps of sugar until aU the yellow part is taken off. Make the sugar up to four oimces, put it into a bowl, and strain over it the juice of four oranges. Pour half a pint of boiling milk over three oimces of bruised ratafias or sponge-cake which have been finely crumbled. Add a pinch of salt and a quarter of a small nutmeg, grated. Mix thoroughly the contents of the two bowls, and stir in three well-beaten eggs. Line the edges of a pie-dish with good puff-paste, pour in the mixture, sprinkle a tea-spoonful of powdered ratafias over the top, and bake in a moderate oven for half an hour. Probable cost. Is. 2d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Orange Pudding (another way).—Boil the thin yellow rinds of two Seville oranges and one sweet one until they are quite soft. Dfain them well, and pound them to a paste- Beat a quarter of a pound of fresh butter to a cream, add a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar, the orange paste, the strained juice of the sweet orange, and a table-spoonful of brandy. Whisk four eggs thoroughly, and stir them in with the rest. Line a shallow dish with good puff-paste, pour in the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven for half an hour. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Orange Pudding, Boiled.—Take the thin yellow rind of two Seville oranges, and boU them until tender. Drain them well, and pound them to a paste. Pour a pint of boiling milk over a quarter of a pound of sponge-cakes or finely-grated bread-crumbs ; soak until cold, then add the .rind of the oranges, three table- spoonfuls of powdered sugar, the strained juice of a small lemon, two ounces of clarified butter, and four well-beaten eggs. Mix all thoroughly. Pour the mixture into a weU-buttered mould which it will quite fiU, tie the mould in a floured cloth, plunge it into boiling water, and let the pudding boil quickly until done enough. A pudding thus made may be steamed or baked as -weU as boiled. Half a dozen sweet almonds blanched and pounded will greatly improve the flavour. Time, one hour to boH or steam;. half an hour to bake. Probable cost, Is. Suffi- cient for three or four persons. Orange Punch.—Dissolve a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar in a pint of boiling water. Add the strained juice of a small lemon, a quarter of a pint of brandy, a quarter of a pint of orange wine, a quarter of a pint of rum, and, if liked, a glassful of maraschino or cura^oa. The punch may be taken either hot or cold, and if bottled and corked closely will keep for some time. A quarter of a pint of calf's-foot jelly will greatly improve it. Time, a few minutes to dissolve the sugar. Sufficient fov three pints of punch. Orange Salad.—Peel three or four good oranges, free them from the white skin, and cut them into slices of about a quarter of an inch in thickness. Arrange them neatly in a compote dish, strew three ounces of finely-powdered sugar over them, and pour upon them a ^vine-glassful of sherry, a wine-glassful of brandy, and another of rum or whiskj-. Cura^oa or maraschino may be used instead of the above mixture, if preferred. Many persons find no "wine so agreeable in an orange salad as port. This dish should, if possible, be made the day before it is wanted. Orange Sauce for Cold Meat.—Eub the rind of two sweet oranges upon three or four lumps of sugar. Put these into a basia, and mix with them a wine-glassful of port or claret, a quarter of a pint of dissolved red- currant jelly, a shallot finely minced, a tea- spoonful of mixed mustard, a pinch of cayenne, and two table-spoonfuls of thin strips of orange rind. This sauce, if bottled and corked, will keep for some time. It will requife to be dis- solved before it is used. Time, five or six minutes to dissolve the jeUy. Probable cost, exclusive of the wine, 8d. Sufficient for six or seven persons.ORA ORA ( 480 ) Orange Sauce for Ducks and Wild Powl.—iiuil Iho yellow riiiil of two Suviliis oranges until it is quito tender. Cut it into thin strips about half an ineh long. Pour ov(.'r theso tho strained juieo of the oranges, a glassful of sherry or madeira, and a quarter of a pint of "Nvhito stock. Siinuior gently for iivo or six minutes, then add a pinch of cayenne and a littlo salt, if required. 8ervo very hot. Pro- hablo cost, exclusive of the wino, 4d. Sufficient for tivo or six persons. Orange Sauce for Sweet Puddings. —Rub thi'oo or four large lumps of sugar upon Iho rind of a largo sweet orango until all tho yellow part is taken off. Scrapo out tho pulp and juico of two oranges, and add them to tho flavoiu-ed sugar. Mix a tea-spoonful of aiTOw- Toot very smoothly with three table-spoonfuls •of maraschino or cura9oa. Stir all gently over the fire for thi-ee or foirr minutes until the sauce thickens, then serve immediately. Pro- bable cost, exclusive of the liqueur, 2d. Suffi- cient for three persons. Orange, Seville, Paste for Dessert. —Pare the yellow rind from some smooth- skinned Seville oranges, and be careful not to take with it the white thin skin which covers the fruit. Throw the rinds into boiling water, and let them keep boiling imtil they are quite tender, then place them upon an inverted sieve, and, as soon as the water has run from them, pound them in a mortar with as much pow- dered sugar as they will take. Roll the paste out to the thickness of a quarter of an inch, stamp it into shapes with an ordinary pastry- cutter, and put these upon buttered paper in a very slow oven. When they are dry on one side, turn them to the other. Put them in a tin box between, sheets of writing-paper, and store in a warm place. Probable cost of Se\-ille oranges, Is. per dozen. Time, about two hours to boil the rind. Orange-skins, Jelly in (sec Jelly in Orange-skins). Orange Snow-balls. —Throw half a pound of best Carolina rice loose into a sauce- pan of boiling water, and boil it quickly for five nunutes. Peel four sweet oranges, and care- fully remove the thick white skin without injuring the fruit. Drain the rice, and when it is cool spread it out in four equal parts on four small pudding cloths. Place one of the • pared oranges on each of these, gather tho cloth carefuUy round it, and tie it securely. Plunge the dumplings into boiling water, and let them remain on the fire until done enough. Turn them out carefully, sprinkle powdered sugar over them, and send orange sauce to table with them. Time to boil, one hour and a half. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for four persons. Orange Souffle.—Rub three oimccs of ground nee, or, if preferred, dried flour, with two ounces of fresh butter. Pour upon these half a pint of milk sweetened and flavoured with lumps of sugar which have been rubbed upon tho rinds of sweet oranges. Pour the jnixturo into a saucepan, and stir it briskly \intil it boils. Turn it into a basin, and whcfi cool add the -well-beaten yolks of three and the whites of five eggs. Bake in a souffle- disli, in a moderate oven. Tie a broad band of well-oiled pajjor round tho top to prevent tho butter falling over when it rises liigh in tho disli. Serve tho souflle the moment it is taken out of tlie oven, or it will fall and its appear- ance bo si)oilt. Time to bake, Jialf an hour. Probable cost, lOd. SulMciout for 11 vo or six persons. Orange Souffl(5 (another way).—Mix a desseii-spoonful of flour very smoothly with lialf a pint of new milk or cream. Add the eighth of a small nutmeg grat(;d, a table- spoonful of orange-flower water, and the thin rind of a sweet orange. Put tho mixture into an enamelled saucepan, and stir it over tlie lire until it boils. Strain through coureo muslin, and when nearly cold add four eggs well beaten, two table-spoonfuls of brandy, and a heaped table-spoonful of orange marmalade. Stir briskly fox two or three minutes, pour the souffle into a buttered mould, and place the mould, without tjdng it, in a cloth in a saucepan of boiling water, being careful only that the water in the pan is not sufficiently high to flow into the mould. Pin a hot napkin round the mould before serving, and sprinkle pounded sugar over the souffle. Time to boil, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, 8d., exclusive of the brandy. Sufficient for four or five persons. Orange Sponge.—Dissolve an ounce of isinglass or gelatine in half a pint of water. Strain the liquid, and when it is nearly cool add the juice of seven oranges, two of which should be bitter, and three-quarters of a pound of loaf sugar boiled to a syrup in as much water as it will absorb. Put the mixture aside untn it is quite cold, but not at all stiff. Beat in with it the well-whisked whites of three eggs, and continue whisking imtil the sponge thickens. Turn it into a damp mould, and set it in a cool place imtil wanted. Time, half an hour to clarify the isinglass. Probable cost, 2s. 4d. Sufficient for a quart mould. Orange Syrup (for making Orangeade, &c.).—Take a dozen sweet oranges and two bitter ones. Rub off the yellow rinds with a pound of sugar in lumps, and boil this with as much water as it will absorb imtil it is quite clear. Strain the juice, add it to the sj-rup, and stir the mixture over the fire for two or three minutes; it must not boil after the juice is added. Pour at once into bottles, and cork closely as soon as the syrup is cold. As rubbing the rinds of the oranges with sugar involves both time and trouble, the sjTup may be more easily made as follows (the flavour, however, v.n\\ not be quite so fine) :—Cut off the yellow rinds oi the oranges as thin as possible, and be careful not to take any of tho white part. Barely cover them with water, and let them simmer very gently for half an hour. Strain the Hquid, and" put it aside to cool. Squeeze and strain the orange-juice, put it in a saucepan over a slow fire for a few minutes, and carefully remove the scum as it rises. Put a pound of sugar and a table-spoonful of the liquid in which the peels were boiled to each half a pint of juice, and simmer all gently for ten or fifteen minutes. Put the syrup at once into bottles, and when it( 481 ) OHA ORA is cool cork closely. Probable cost, la. per pint. Orange Tart or Tartlets—Take two Sevillo oranges and double their weight in re- fined sugar. Boil the thin rinds in a little water until tender, then pound thorn in a mortar, and mix with them the pulp of the frxiit which has been freed from the pips and juice, the sugar, and half an ounce of fresh butter. Line the edges of a tart-dish with good puff-paste, put in the orange mixture, cover the dish with crust, fasten the edges se- curely, and bake in a moderate oven. Or, line some patty-pans with puff-pastry, half fiU them with the onuige mixture, lay narrow strips of pastry over them as an ornament, and bake as before. Time to bake the tart, three-quarters of an hour; the tartlets, twenty minutes. Pro- bable cost, 6d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Orange-water Ice.—Rub the rind of two oranges with three or four lumps of sugar until the yellow part is taken off, and dissolve the lumps in a little warm syrup; if the rind is rubbed too hard the ice will be bitter. Strain the juice of six oranges and a lemon, stir into it, with half a pint of water, a pint of clarified sugar and the flavoui'ed syrup. Mix thoroughly. Strain and freeze in the usual way. Probable cost. Is. Suflicient for a quart of ice. Orange Wine.—Orange wine should be made in March. Boil twenty-eight pounds of loaf sugar with eight gallons of water, and the well-whisked whites and crushed shells of four eggs. Remove the scum as it rises, let the liquid cool, then add the juice of ninety Seville oranges, and mix thoroughly. Strain the liquid, ferment it with half a pound of yeast on a toast, and let it stand for twenty-four hours. Put it into the 'cask, and when fermentation ceases, which will be when it gives up hissing, bung the cask up closely. The wine may be racked in three months, and bottled in twelve. If it is desired to add the flavour of the orange- peel to this wine, though it will be more gener- ally agreeable without, infuse the rinds of fifty of the oranges in two gallons of the clarified sugar for four days, then strain the liquid, and add it to the rest. If it is considered necessary to have a little brandy in the wine, a quart may be put into the cask with the liquid, and an- other quart added when the wine is racked off. Time, half an hour to boil the sugar. Probable cost, 28. 2d. per gallon, exclusive of the brandy. Sufficient for ten gallons. Orange Wine (an easy way of making). —In making orange wine it may be calculated that ton Seville oranges and three pounds of loaf sugar are required for every gallon of wine. If, therefore, it is wished to make nine gallons of wine, put the strained juice of ninety Seville oranges and twenty-seven pounds of loaf sugar mto a cask which is perfectly sweet and dry Put the pulp from which the juice has been squeezed mto a large pan, and pour over it a gallon and a half of water let it stand for twenty-four hours, then strain it into the cask, if the flavour of the orange-rind is desired though the wine will be more generally agree- Q able without it, peel half the oranges, and put the thin rinds into another pan; then pour half the quantity of water which was on the pulp over the skins, and lot them also infuse twenty- four hours, when strain the liquid into the cask. Pour a gallon and a half of water again over the pulp and rinds, let the water stand for a day, then add it to the rest; and repeat this performance imtil the cask is quite full, which will be in about a week. Stir the contents daily. Three days after the cask is full, bung it up closely, and bottle the wine in nine months. It may be used after it has been bottled three months. Time, ten days to make the wine. Probable cost, 2s. 2d. per gallon. Sufficient for a nine- gallon cask. Orangeade.—Make a syrup by boiling six oxmces of loaf sugar in half a pint of water until the sugar is dissolved. Pour it over the thin yellow rinds of two small oranges, and let them infuse for two or three hours. Strain the juice of six oranges into a glass jug. Add the flavoured sjrrup, first passing it through a jelly- bag, and a pint and a half of cold water. Drink the orangeade cold. A glassful of calf 's-f oot stock is an improvement. Time, two or three hours to infuse the rinds. Probable cost, 8d. Suffi- cient for two pints and a half. Orangeade (at all seasons).—Pour a pint of brandy, or rectified spirits of wine, over the thin rind and strained juice of two oranges. Cover the infusion closely, and leave in a warm place for six weeks, shaking it every day. At the end of that time filter it through muslin, and put it into small bottles. Cork these closely, and store them until wanted. When orangeade is required, it is only necessary to dissolve a small limip of sugar in haK a pint of spring water, and add a dessert-spoonful of the orange-flavoured spirit. Probable cost, 2d. Sufficient for a pint of orangeade. Oranges and Apples, Compote of.— Take half a dozen fine sweet apples and three oranges. Rub the skins well with a soft cloth, and cut them across in very thin round slices. Arrange the pieces alternately in a circle in a glass dish, with one piece half over the other, and pour over them a syrup made according to the directions given in a succeeding recipe {see Oranges, Compote of). Serve when cold. Time, five or ten minutes to boil the syrup. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Oranges and Apples, Florentine of {see Florentine of Oranges and Apples). Oranges, Coloured, for Dessert.— Crush three or four ounces of doubly-refined sugar to powder. Pour over it a few drops of prepared cochineal, and move the sugar about with the fingers until it is all equally coloured, then put the dish which contains it on the fender until it is quite dry. Peel half a dozen ripe oranges, free them entirely from the thick white skin and thready parts, but bo very careful not to pierce the fruit itself. RoU the oranges in the coloured sugar, arrange them neatly on a dish, and garnish with sprigs of myrtle. Time, a quarter of an hour to dry the sugar. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for six persons.( 482 ) ORA ORA Oranges, Compote of.—Pare tho rind vory tkiixty oit throe or four liirgo sound orangoH. Cut tho fruit across into halvos, removing tho •whito skin and pips, and pilo the oranges in a glass dish. Boil the rind with half a pint of water and a quarter of a pound of sugar until tho syrup is clear; mix a table-spoonful of brandy with it, and strain it over tho fruit. "When cold it is ready to servo. A table-spoon- ful of arrowroot niay be mixed with tho syrup to thicken it, and two or thi-ee drops of cochi- neal may be put by way of colouring. Time, five or ten minutes to boil the syrup. Probable cost, exclusive of tho brandy, id. Sufficient for three or four persons. Oranges Filled with Jelly.—When a large variety of dishes is required, orange-skins are sometimes emptied entirely of the fruit, cut out in the shape of baskets, and filled with bright clear jeUy of different colours. They look pretty, vory great care and a sharp knife, however, are required to make them. The handle of the basket should be cut across the stalk-end of the fruit, and should be fully half CRANQES FILLED WITH JELLT. an inch wide. The basket-part should take up half of the orange. The best way to make these baskets is to mark out their shape first ■without piercing the fruit, then take away the quarters of the rind which will not be required, and pass the flat part of a tea-spoon carefully \inder the handle to separate it from the frwit, •which must then be pressed out through the empty spaces. The jelly should be nearly cold before it is put into the skins. Probable cost, oranges, Id. each. (See Jelly in Orauge Skins). Oranges in Syrup (a dessert dish).—Peel four or five large oranges, and remove all the ■white pith and thready parts without injuring in the slightest degree the thin transparent skin which covers the fruit. Boil half a pound of loaf sugar in a quarter of a pint of water to a clear syrup, add a wine-glassful of maraschino or any other liqueur or spirit that may be pre- ferred, and pour the hot hquid over the oranges. Let them remain for three or four hours, then turn them over; boil tho syrup up once more, and pour it again upon the oranges. Serve in a compote dish, and garnish with sprigs of myrtle. The quantity of sugar used for tho syrup must depend upon the season, and if it is early in the "winter, and the oranges aro sour, a larger pro- poition of sugar should be used, and besides this tho oranges should be boiled in the syrup for a few minutes. Time, ten minutes to boil the syrup. Probable cost, exclusive of the spirit, Gd. Sufficient for four or five persons, i Oranges, Moulded (a pretty supper dish). —This dish, though very pretty, is lather dif- ficult to prepare. Peel three or four krgo oranges, being careful not to break the thin skin winch divides them. Oil a small plam mould thoroughly. Boil a quarter of a pormd of loaf sugar in three table-spoonfuls of water to crack- ling height, dip the edges of the orange-sections into this, arrange them in layers round the sides only of the mould, and fasten them to- gether -with the sugar. When they are firm, turn them on a dish, and fiU the centre with whipped cream. Time, ten or twelve minutes to boil the sugar. Probable cost, exclusive of the cream, 6d. Sufficient for a srnall mould. Oranges, Pickled.—Take half a dozen fine Se-ville oranges. Cut them deeply, rub them well with salt, and let them stand in a warm place for four or five days. Sprinkle a table-spoonful of coriander-seeds over them, and cover them -with a pint and a half of boiling ■vinegar in which two blades of mace have been simmered for two minutes. Boil the ■vinegar once or t'wice, and pour it again upon the oranges, then cover the jar ■with bladder, and store for use. This pickle ought to be kept fully two months before it is used. It should be served with -wild fowl. Time, six or eight minutes to prepare. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Oranges Preserved "Whole.-Take some Seville oranges. Weigh them, and allow two pounds of sugar to every pound of fruit. Scrape or grate off the thin outside of the rind. Make a small hole about the size of a sixpence in the top of each, and scoop out the pulp. Lay the oranges in cold water, and let them remain for three days, changing the water twice a day. Drain the oranges, put them into a large pan ■with as much cold water as will cover them, and boU them gently until they are tender. Boil the sugar to a syrup, putting half a pint of water to every pound of sugar. Add the pulp and juice ; let aU boil together for ten minutes, then skim carefully, pour the sjTup over tho oranges, and let them stand for an hour or two. Put them back into the preserAang-pan, and simmer gently until the oranges look clear, which should be in about half an hour, but if this is not the case, turn tho fruit into a bowl, boil the syrup every day for three days, and pour it hot upon the oranges. The juice of a lemon may be added to the syrup if this is Uked. Put the oranges side by side—the holes uppermost —into large shallow jars, pour tho sjTup over them, cover closely, and store in a cool dry( 483 ) ORA place. They will be ready for use in six or eight days. Probable cost of oranges, Is. per dozen. Oranges Preserved Whole, Carred. —The rind of oi-anyos preserved as above, in- stead of being scraped olf may be carved rather deeply in leaves, intersected lines, or any fanciful devices, and then emptied, soaked in water for three or four days, and boiled in syrup. They should be filled with as well as boiled in, the syrup, and it is best to boil this every day for four days, and pour it hot upon the oranges. Time, eight days to prepare. Probable cost of oranges. Is. per dozen. Orgeat {nee Almond SjTup, or Orgeat). Orgeat Ice Cream.—Take one ounce of sweet abnonds and two or three bitter ones. Blanch and pound them in a mortar with a little orange-liower water to prevent them oOing. Add gradually a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar, the weU-beaten yolks of eight eggs, and a pint of cream. Put the mixture into an enamelled saucepan, and stir it without ceasing until it begins to thicken. Pour it out, stir it again until it is cold, then freeze in the usual way. Time, five or six minutes to stir the mixture over the fire. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for a pint and a half of ice cream. Orgeat or Almond Milk (a refreshing drink).—Take two ounces of Jordan almonds and four bitter ones. Blanch them, put them into a mortar with two ounces of powdered sugar, and pound them to a smooth paste, and whilst pounding them keep dropping half a tea-spoonful of cold water on them to pre- vent oiling. Put them into a basin, and pour gradually over them a pint of cold water, stir them for three or four minutes, cover them over, and leave them in a cool place for two hours. Strain the liquid thi-ough a napkin into a glass jug, and put it, if possible, in ice iintil wanted for use. Before serving, mix with the almond milk an equal proportion of cold water. Orgeat should be made the day it is used, as it will not keep sweet long. Probable cost, 3d. Sufficient for a pint of orgeat. Orgeat, Syrup of (for flavouring sauces, cream, &c.).—Take half a pound of sweet almonds and two ounces of bitter ones. Blanch and pound them in a mortar, and whilst pound- ing keep adding a few drops of orange-flower water to prevent oiling. Stir in by degrees two pints of cold water; add two pounds and a half of powdered and sifted sugar, two ounces of orange-flower water, and two drachms of the essence of lemon. Put the mixture into a warm place for five or six hours, then boil for ten minutes. Strain through a calico bag, and press out all the milk of the almonds. If the syrup is not suffi- ciently thick, it should be boiled again on the following day. When it is cold, bottle for use. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for two quarts of orgeat. Orleans Plum.—This is a handsome frait which takes its namo from a district in France. It is not so good as it looks, but is more culti- vated than even the greengage, which is both the most agreeable and the most wholesome of all the plums. Orleans Plums (to bottle for winter use). Have in readiness some perfectly clean and dry wide-necked bottles. Pick the fruit, which must bo sound and freshly gathered, rub it well with a soft cloth, taking care not to injure the skins, and put it into the bottles; fiU these up with a syrup made by boiling three-quarters of a pound of sugar with half a pint of water for ten minutes. Cork the bottles closely, tie a piece of moistened bladder over them, and put them in a large pan of water over a gentle fire. Let the water boil for a quarter of an hour, then lift the pan off the fire, leaving the bottles in the pan until the water is cold. Store the fruit in a dry place. Probable cost of plums, 3d. to 6d. per pound. Orleans Plums (to bottle for winter use), another way. — Prepare the plums as in the last recipe. Weigh them, and put them in perfectly dry bottles or jars with half a pound of sugar to each pound Oi plums. Put the sugar in after the fruit, and do not shake it down. Tie moistened bladder over the tops of the bottles, and put them up to their necks in a saucepan of cold water. Bring them slowly to the boil, then let them simmer gently for three hours. Lift the pan from the fire, and let the bottles remain in the water until it is cold. Store in a dry place. Probable cost of plums, 3d. to 6d. per pouud. Orleans Pudding.—Put one ounce of gelatine into a basin with a quarter of a pint of cold water, and let it soak for half an hour. Whisk the yolks of five eggs thoroughly, and add very gradually a pint of hot milk or cream, and six ounces of powdered sugar. Put the custard into an enamelled saucepan over a gentle fire, and stir until it begins to thicken ; add the soaked gelatine, and stir until the gela- tine is dissolved. Put half an ounce of picked currants, half an ounce of stoned raisins, and an ounce of finely-minced candied peel into a saucepan with a quarter of a pint of brandy, and simmer gently for twenty minutes. Oil a plain round mould; spread a thin layer of cream at the bottom, say about half an inch in thickness ; strew a little of the fruit upon this, and let it set, and then a layer of Naples biscuits finely crumbled, and a layer of crushed ratafias. Repeat until the mould is full. Put the pudding into a cool place until it is firmly set; if possible, place it in ice. Turn it on a dish, and garnish with dried cherries and strips of candied peel. Time, ten minutes to thicken the pudding. Probable cost, exclusive of the brandy, 2s. Sufficient for five or six persons. Ortolans.—These birds, though small and very rare, are much esteemed by epicures for the deUcacy of their flesh. They are in season from November to February. Ortolans, Potted.—Cut off the necks, heads, and legs of some ortolans, and season them with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Prepare some chicken forcemeat—the quantity to be regulated by the size of the potting-pan and the number of ortolans. Spread a layer( 484 ) OX ORT of forcemeat at the bottom of the pan, place an ortolan upon it, and then Honie more force- moat, and coutinuo until the pun is full, ro- momhoring only that the topmost hiy^v whould conaist of forcomout. Ijay some tliin alicoB of fat bacon on the top, put on the cover, and bake in a moderate oven. Two or tliroe trufllos finely minced, and spread upon the layers of forcemojit, are a groat improvement to this dish. To be served cold. I'ime to bake, one hour. Probable cost, uncertain, ortolans being seldom otfered for sale. OMOLAITS. Ortolans, Roasted.—Truss the ortolans without drawing them. Lay" first a vine-leaf and then a thin slice of bacon over the breast of each, and tie the leaf and bacon on with string. Put the birds down to a brisk fire, and baste them liberally. Dish upon toast which has been placed under them whilst they were roasting, and garnish the dish with water- cresses. Send orange gravy to table in a tureen. Time, twenty-five minutes to roast. Probable cost, uncertain, ortolans being seldom offered for sale. Sufficient, half a dozen for six persons. Ortolans, Stewed, -with Truflaes.— Take as many large even-sized trufiles as there are ortolans. Make a large round hole in the middle of each trufiie, and put in it a little chicken forcemeat. Cut off the heads, necks, and feet of the ortolans, season them with a little salt and pepper, and lay each bird on its back in one of the trufiles. Arrange them side by side in a deep stew-pan, lay thin slices of bacon upon them, pour over them in equal proportions as much good stock and madeira as will cover them, and simmer thorn very gently for twenty-five minutes. Dish the ortolans and the trufiles on toast, and pile them high in the dish. Strain tho gravy, thicken it to the consistency of cream, and pour it over the birds. Sufficient, half a dozen for four persons. Oswego Cakes.—Rub a quarter of a pound of fresh butter to a cream. Add four ounces of powdered and sifted sugar, six ounces of Oswego, a table-spoonful of milk, and three weU-whiflkod eggs. Flavour the cakes accord- ing to taste, either with cu:rants, caraway-seeds candied peel, grated nutmeg, or essence of lemon. Beat the mixtui-e briskly for a quarter ot an hour, half fill with it some well-oiled small moulds, and bake in a good oven Time ten minutes to bake. Probable cost, Is. Oude Curry.—Take any cold mc^t, beef mutton, game, or poultry, and divide it into convenient-sized pieces. Cut a large Spanish onion into thin slices; fry these in four ounces of butter, and pour over them a quarter of a pint of good gravy. Mix a smaU table-spoonful of curry-powder smoothly with the sauce; add the pieces of meat, and simmer all gently together for two hours. Before serving the curry, add a dessert-spoonful of strained lemon- juice. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of the cold meat. Sufficient for four persons. Oude Sauce for Cold Meat.—Mince two onions very finely. Fry them in two ounces of clarified butter, and stir them about until they are lightly browned without being burnt. Add half a dozen chillies cut into small pieces, a quarter of a tea-spoonful of salt, and one ounce of the fiesh of a dried haddock which has been torn into fiakes with two forks. Stir all well together for three or four minutes, and whilst stirring add, in small quantities at a time, a dessert-spoonful of strained lemon-juice, two table-spoonfuls of tomato-pulp, and a little water. When the sauce is as thick as paste it is ready for serving. It should be made the day on which it is to be used. Time, altogether, about twenty minutes. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Oven, American (see American Oven). Ox Brains (en Matelote).—Take half a dozen button-onions. Put them whole into a stewpan with an oimce and a half of fresh butter, and move them about until they are soft and yellow. Dredge a dessert-spoonful of flour over them, and moisten with nearly half a pint of good stock and a glassful of red wine. Add a few sprigs of parsley, a sprig of winter savoury, a bay-leaf, a tea-spoonful of salt, half a drachm of cayenne, half a blade of mace, and three or four small mushrooms if they are at hand. Simmer the sauce gently for half an hour. Clean the ox-brains verj'' care- fully, and remove all the skin and fibrous parts. Lay them in lukewarm water to soak, then take them up and drain them, put them into the sauce, and let them simmer gently for half an hour. Serve on a hot dish; remove the herbs from the sauce, and pour it upon them. Probable cost, exclusive of the wine, Is. 6d. Sufficient for two or three persons. Ox Brains, Fried. — Wash the brains carefully in two or three waters, remove all the blood, skin, and fibre, and lay them in warm water to blanch. Put them into boiling salt and water, and simmer gently for half an hour. Drain them, make them into balls the size of a small egg, dip them into beaten egg and finely-grated brcad-crumba, and fry them in plenty of hot fat until they are brightly browned all over. Place them on a hot dish, squeeze the juice of half a small lemon(486) ox OX over them, and giirniiili with slices of cut lemon and parsley. Time to fry, ton minutes. Pro- bable cost, Is. 3d. Ox Cheek, Baked.—Wash a large fresh ox cheek in two or three waters, then let it soak for some hours in cold water. Drain it well, and put it into lukewarm water, let it boil, skim the liquid carefully, and simmer the cheek gently for a couple of hours. Take it up, remove the bones, lay the cheek on a flat board, and spread upon it a layer of good veal forcemeat. Koll it firmly, bind securely with tape, and bake in a moderate oven. Place it on a hot dish, remove the tapes, and send tomato, piquant, or good brown sauce, to table with it. Time, one hour and a half to bake the cheek. Probable cost, 6d. per pound. Suffi- cient for seven or eight persons. Ox Cheek, Boiled.—Many excellent and economical dishes may be made from an ox cheek, which is highly gelatinous and nourish- ing, and often proves very useful in large families. Take a moderate-sized ox cheek, or half a large one. Wash carefully, and soak it in cold water for five or six hours. Drain it, rub it well with a table-spoonful of salt and a tea-spoonful of pepper, and put it into a large pan with four quarts of cold water, two or three sticks of celery, and two onions. When it boils, skim carefully, draw it to the side of the fire, and simmer very gently until it is quite tender, which will be in three hours from the time of boiling. Place the head on a dish with a little of the gravy, and send turnips, carrots, and potatoes to table with it. The liquid will make excellent broth. Probable cost, 6d. per pound. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Ox Cheek Cheese (see Cheese, Ox Cheek). Ox Cheek, Cold.—Cut the remains of an ox cheek which has been boiled untU quite tender into neat slices. Arrange these on a dish, and pour over them a sauce prepared as follows:—Beat the yolk of an egg for two or three minutes, then mix with it half a tea- upoonful of mixed mustard, a pinch of pepper and salt, eight table-spoonfuls of oil, and two table-spoonfuls of tarragon vinegar. The oil should be put in first in very small quantities at a time, and the sauce should be well beaten between each addition, or the oil will not mix well. Garnish the dish with parsley, and send bread and butter to table with it. Time, half an hour to beat the sauce. Probable cost, 8d., exclusive of the cold meat. Ox Cheek, Potted (a breakfast or supper dish).—Pick the meat from an ox cheek which has been simmered until it is quite tender. Mince it very finely, and mix with it a tea- spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of pepper, a quarter of a nutmeg grated, and a table- spoonful of powdered thyme. Put it in a plain mould, cover with a dish, and place a weight upon the top. Serve cold. Time, four hours to simmer the ox check. Probable cost of ox cheek, 6d. per pound. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Ox Cheek, Sliced and Fried.—Cut the remains of a cold ox cheek which has been boiled or stewed until quite tender into neat slices, and dip those into egg and bread-crumbs, grate a little nutmeg over them, and fry them in hot fat till they are lightly browned. Serve on a hot dish, and garnish with plices of lemon. Time to fry, .ten minutes. Pro bable cost of ox cheek, 6d. per pound. Ox Cheek Soup.—Wash an ox cheek thoroughly in lukewarm water, then put it into a large saucepan with two ounces of lean ham, an onion stuck with twelve cloves, a turnip, two carrots, three or four sticks of celery, 8 tea-spoonful of peppercorns, a blade of mace, a bunch of parsley, a small sprig of thyme, a table-spoonful of salt, a bay-leaf, and three quarts of water. Bring the liquid to a boU, remove the scum as it rises, then draw the pan to the side of the fire, and sinuner gently for four hours. Take up the cheek, cut off about half a pound of the meat in slices half an inch thick, and put it back into the broth. Mix two table-spoonfuls of ground rice or plain flour with two table-spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup and half a table-spoonful of soy; add this to the soup, and simmer it an hour longer. Turn a large carrot and turnip into the shape of peas, olives, &c., according to fancy, peel and trim neatly a quarter of a pint of lautton-onions, cut the slices of ox cheek into inch square pieces, and fry all these in hot butter until they are tender and lightly browned. Strain the soup^ return it to the pan with the fried vegetables, &c., boil them together for ten or fifteen minutes, and serve. Time altogether, six hours. Pro- bable cost. Is. per quart. Sufficient for ten or twelve persons. Ox Cheek, Stewed.—Prepare the ox cheek as in the last recipe. Let it simmer for two hours, then take it up, drain it, and put the liquid aside to cool. Remove the thick layer of tat which will coUect on the top, and put the soup back into the pan with the ox cheek. Let it boil once more, then add a large onion with six cloves stuck in it, a basinful of mixed vegetables cut into small pieces, and consisting of three turnips, three carrots, two leeks, three sticks of celery, two or three sprigs of parsley, a small sprig of thyme, two bay-leaves, a blade of mace, half a tea-spoonful of peppercorns, and a little more salt, if required. Simmer two hours longer. Take up the meat, cut it into neat slices. Strain the gravy. Thicken one pint and a half of it with a little butter rolled in flour, and serve the slices in a dish with the sauce poured over them. A glassful of red wine may be stirred into this sauce, or it may be drawn from the fire for a minute or two, and then mixed with the weU-beaten yolks of two eggs ; or a little lemon-juice may be squeezed over the meat, and the sauce poured over after- wards. Probable cost of ox cheek, 6d. per poimd. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Ox Eyes.—Cut some slices of stale bread three-quarters of an inch in thickness. Toast them, stamp them in rounds three inches in diameter, and take out of the middle of each round a smaller round one inch and a half xnOX ( 486 ) ox diameter; ho careful to loavo the rings (inn and unl)n)ken. Place thorn on a well-buttorod dish, and lot them soak in sour cream until they aro Boft, then lay a raw egg in the middle of eacli ring. Sprinkle u little salt and pepper over them, and put a tea-spoonful of milk on each egg- , I'^ut the-n in a hot oven, and lot them remain until cno whites aro sot, but they nmst not bi-owu. Garnish with water-crosses. Time, ten minutes to set the eggs. If liked, the broad can bo floured well and fried in fat. The eggs ™Y t^e"^, bo poached separately. Probable cost ot half a dozen ox eyes, 8d. Ox Heart, Baked.—Wash the heart m several waters. Cut away the lobes, and let it soak for three hours in vinegar and water. Drain, and slico into thin steaks cut tho long way of the heart. Grease a pie-dish, and lay eome sliced potatoes at the bottom of it. Put two or three rashers of bacon on these, then the heart, then bacon again, and afterwards more potatoes, and repeat until tho dish is full, being careful to put potatoes on the top of aU. Dredge a little pepper over each layer as it is put in, and salt if required. This will depend upon the quality of the bacon. Pour half a pmt of water over the whole, and bake in a moderate oven. A little browning added to the gravy will improve the appearance. Time to bake, one hour and a half {see Heart, Bullock's). Ox Heel Stock for Jelly.—FoUow the directions given in Calf's Foot Stock for Jelly. Ox Kidney {see Kidney, Ox, Stewed). Ox Liver, To Cure and Preserve, for Gravy.—Mix half a pound of moist sugar with two table-spoonfuls of salt. Rub the liver well Avith this mixture, lay it in a shallow pan, and turn it and rub it every day for a week. Make a pickle by boiling a pound of salt and an ounce and a half of saltpetre in a gallon of water for a quarter of an hour. Pour it when cold over the liver, and let the liver remain in the pickle for six weeks, turning it every other day. Take it out, drain it well, and hang it in a cool place. When dry, it is ready for use. The liver should be cured in cold weather. When gravy is required, cut about four ounces of the liver into thin slices. Pour over them a pint of cold water and any flavouring that may be wished, and simmer gently for three- quarters of an hour. Strain and serve. Salt wiU not be needed. Probable cost of liver, 9d. per pound. Ox Palates.—Ox palates may be served in three or four different ways, but they always require the same preparation. They deserve to be better known than they are, as they are both inexpensive and wholesome. Three or four are enough for a dish. To prepare them, dissolve a handful of salt in a gallon of lukewarm water, put in the palates, let them lie for several hours, and press them frequently with the fingers to draw out the mucus. Drain them, and put them in a saucepan of cold water over a gentle fire. Let thorn heat gradually, and before the water boils lift them out and scrape off the homy skin which covers tho roof-part until they look white and cle^r. If the water boils, the akin will be diflicult to peol oS. Ox Palates, Curried.—Soak and boU tlu-eo ox palates as before directed. Press them between dishes, and when cold cut them into pieces an inch and a lialf sqiuiro. Put three sliced onions and one apple into a stewpan with two ounces of butter. Cover them closely and let them steam until they are tender, but they they must not brown. Mix a dossert-spoonful of curry-powder veiy smoothly with half a pint ot good gravy. Pour this into the saucepan, and add a tea-spoonful of vinegar, a dessert- spoonful of brandy, a small lump of sugar, a little salt and pepper if requiied, and the sliced palates. Simmer gently for half an hour, then take out the palates, and strain the gravy! Mix a dessert-spoonful of ground rice very smoothly with a table-spoonful of musliroom ketchup. Thicken the gravy with this, put in the palates again, and boil gently half an hour longer. Serve the palates on a hot dish, with a border of rice boiled as for curry round it. Sufficient for three or four persons. Ox Palates, Grilled.—Prepare four ox palates as before directed. Put them into a stewpan with as much water or stock as will cover them, and let them boil until they are quite tender, then draki them, and press them between two dishes until they are cold. Cut them in slices two inches long and half an inch wide, lay these in a pie-dish, and cover them with a marinade made of a quarter of a pint of vinegar, two table-spoonfuls of sweet-oil, half a tea-spoonful of pepper, a spoonful of salt, a bunch of parsley, half a dozen chives, and two or three bay-leaves. When they have soaked in this for an hour or two, drain them, cover them with crumbs of bread, and fry them in hot fat until they become brown. Or, after they are taken out of the marinade, make a paste by mixing a heaped table-spoonful of flour very smoothly with the weU-beaten yolks of two eggs, and adding a table-spoonful of sweet-oil, a little salt and pepper, and a glassful of sherry. Dip the slices of palate in this batter, and fry them as before. Drain the fat carefuUy from them, and dish them in a circle on a hot dish. Send piquant or tomato sauce to table with them. Time, four hours to boil the palates; five minutes to fry them. Suffi- cient for four persons. Ox Palates Stewed.—Prepare and boil three palates as before directed. Cut them into pieces, and place them in a stewpan with three- quarters of a pint of brown gra,vy, and a wine- glassful of sherry or port. Let them simmer gently for half an hour, then thicken the gra\'y with a little rice-flour, and serve very hot. 0.x tails may be stewed and dished ^rith the ox palates. The slices of palate are sometimes larded and lightly browned before being stewed. Time to boil the palates, four hours. Sufficient for three persons. Ox Palates with Macaroni.—Skin and boil throe palates as before directed. Press them between two dishes, and when cold cut tho best part into slices two inches long and haK an inch wide. Put them into a stewpan, cover thorn with, nicely-sonsoned eTa\7', add a glassful of sherry, and simmer vor^- gently for half an houi". PiLo half a pound of hotox ( ) OX macaroni in the middle of a dish, arrange the sliced palates round it, and send the gravy in which they were stewed to table in a tureen. Time, four hours to boil the palates. SuflGlcient for four persons. Ox, Sectional Diagram of the (see illustration in connection with the article on Beef). Ox Tail, Breaded and Broiled.— This is an excellent way of serving the remains of stewed ox tails. If made with fresh meat, joint and cut up the tails, put them into boil- ing water, and let them simmer for a quarter of an hour, then soak them in cold water for one hour. Take them up, drain them, and put them into a saucepan with as much broth or water as will cover them, and let them stew until tender; then lift them out carefully, and when they are cold season them with pepper and salt, and sprinkle over them a little finely- minced parsley and shallot. Dip them in egg and bread-crumbs, then in clarified butter, and again in egg and bread-crumbs, and broil on a gridiron until they are brightly browned all over; or, if more convenient, place them in a dripping-tin with a little clarified butter, and let them bake until they are brightly browned. They may be dished on mashed spinach, mashed potatoes, or stewed cabbage, or, if preferred, served without vegetables, with piquant sauce, tomato sauce, shallot gravy, or Tartar sauce, in a tureen. Time, about two hours to stew the tails; three or four minutes to broil them ; twenty minutes to bake them. Probable cost, from Is. to 28. each. Sixfficient, two tails for five or six persons. Ox Tail, Haricot of.—Take two fresh ox tails, joint them, and divide them into convenient-sized pieces. Put them into boiling water, and let them simmer for a quarter of an hour; then take them up, drain them, and trim them neatly. Cover the bottom of a stewpan with any trimmings of meat or poultry that may be at hand; put in the pieces of ox taU, and with them a large onion stuck with four cloves, a few sticks of celery, a large bunch of parsley, a bay-leaf, a piece of garlic the size of a small pea, a quarter of a blade of mace, a tea- spoonful of salt, a dozen peppercorns, and two quarts of water or stock. Let them boU, then simmer gently until the meat will part easily from the bone. Carefully lift out the pieces of ox tail, and put them aside ; strain the gravy, and return it to the saucepan. When it boils thicken with a little flour and butter, and put into it half a pound of carrots and half a pound of turnips neatly shaped, and six or eight medium- sized onions. Boil gently until the vegetables are tender, skim the sauce carefully, and put in the pieces of ox tail. Add a little more salt and pepper if required, and a table-spoonful of browning; simmer ten minutes longer, and serve very hot. A pint of white haricot beans are a great improvement to this dish.. They should be put to soak the day before they are wanted, and boiled oeparately in plenty of water until tender ; then drained, and put as a border round the dish in which the stew is served. Time, two hours and a half or more to boil the tails. Probable cost of tails. Is. to 2s. each. Sufficient for seven or eight persons. Ox Tail Hotch-potch {see Hotch-potch, Ox Tail). Ox Tail, Simple Mode of Cooking.— Take a fresh ox tail, joint it, and cut it into pieces about two inches long, lloll the pieces in flour, place them side by side in a baking-dish, and sprinkle over them a little pepper and salt, a finely-minced onion, and a table-spoonful of chopped parsley. Pour a pint of stock or water upon them, and bake in a moderate oven. Serve on a hot dish with the gravy upon them. Time to bake, three hours and a half. Probable cost of ox tail, Is. to 28. Sufficient for three persons. Ox Tail Soup, Clear.—Cut a fine fresh ox tail into pieces an inch long, and divide the thick part into four. Wash these pieces, and throw them into boiling water for a quarter of an hour; then drain, and wipe them with a soft cloth. Put them into a stewpan with two carrots, an onion stuck Avith three cloves, a sprig of parsley, a small piece of thyme, two or three sticks of celery, half a blade of mace, a tea-spoonful of salt, six or eight peppercorns, and a quart of water or clear stock. Boil, remove the scum carefully as it rises, then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, and simmer very gently until the meat is tender. Lift out the pieces of ox taU, strain the soup, and if it is not clear and bright clarify it according to the directions given in Clear Soup, Excellent. Turn three carrots and two turnips into any small shapes that may be preferred, or into thin shreds an inch long, being careful only that they are all of the same size. Other vegetables may be used as well as turnips and carrots — such as French beans, green peas, asparagus, celery, or onions. Put these into a saucepan, pour the clarified stock over them, and simmer gently until the vegetables are tender. Heat the pieces of ox tail, pour the soup upon them, and serve as hot as possible. Time, about three hours to simmer the ox tail. Pro- bable cost, 28. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Ox Tail Soup, Thick.—This soup is, of course, much better if made with stock instead of water. If no stock is at hand, two penny- worth of fresh bones simmered gently with three quarts of water for six hours, and carefully skimmed, will make nearly two quarts of very good stock; or, if preferred, it can be made from fresh meat. Take two fine ox tails, wash them, cut them into pieces about an inch long, and divide the thick pieces into four. Put them into a stewpan with two ounces of fresh butter, and fry them until they are brightly browned. Slice some vegetables—two carrots, one turnip, two onions, and half a dozen sticks of celery, and fry them in the same butter, and with them two ounces of lean ham cut into dice. Pour over them a quart of water, and stir it over a quick fire for a quarter of an hour; then add two quarts of stock, a bunch of sweet herbs, a bay-leaf, a dessert-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of peppercorns, three cloves, and a lump of sugar. Simmer gentlyOX ( 488 ) until tho luoat ia tontlor and parts oauily from the bones, then take it out, strain tho soup, skim the fat from tho top of tho liquid, brown it in a saucepan, and mix smoothly with it two ounces of lino Hour. Thicken tho soup with this, and llavour it with two tablo-spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, add the pieces of tail, simmer a quarter of an hour longer, and servo. If preferred, tho vegetables may be crushcsd through a colander, and added to tho soiip in the form of a puree. A glassful of port may bo added or not. Serve fresh rolls with this soup. Time, four hours to simmer the soup. Pro- bable cost. Is. 6d. per quart. Sufficient for a dozen persons. Ox Tail, Stewed.—Take a fine ox tail, disjoint it, cut it into pieces about one inch and a half long, and divide the thick parts into quarters. Throw these pieces into boiling water, and let them remain for a quarter of an hour; then drain them, and soak them in cold water for an hour. Take them up, -wipe them with a soft cloth, and put them into a stewpan with two quarts of stock or water, a large onion stuck with three cloves, three carrots, a bunch of savoury herbs, and a little salt and pepper. Simmer gently until the meat parts easily from the bones, then put the pieces on a hot dish, reduce the gravy, strain it over them, and garnish with toasted sippets. A little lemon- juice is by some persons considered an improve- ment. Time, three hours and a half to stew the tail. Probable cost. Is. 6d. to 48. Suffi- cient for three or four persons. Ox Tail, Stewed, with G-reen Peas or Spinach..—Stew the ox tail according to the directions given in the last recipe. When the meat is tender, lift it out, strain the gravy, and reduce it to half the quantity. Pour it again over the meat, let it simmer a few minutes, then serve the stew, neatly arranged, in a circle on a hot dish, with green peas or spinach in the centre. Time, three hours and a half to stew the ox tail. Probable cost of ox tails, Is. 6d. to 48. each. Sufficient for three or four persons. Ox Tail with Matelote Sauce.—Take a large fresh ox tail, disjoint it, cut it into pieces two inches long, and blanch these in boiling water for a quarter of an hour; then take them up, dra,in then, and soak them in cold water for three-quarters of an hour. Put them in a saucepan, cover them with broth or water, bring them to the boil, then simmer thom gently for two hours. Take them up, strain the sauce, thicken three-quarters of a pint of it with a dessert-spoonful of flour and a little butter, add a dozen and a half of small fried onions, and a dozen button mush- rooms (or, as a substitute, a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup), a bunch of parsley, a small sprig of thyme and basil, a bay- leaf, and a little salt and pepper. Stew gently and skim carefully until the meat parts easily from the bones. Then add a pounded anchovj"-, a little grated nutmeg, and a glassful of claret. Boil up again, and serve the ox tail j)ilod in the centre of a hot dish; garnish with toawtod sippets, and strain the sauce over all. Time alLogoLhor, tliroo hours and a half to stow tho ox tail. Sufficient for throe persons. Probable cost of ox tail, from Is. 6d. to 48. Ox Tail with Piquant Sauce.—Take a fresli ox tail, disjoint it, and cut it into pieces two inclies long. Put these pieces into boilmg water for a quarter of an hour, then soak thom in cold water for three-quarters of an liour. Drain tho jjieces well, and wipe them with a soft cloth. Place them in a sauce- pan, cover with a pint of stock or water, and bring thom gradually to the boil. Re- move the scum as it rises, and put in with the meat two sliced onions, two sliced carrots, a piece of garlic about tho size of a small pea, a bunch of parsley, a small sprig of thyme, a bay- leaf, three cloves, and a little salt and pepper. Simmer gently until tho tail is tender and tho meat parts easily from the bones. Lift the meat out carefully, strain the sauce, stir into it a glass of sherry or madeira, a pinch of cayenne, four or five button onions, a tea-spoonful of strained lemon-juice, a table-spoonful of pickled gherkins finely minced, and a little brown thickening. Put back the pieces of meat, let them simmer half an hour longer, and serve them piled up in the centre of a hot dish with the gravy poured over them. Time, three hours to stew the ox tan. Probable cost of ox tail, from Is. 6d. to 4s., according to the season. Sufficient for three persons. Ox Tongue.—Ox tongues are generally preferred either pickled or smoked, though they are occasionally cooked when fresh. Recipes for both are given. A fresh tongue, after being trimmed, should be soaked in plenty of cold 01 TONOUE. water for one hour before it is cooked, a green tongue just taken out of pickle for four hours, and a salted and dried tongue for twenty-four hours. In choosing a tongue, select a plump one with a smooth skin, which is a sign that it is young and tender. If the thin part of a tongue is not eaten it should be preserved and dried. It will grate hkc hung beef, and will be found excellent for flavouring omelettes, and also for making tongue toast. Ox Tongue, Boiled.—Soak the tongue. Put it into a stewpan with plenty of cold \N-ater, an onion stuck with cloves, and a bunch of savourj' herbs. Bring the water verj- gradually to the boil, then draw the saucepan to the side, and simmer gently from three to four hours, according to the size. When the tongue is done enough—this may bo ascertained by pushing a skewer into it; if the skewer will enter easUy, the tongue is done—plunge it at OTiop into cold water, when the furred coaf ing can be easily drawn of£. If the tongue is to boox ( ) OX oaten hot, wrap it in greased paper, and waxm it in hot water for about twenty minutes, after taking oS the skin. Glaze it over two or three times until it looks cleiir, and send it to table with mashed turnips, boiled carrots, or stewed cabbage, or with tomato or piquant sauce. If it is to be eaten cold, place the root end against a boiu-d, and put a strong fork into the top and the end in order to bond it into a nice shape, and let it remain until it is firmly set. Glaze it, and before sending it to table ornament the root with a neat frill of cut paper. Or, roll the tongue—that is, turn the thick part into the middle, and press the tongue into a plain i-ound mould just large enough to hold it—put a dish with a weight upon it, and let it remain some hours. Glaze round it, and carve it like a fillet of veal. Tongue.which is to be eaten cold should be allowed to cool in the liquid in which it was boiled. Probable cost, 4s. to 6b. each. Sufiicient for eight or nine persons. Ox Tongue, Cured,—Cut away the root, which may afterwards be stewed for stock, leave a little of the fat, and trim the tongue neatly. Rub it well with common salt, and leave it until the next day; drain, and dry it. Mix together one ounce of pounded saltpetre, two ounces of moist sugar, and half a pound of salt. Dry them well, and rub every part of the tongue thoroughly with the powder. Turn it and rub it again every day for three weeks, when it will be ready for cooking, or, if not wanted immediately, for drying or smoking. Probable cost, 4s. to 6s. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Ox Tongue, Fresh, Boiled.—Soak a fresh ox tongue for an hour or more. Trim it neatly, and put it into a large stewpan with plenty of cold water, a bunch of savoury herbs, an onion stuck with three cloves, half a dozen peppercorns, and a table-spoonful of salt. Let it boil, then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, and simmer very gently for three hoirrs. Ascertain whether the tongue is done enough by pushing a skewer into it, then take off the outer skin, serve the meat on a hot dish, and send piquante or tomato sauce to table in a tureen. Probable cost, Ss. to 48. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Ox Tongue, Fresh, Larded—Soak the tongue, and boil it gently for about three hours. Take off the rough skin, and lard the upper part of the tongue evenly with strips of fat bacon. Put it again into the saucepan with as much of the liquor in which it was boiled as will cover it, a dozen fried button onions, a little pepper and salt, and an ounce and a half of butter, rolled thickly in flour. Stew gently for an hour. A quarter of an hour before the tongue is taken up, put with it a table-spoonful of strained lemon-juice and a glassful of port. Serve the tongue on a hot dish with the gravy poured over it. Time, four hours. Probable cost, 48. to 6s. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Ox Tongue, Fresh, Roasted.—Soak thf; tongue, and boil it gently for about three hours. Drain it, take olf the skin, trim the root ncath', stick about a dozen cloves into it, and roast before a clear fire, basting it well with good dripping or butter. Serve on a hot dish, and send half a pint of good brown gravy to table with it. If preferred, the tongue may be egged and bread-crumbed before being roasted. Red-currant jelly should be eaten with roasted tongue. Time to roast, half an hour. Probable cost, 4s. to 6s. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Ox Tongue, Fresh, Stewed.—Soak a fresh ox tongue for about an hour. Drain it, and put it into a saucepan with plenty of cold water. Bring it slowly to a boil, then draw the saucepan to the side, and simmer very gently until it is done enough. Take off the skin. Brown a table-spoonful of flour in two ounces of butter; add as much of the liquid in which the tongue was boiled as will make the sauce of the thickness of cream, and put with it a finely-minced onion, a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, half a table-spoonful of bruised capers, two sardines, a little sliced lemon, and salt and cayenne to taste. Simmer the tongue in this sauce for about an hour, place it on a hot dish, boil the sauce up once more with a table-spoonful of vinegar and a glassful of sherry or madeira, pour it over the tongue, and serve immediately. Time, altogether, about four hours. Probable cost, 4s. to 6a. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Ox Tongue, Pickled.—Prepare the tongue in the usual way. Soak and dry it, and put it into a deep earthen pan with two dozen peppercorns, a bunch of basU, and a bunch of thyme. Make a pickle by boiling an ounce of saltpetre, an ounce of salprunella, a pound and a half of bay salt, and a pound of moist sugar in a gallon of water for twenty minutes. Let it get quite cold, then cover the tongue with this, and let it remain for ten days or a fortnight, the duration of the time to de- pend upon the season of the year: it should be longer in winter than in summer. When the tongue is taken out of the pickle it should be rubbed well with a dry cloth, and either cooked at once, or hung up to dry. It is always best when cooked straight out of the pickle. This pickle may be used again and again for beef and tongues, but when it has been used a few weeks, it should be boiled gently with a little additional salt and sugar, and the scum carefully removed. Probable cost, 4s. to 68. Ox Tongue, Potted.—Take the remains of a boiled pickled tongue, and a small quantity of roasted meat or poultry, as tongue potted alone is a little too soft. Cut off the skiii and hard parts. Weigh the meat, mince finely, and pound it in a mortar, with six ounces of fresh butter, a heaped tea-spoonful of powdered mace, a pinch of cayenne, half a tea-spoonful of pounded cloves, and half a nutmeg, grated, to every pound and a half of meat. Mix thoroughly. Press the meat into smaU potting- jars, and cover with clarified butter. Keep in a cool place. Time, one hour to prepare. Probable cost. Is. 6d. for a quarter of a pound. Sufficient for five or six persons. Ox Tongue, Potted Whole (for a picnic or supper) .—Take an ox tongue out of( 490 ) ox OXF picklo and wash it woll. If tho root hm not boon cut away, tako off tho rough parts. Put half a pound of fat bacon at the bottom of a deep round pan just largo enough for tho pur- pose, and then a pound of runip-steak; upon those place the tongue, which has been rolled and bound with tape. Cover it with a cow-hool, boilod luid boned, another slice of stoak and bacon, and season tho whole with a quarter of a tea-spoonful of powdered ginger, a quarter of a tea-spoonful of powdered cloves, two tea- spoonfiils of white popper, and a bay-leaf. Add two onions and a carrot, sliced, a bunch of Bweet herbs, and pour over tho whole a quart of water, two glassf uls of sherry, and half a pint of mild ale. Cover the pan closely, and place it in a moderate oven. When the tongue is sufdciently cooked take it out, put a thin board with a weight upon it over tho meat, and leave it until the foUo^ving day. Turn it out, and glaze neatly before serving. If wished, pai-t of tho tongue can be eaten hot, and the remainder afterwards pressed. Time, three hours and a half to bake the meat. Probable cost, Ua. Sufficient for eighteen or twenty persons. Ox Tongue Toast (a breakfast relish). —Mince two ounces of cold boiled tongue very finely. Mix with it a hard-boiled egg chopped small, and a pinch of cayenne and powdered mace. Dissolve two ounces of fresh butter, add the tongue, &c., and stir all over the fire until the mixture is quite hot, then spread it thickly on a slice of buttered toast, and serve at once. Time, three or four minutes to heat the mix- ture. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for one person. Oxford Bishop.—Rub three oimces of sugar in lumps on the rind of a fresh lemon vmtil all the yellow part is taken off. Put the pieces of sugar into a jug, and strain over them half the lemon-juice. Score the rind of another lemon or of a Seville orange, stick into it half a dozen cloves, and roast it before a slow fire. Put two drachms each of cloves, allspice, cinnamon, ginger, and mace into a saucepan, with half a pint of water, and simmer very gently for half an hour. Pour the liquid, without straining it, upon the roasted lemon, add the flavoured sugar, and a bottle of good port from which part of the spirit has been burnt out. Stir the mixture over the fire for a few minutes, and serve hot, with the spices and lemon in the punch. Pro- bable cost, exclusive of the port, 6d. Sufficient for a pint and a half of punch. Oxford Dumplings or Puddings.— Shred a quarter of a pound of kidney suet rery finely. Add a pinch of salt, two ounces of stale bread-crumbs, two ounces of dried flour, four ounces of picked and dried currants, two table-spoonfuls of moist sugar, a table- spoonfal of minced lemon-rind, and half a nutmeg, grated. Mix the dry ingredients thoroughly. Moisten them to a stiff paste with a little milk and two well-beaten eggs, divide the mixture into dumplings, and fry them in hot fat until they are lightly browned. Servo with wime aauco. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient icT five ijr six. persons. Oxford Grace Cup.—Take the peel of a louKjn, extract the juice, and cut the peel into thi?! hHccs. Put it in a bowl or jug, pour over it a pint and a half of strong /wme-brewed beer and a bottle of shcirry; grate a nutmeg into tho cup; Bwoeton to taste; stir till the sugar is dissolved, and then add three or four slices of bread, toasted browji. Sot it on one (side for two hours before straining ofi'. Oxford John, Mutton.—Cut one pound and a half of very thin collops from a well-kept log of mutton. Free them entirely from skin and sinew, season them with pejjper, salt, and grated nutmeg, and dip them into a mixture composed of two table-spoonfuls of chopped parsley, a tea-spoonful of powdered thyme, and a tea-spoonful of finely-minced shallots. Frj' the seasoned coUops in three ounces of butter, and when they are lightly browned on both sides, cover them with good brown gravy, and add a piece of butter, rolled thickly in flour, and a tea-spoonful of strained lemon-juice. Let them remain on the fire a few minutes until the sauce is on the point of boiling, then turn them on a hot dish, and serve with sippets. If the coUops are allowed to boU. they will prove hard. Time, half an hour. Probable cost. Is. 8d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Oxford John, Mutton (another way).— Melt some butter in a stewpan (say two or three ounces), cut verj'^ thin slices from a leg of mutton into round collops, season these with a mixture of pepper, salt, minced shallot, savoury herbs, and parsley, and a blade of poujided mace. Put the collops into the stew- pan, and keep them stirred or moved round in the pan until done, when, add a breakfast-cup- ful of good meat gravy, the juice of half a small lemon, and an ounce of butter, kneaded into a dessei"t-spoonful of flour; stir, and sinuner five or six minutes, but not longer, or they will become tough. Time, twenty minutes to stew. Oxford Pancakes.—IMix three table- spoonfuls of flour very smoothly with three well-beaten eggs, and haK a pint of now milk. Add a pinch of salt, an ounce and a half of butter, a table-spoonful of sugar, and the eighth of a nutmeg, grated. Fry the pancakes as thin as possible in hot fat. Sift powdered sugar over them when they are on the dish, and send a cut lemon to table with them. These pancakes should be made an hour or two before they are wanted. Time to fry, four or five minutes. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Oxford Pudding.—Wash six ounces of best Carohna rice in two or three waters. Drain it well, and put it into a pudding-cloth, with three ounces of picked currants, or, if preferred, two large apples, pared, core3., and sliced, and a little grated nutmeg. Tie the cloth loosely to give the rice room to swell, and let the pudding boil quickly uniil done enougli. Serve with sweet siiuco. Time to boil, two hours. Probable cist, 4d. Sufficient for five or six persons.( 49i ) OYS Oxford Punch.—Rub tho rind of three fri'sh lemons with half a pound of loaf sugar, in lumps, until all the yellow part is taken off Put the sugar into a large jug with tho thin rind of a Seville orange and a lemon, the strained juice of thi-ee Seville oranges and eight lemons, and a pint of liquid caLf's-foot jelly. Mix these ingredients thoroughly. Pour over them two quarts of boiling water, and sot the jug which contains them on the hob for twenty minutes Strain the mixture into a punch-bowl, and when it is cool, mix with it a bottle of capillaire a pint of brandy, a pint of rum, half a pint of hght ^vine, and a quart of orange shrub. Sufficient for nearly a gallon of punch. Oxford Sausages.—Mince very finely one pound of lean veal, one pound of lean pork, and one poimd of beef suet. Add three tea- spoonfuls of salt, half a tea-spoonful of cayenne, a tea-spoonful of pepper, and half a pound of stale roll, which has been crumbled and soaked in butter for two or thi-ee minutes. Three-parts fill the prepared skins with the mixture, and fry them before serving. If it is preferred that the sausages should be seasoned, add the finely-minced rind of half a lemon, a nutmeg, grated, a table-spoonful of powdered sage, and a small tea-spoonful of lemon thyme, sweet marjoram, and basil. A chopped anchovy is by some persons considered an improvement; but, generally speaking, the sausages are preferred plain. Time to fry, ten or fifteen minutes. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Oxford Sausages, without Skins (Theodore Hook's recipe).—Take a pound and a half of pork from the griskin, freed entirely from skin, a pound and a half of beef suet, and half a pound of lean veal. Mince all very finely, separately at first, and afterwards to- gether. Mix thoroughly, as the excellence of the sausages depends in a great measure upon the mixing. Season with three small tea-spoonfuls of salt, one tea-spoonful of pepper, a quarter of a tea-spoonful of cayenne, and a dessert-spoonful of diied, powdered, and sifted sage, and bind the mixtm-e together w-ith five well-beaten eggs. Press the meat into a stone jar, and keep it in a cool place. It will remain good for two or three days in summer, and nearly a week in winter. When wanted for use, roU the mi.xture into the usual shape, or into balls, on a floiu-ed board, and fry the sau.sages before serving. Time, ten or fifteen minutes to fry. Probable cost. Is. per pound. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Oyster and Fish Pie (see Ksh and Oyster I'ie). Oyster and Lobster Pie {see Lobster and Oyster Pic). Oyster Sauce, Beef Stewed and {see Beef Stowed with Oysters). Oyster Sauce for Fowl [see Fowl, White Oyster Sauce for). Oyster8.--Oy8tor-beds have in past years been HO over-fished, that oysters are at the present time very expensive. As, however, Htspa have bfen tfikr«n l)y Oovommont to ])reserve them for tho future, it is to bo hoped that in a few years they will bo more plentSuL Oysters are imiversally liked, and besides being delicious, are considered wholesome and nourishing for delicate and consumptive persons. When cooked, they appear more frequently as components of other dishes than by themselves, and when served thus, preserved oysters, which may bo obtained of any grocer, will be found an economical and excellent substitute for the fresh fish, though not quite equal to it. According to law, oysters come into season on the 4th of August, and go out at the beginning of May, which justifies the old saying that they are to be eaten whenever there is the letter li in the month. There are several kinds, each large town having its favourite oyster-bank, but " Natives " are generally considered the best. Oysters cannot be too fresh, and when eaten raw, should be swallowed as soon as they are opened, as exposure to the air spoils their flavour {see Oysters, Eating of). They may be preserved alive for some days, but their quality gradually deteriorates. It is said that if a cupful of hot milk is taken by delicate persons immediately after partaking of oysters, it will greatly assist their digestion. Excellent oysters have lately been imported to England from America. Oysters (au Gratin).—Put six ounces of macaroni into a stewpan with three pints of boiling water. Season -with a pinch of salt and two pinches of pepper, and simmer for twenty minutes. Drain the macaroni, and put it back into the saucepan with half a pint of good gravy, and let it stew imtil the macaroni is tender and the gravy absorbed. Turn it out, chop it small, and put it again into the stewpan with a dozen or more of oysters, cut into small pieces, two ounces of grated Parmesan, one ounce of butter, a pinch of cayenne, and as much milk or gravy as will moisten it. Shake the saucepan oyer the fire mtil the cheese is melted, then pile the macaroni high in a dish, sprinkle over it an ounce of grated Parmesan and a dessei-t- spoonful of browned bread-crumbs, pour over half an ounce of claiified butter, and brown the mixture in a gentle oven, or before the fire. Serve very hot. Time, altogether, two hours. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for five or six person s. Oysters, Baked.—Mix three table-spoon- fuls of finely-grated bread-crumbs with half a salt-spoonful of salt, a salt-spoonful of white pepper, and a quarter of a nutmeg, gi-ated. Beard a dozen oysters, dip them in beaten egg, roll them in the seasoned crumbs, put each one in its lower shell, and lay a small piece of butter upon it. Place the oysters in the oxen, or before the fire for a few minutes, until they are quite hot. Before ser\-ing, squeeze a little lemon-juice upon them. Probable cost of oysters, Is. 6d. to 3s. per dozen. Sufficient for one or two persons. 1. S*eak Pie with {se» Beet Steak Pie wth Oysters). Oysters, Boiled—Wash the sliolls earo- fiilly ; tlirow them into a saucepan of boilinff water, and lest them Imil quickly for three otOYS ( 492 ) OYS four minutes, then tako them up, and serve thorn in the shollB, with molted butter in ii turoen. I'robablo cost, Is. Gd. to 3b. per dozen. Oysters, Broiled.—Take a dozen large oysterti, dry them in a soft cloth, and dip th(!in into beaten oyg, and afterwards into linely- t^rated bread-crumbs. Kub the bars of a double wire gridiron with a little butter, place the oystera upon it, and broil them over a clear, but not fierce fire. When one side is done, turn them upon the otlier. Put a small lump of fresh butter upon a hot dish, lay the oysters upon it, sprinkle a little pepper over them, and serve. Time to broil, one or two minutes. Probable cost, Is. Gd. to Ss. per dozen. Suthcicnt for one or two persons. Oysters Broiled in their Shells. — Take a dozen oysters, open them, and leave them in the deep shell. Place a little butter upon each, with a pinch of salt and cayenne, and half a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice. Put the shells on the gridiron, over a clear but not fierce fire, and broil them for three minutes. Serve them neatly arranged on a folded napkin. If preferred, the oysters may be bearded, and warmed for a minute or two in a stewpan, with an ounce of butter and a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, before they are put into the shells, or the shells may be washed, and laid closed upon the gridiron, the deep side to the fire. When the shells open wide, the oysters are done enough. Serve with bread and butter. Probable cost. Is. 6d. to 3s. per dozen. Suffi- cient for one or two persons. Oysters Browned in their own Gravy.—Take a dozen plump, juicy oysters of medium size. As they are opened, care- fiilly pour the gravy into a cup. Beard the oysters, sprinkle a little pepper and salt over them, and dip each one separately into the yolk of an egg, which has been mixed smoothly with a tea-spoonful of flour. Brown them in a saucepan with a little clarified butter, lift them out, mix their gxavy with the butter, and thicken it with half a tea-spoonful of flom-. Simmer gently for two or three minutes, stir in the browned oysters, let them get hot, then serve them on toasted bread in a hot dish. Time, altogether, about a quarter of an hour. Probable cost. Is. Gd. to 3s. per dozen. Suffi- cient for one or two persons. Oysters Calf's Head with {see Calf's Head). Oysters, Cold. — Oysters are never so excellent as when they are eaten tmcooked, if only they are quite fresh, and newly opened. Brown bread and butter is usually served with them, and either lemon-juice or vinegar and pepper; but the true lover of oysters prefers them with notlung but their own gravy. Pro- bable cost, Is. 6d. to 38. per dozen. Oysters, Croquettes of.—Take a dozen plump juicy oysters. Put them in a saucepan over a gentle fire for a minute or two to harden them, then beard them, and cut each one mto six or eight pieces. Mix an ounce of butter smoothly in a stewpan with half an ounce of flour, add the juice of the oysters, a pmch of cavftnne, a tea-spoonful of anchovy sauce, a grate or two of uutfueg, and a quarter of a pint of mitk. Stir these ingredients over the fire until the sauce is smooth and thick, then lift the pan oflt the tire for a minute, add a tea-spoonful of good beef or veal gravy, tlie well-beaUm yolks of two eggs, and a tea-sixjouful of lemon-juice. Stir tlio sauce again over the fire until the eggs are set, tlien add the oysters, let them get quite hot (if this .point is not attended to the cro- quettes will not be good), spread the mixture out upon a pkte, about an inch and a half tliick, and put it aside until quite cold. Strew some finely-grated bread-crumbs on a board. Divide the oyster mixture into equal-sized parts, and roll these to the shape of corks or balls; dip them in the yolk of an egg beaten up with a tea-spoonful of oil and a little salt and pepper; roll them on the bread-crumbs, and fry them in hot fat until they are ciiap, and lightly browned all over. Dry them well before the fire on a cloth placed upon an in- verted sieve, and serve them piled on a napkin, and garnished with fried parsley. Time to fry the croquettes, five to seven minutes. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for five or six persons. Oysters, Curried. — Open two dozen oysters without losing any of their liquor. Put them into a saucepan over the fire for a minute to harden them, then beard them and put them aside. Dissolve two ounces of fresh butter in a stewpan, mix smoothly with it a table- spoonful of curry-powder and a tea-spoonful of dried flour; add a minced onion, and stir gently until the onion is tender, then add the oyster-liquor and a dessert-spoonful of strained lemon-juice. Let the sauce boil, then put in the oysters ; let them simmer for half a minute, stirring them gently all the time, and serve on a hot dish, with a border of rice boiled as for curry. Time, a few minutes. Probable cost of oysters, Is. 6d. to 3s. per dozen. Suffi- cient for three or four persons. Oysters, Curried, Indian.—Opeu and beard four dozen large plump oysters, and be careful to presei"ve the liquor. Mince an onion very finely, and fry it in an ounce of butter until it is quite tender. Stir into it a heaped table-spoonful of curry-powder, add a little more butter, if necessary, and pour in very gradually a quarter of a pint of nicely-seasoned stock or water. "When the liquid boils stir in the meat of half a cocoa-nut, rasped, and a sour apple, finely minced. Simmer gently imtU the apple is dissolved, then thicken the gra^y with a little flour, and season with pepper and salt. Put in the oysters with their liquor and the milk of the cocoa-nut. Let the curry stew for a few minutes, and stir it gently all the time, then add a dessert-spoonful of strained lemon-juice, and when the oysters are done enough, serve on a hot dish, with a border of boiled rice. A small vegetable marrow, finely minced, or a large ripe tomato, chopped small, may be added to the curry, if they are at hand, and will be found an improvement. Time, altogether, about half an hour. Probable cost of oysters, Is. 6d. to 3s. per dozQn. Sufficient for night or ten persons. Oysters, Curried, Indian (another ^y).—Seo Lidian Oysters Curried).OYS ( 493 ) OYS Oysters, DeviUed.—^Vllen the oysters are opeuod (choose largo ones), rotam them and their liquor in the deep shell. Insert cayenne pepper and salt to taste, and put the shells on a gridiron, with a bit of butter on the top of each oyster. If the fire be clear and bright, from three to four min\ites will do them. Send to table on a napkin, with bread and butter as an accompaniment. Probable cost, Is. 6d. to Is. 9d. per dozen. Oysters. Eating of.—The following re- marks on tiiis important subject are by the Rev. J. G. Wood:—"As to such heresies as pepper and vinegar, let them bo banished from the table whilst oysters are upon it. These charming mollusks should always be taken un- mitigated, without losing the delicacy of their flavour, by a mixture with any condiment whatever, except their native juice. Alas! there are few whd know how to appreciate and make use of these natural advantages. Scarcely one man in a thousand knows how to open an oyster, and still less how to eat it. The ordi- nary system which is employed at the oyster- shops is radically false, for aU the juice is lost, and the oyster is left to become dry and insipid upon the flat shell, which efllectually answers as a drain to convey oflE the liquid, which is to the oyster what the 'milk' is to the cocoa- nut. Those who wish to eat oysters as they should be eaten, should act as follows:— Hold the mollusk firmly in a cloth, insert the point of the knife neatly just before the edge of the upper shell, give a quick decided pressure until the point is felt to glide along the polished inner surface of the under shell. Force it sharply to the hinge, give a smart wrench rather towards the right hand, and oS comes the shell. Then pass the knife quickly under the oyster, separate it from its attach- ment, let it fall into the lower shell, floating in its juice, lift it quickly to the hps, and eat it before the delicate aroma has been dissipated into the atmosphere. There is as much differ- ence between an oyster thus opened and eaten, as between champagne frothing and leaping out of the silver-necked bottle, and the same wine after it has been allowed to stand for six hours with the cork removed. There is another method of eating oysters, wherein no knife is required, and not the least skill in opening is needed, the only instrument being a jmir of tongs, and the only requisite being a bright fire. You pick out a glowing spot in the fire, where there are no flames, and no black pieces of coal to dart jets of smoke exactly in the place where they are not wanted. You then insert a row of oysters into the glowing coals, taking care to keep their mouths outward and within an easy grasp of the tongs, and their convexity downwards. Presently a spitting and hissing sound is heard, which gradually increases until the shells begin to open, and the juice is seen boiUng merrily within, the mollusk itself becoming whiter ^nd more opaque as the operation continues. There is no rule for ascertaining the precise point at which the cooking is completed, for every one has his own taste, and must learn by personal experience. A little practice soon makes perfect, and the expert operator will be able to keep up a continual supply as fast as he can manage to eat them. When they are thoroughly cooked they should be taken from the fire, a second batch inserted, and the stiU hissing and spluttering molluscs be eaten ' scorching ' hot. . . . No one who has not eaten oysters dressed in this primitive mode has the least idea of the piquant flavour of which they are capable. Stewed in their own juice, the action of fire only brings out the full flavour, and as the juice is consumed as well as the oyster there is no waste, and no dissipation of the indescribable but potent aroma." Oysters, Forcemeat of, for Boiled Fowls or Turkeys.—Grate four ounces of the crmnb of a stale loaf of bread very finely. Add half a tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea- spoonful of white pepper, half a tea-spoonful of poimded mace, a pinch of cayenne, two ounces of fresh butter, broken into small pieces (or if preferred, four ounces of finely-shred beef-suet, though the forcemeat wiU not then be so deli- cate), the grated rind of half a small lemon, and a table-spoonful of chopped parsley. When these ingredients are thoroughly mixed, stir in a dozen plump oj'^sters, which have been Isearded and cut into small pieces, and bind the prepara- tion together with the yolk of an egg and a little of the oyster liquid. If forcemeat balls are reqmred, the mixture should be pounded in a mortar until reduced to a smooth paste. Oyster-sauce should always be served with oyster-forcemeat. Time, half an hour to pre- pare. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient to stufE a large fowl. Oysters, Forcemeat of (another way). —Open and beard two dozen fresh oysters, and carefully preserve the liquid. Mince them finely, pound them to a smooth paste, and mix with them five ounces of finely-grated bread-crumbs, an ounce of fresh butter, the rind of half a lemon chopped small, a table-spoonf vil of minced pai-sley, a pinch of cayenne, a small tea-spoonful of salt, and half a tea-spoonful of pepper. When well mixed, bind the mixture together with the vmbeaten yolk of an egg and a small quan- tity of the oyster liquid, added very graduaUj-. Time, half an hour to prepare. Probable cost, 3s. 3d. Sufficient to stuff a good-sized turkey. Oysters, Forcemeat of (another way). —See Forcemeat of Oysters. Oysters, Fowl with {see Fowl with Oysters, and also Oysters, Poulets and). Oysters, Fresh, To Distinguish,— The fresher oysters are the better. Their freshness may be known by the force with which the shell closes on the knife when they are opened. If the shell gapes at all, the oyster is stale. Oysters, Fricasseed.—Cut two ounces of lean ham into dice, and put them into a stew- pan with two ounces of fresh butter, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thjTue, a sliced onion, an inch of thin lemon-rind, and two cloves. Place the cover on the pan, and let the contents stoam gently for ten minutes. Pour over them half a pint of stock or gi-avy thickened with aOYS ( 494 ) OTS gpoonful of (lour, and simmer for twenty minutes. Add two dozen oysters, and when they ai-e quite hot, draw the saucepan to the side of the tire for a minute or two to cool, then stir in gradually the yolk of an egf?, beaten up with a table-spoonful of cream. Simmer again for a minute, and serve the oysters on a hot dish, with the siiuce strained and poured over them! A tea-spoonful of lemon-juice may be added or not. Probable cost of oysters, from Is Gd to 3s. per dozen. WuUicient for tlu'ee or four pwrsons Oysters, Pried.—Fi-ied oysters are gene- rally used to garnish iish, either boiled or fried, and large oysters are the best for the purpose. Open tho oysters, and siimner them for two minutes in their-own liquor, diy thorn in a cloth, beard them, and dip them in a frying batter made as follows :—Mix six ounces of flour very smoothly with the yolk of an egg, an ounce of claritied butter, and a quarter of a pint of luke- warm water, beat tho mixture until it is quite smooth, then add a pinch of salt, and let the batter stand in a cool place for a couple of hours. Stir in briskly the weU-whisked whites of two eggs, dip the oysters in separately, drop them into boiling fat, and fry them until they are crisp and brown. Drain them on a cloth, and serve very hot. Time to fry the oysters, seven or eight minutes. Probable cost, Is. 6d. to 38. per dozen. Oysters, Fried (another way). — Open two dozen oysters, and simmer them for two minutes in their own liquor. Dry them in a cloth, beard them, and fry them with two ounces of butter, a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, a tea-spoonful of finely-minced pars- ley, and a tea-spoonful of chopped lemon-rind. When they are nicely browned, drain them on a cloth, and serve on a hot dish with fried potatoes, and toasted sippets round them. Time, six or seven minutes to fry. Probable cost, Is. 6d. to 3s. per dozen. Sufficient for three or four persons. Oyster, Fritters of.—Open a dozen oysters, and simmer them for two minutes in their own liquor. Beard them, and put them aside. Beat two eggs, and mix with them half a table- spoonful of milk. Add a little salt, a quarter of a salt-spoonful of pepper, a quarter of a nutmeg, grated, a quarter of a salt-spoonful of pounded mace, and a quarter of a tea-spoonful of grated lemon-rind. Dip the oysters into this batter, and then into finely-grated bread- crumbs. Fry in hot fat until they are brown and crisp, and use them for garnishing. Time, five or six minutes to fry the oysters. Probable cost, Is. 6d. to 3s. per dozen. Oysters in the Pan. —Mince a small onion finely, and put it into a stcwpan with two ounces of fresh butter, a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, half a toa-spoonf ul of powdered thyme, and a little pepper and salt. Steam until the onion is tender, then add a quarter of a pint of new milk or cream and a dozen fresh oysters. Let these get quite hot, then tum them with the Sfiuco into a buttered baking-dish, strew tinoly-gratod bread-crumbs thicklv over, and put them into a quick oven until tho crumbs are lightly browned. Time, altogether about half un hour. Probable cost of oysters' Is. Gd. to 3s. per dozen. Sufficient for three or four persons. Oysters, Ketchup of.—Take half a pint of fresh oysters, clean them well, carefully re- moving the eye and the gut, and boil them gently with their liquor until all the goodness 18 drawn out of them. Strain them, and put the liquid into a clean saucepan, with an equal quantity of light wine, six anchovies, a tea- spoonful of lemon-juice, a quurtor of an ounce each of pounded cloves and marx-, and a doz(;n peppercorns. Boil a qufuler of an lioui' longer, then put a dozen shallots and the thin rind of a small lemon into a jar, pour over th(;m the hot liquid with tho spices, and when cold bottle the ketchup and resin the corks. This ketchup is for flavom-ing sauces when oysters are out of season. Time, half an hour to boil the oysters. Probable cost of oysters. Is. 6d. to Ss. per dozen. Oysters, Ketchup of (another way).— Take half a pint of freshly-shelled oysters, clean them well, carefully removing the eye and the gut, and pound them in a mortar to a smooth paste. Add half a pint of sherry, a drachm of mace, half a drachm of pepper, and half an ounce of salt, and boil all gently together for twenty minutes. Strain the liquid, and mix with it a tea-spoonful of brandy, then bottle the ketchup, and resin the corks. Probable cost of oysters. Is. 6d. to 38. per dozen. Oysters, Ketchup of (another way).— Pound two dozen large oysters in a mortar. Put them into a stewpan with all their liquor, half a pint of sherry, a quarter of a pound of fine anchovies, and the thin rind of half a lemon. Simmer gently for half an hour, then strain; add half a salt-spoonful of pounded mace and eight peppercorns, boil for a few minutes, and when cold bottle the ketchup and store for use. This ketchup will be found useful to flavour gravies and sauces when fresh oysters cannot be obtained. Oysters too large for eating may be used for ketchup. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. per pint. A dessert-spoonful will flavour half a pint of sauce. Oysters, Loaves of.—Beard one dozen oysters, and put the beards into a saucepan with the oyster liquid, as much thick cream as will cover them, a quarter of an inch of mace, a grate or two of nutmeg, two inches of thin lemon-rind, and half a grain of cayenne. Boil for ten minutes, strain the sauce, and put it back into the saucepan, with the oysters finely minced, a dessert-spoonful of lemon-juice, and a quarter of a pint of thick cream, thickened with a dessert-spoonful of dried flour. Stir the mixture over the fire for a minute, then put it into the loaves, prepared as follows :—Slico the tops off three or tour small Prencii" rolls, scoop out the crumb, and pluuge the rolls into as much hot lard as will cover them entirelj', end let them remain till they are brightly browi ed all over. Drain them weU, fill them with the oyster mixture, and servo in a dish gar- nished with fried bread-crumbs. Time, a few minutes to brown the loaves. Probable cost.OYS OYS ( 495 ) of oysters, Is. 6d. to 3s. per dozen. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Oysters, Marinaded and Fried — Make a batter as follows:—Mix three ounces of flour very smoothly ^vith a well-beaten egg, add a pinch of salt, half an ounce of clarified butter, and one-eighth of a pint of luke- warm water. Open a dozen oysters, put them into a saucepan, cover them with cold water, and bring them slowly to a boil. Take them out, throw them into cold water for a minute, then drain them and place them side by side in a shallow dish, sprinkle a Uttlo salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg over them, squeeze the juice of a large fresh lemon upon them, and let them remain in this marinade for half an hour. Dip them separately into the batter, drop them into boiling fat, and fry until they are crisp and brown. Serve very hot. Time to fry the oysters, six minutes. Probable cost. Is. 6d. to 3s. per dozen. Suffi- cient for one or two persons. Oysters, Mock.—"Wash and scrub well a dozen deep oyster shells. Mince the flesh of a Dutch herring very finely, divide it into twelve parts, and put one part into each of the shells. Place upon it a piece of boiled sweetbread, the size and shape of a small oyster, which has been dipped into egg and seasoned bread-crumbs. Sprinkle bread-crumbs thickly over the mock oysters, lay a piece of butter on each, and bake them in the oven, or put them before the fire for a few minutes until they are lightly browned. Serve very hot. Time, about ten minutes to brown. Probable cost. Is. per dozen. Sufficient for one or two persons. Oysters, Omelet of.—Mince well a dozen fried oysters. Mix with them half a dozen well-beaten eggs; season the mixture with a small pinch of salt, a salt-spoonful of white pepper, and the eighth of a nutmeg, grated, and fry the omelet in the usual way, {see Omelet). Or, boat half a dozen eggs lightly, and fry them in hot fat until they are delicately set. Put three table-spoonfuls of oyster sauce into the centre, fold the omelet over, and serve on a hot dish. Time, five or six minutes to fry the omelet. Sufficient for two or three persons. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Oysters, Patties of.—Oyster patties may be served either hot or cold, and should be sent to table piled high on a napkin. They may bo either baked in patty-pans or made like small vol-au-vents. When patty-pans are used, line the pans with good puff paste, rolled out thin, put a crust of bread in each, lay on the cover, brush the top with beaten egg, and bake in a. quick oven. When the pastry is sufficiently baked remove the covers, take out the bread, fiU the patties with the oyster mixture, lay the covers on again, and serve. If made like small vol-au-vents, roll out some light puff pastry, half an inch thick. Stamp it in rounds with a pastry-cutter, two inches and a half in diameter, press a small cutter an inch and a haK in diameter on the middle of each round, to the depth of a quarter of an inch. This is intended for the lid of the vol-au-vcnt. Place the rounds a buttered tin, and bake them in a quick oven until they are risen and lightly browned; then take thom out, remove the smaller centre piece, scoop out a little of the inside, and fill the empty space with the prepared oysters. Put on the lid and serve. The oysters are prepared as follows:—Beard a dozen oysters, and cut them into small pieces. Put the liquor from the oysters and the beards into a saucepan, with an inch of Icmon-rind, a quarter of an inch of mace, a quarter of a salt-spoonful of grated nutmeg, a small pinch of cayenne, and a pinch of pepper, and boil for seven or eight minutes. Strain the liquid, and thicken it with a dessert- spoonful of flour and haK an ounce of butter; mix with it two table-spoonfuls of thick cream and a dessert-spoonful of lemon-juice, then add the oysters, simmer aU gently together for half a minute, fill the patties, and serve. The ragout should be smooth, thick, and delicately flavoured, and should never be put into the patties until they are baked. Time, about twenty minutes to bake the patties. Probable cost, 6d. each. Sufficient for a dozen patties. Oysters, Patties of (another way).—Open and beard a dozen oysters, and cut them into quarters. Thicken the liquid with a salt- spoonful of flour, add a little cream, season it with a little salt and cayenne, and mix with it a table-spoonful of finely-minced parsley. Let it boil, then put in the oysters, simmer them for about half a minute, fill up the patties, and serve. Time, twenty minutes to bake the patties. Probable cost, 4d. each. Sufficient for eight or ten patties. Oysters, Patties of,with Mushrooms. —Prepare and bake the patties as in the last recipe. Trim, wash, drain, and dry five or six button mushrooms. Cut them into small, pieces, and fry them in half an ounce of fresh butter for four or five minutes. Beard a dozen oysters, thicken the liquor vnth a tea-spoonful of flour, and pour it over the mushrooms, with a table- spoonfid. of veal gravy and a table-spoonful of thick cream. Season with a pinch of salt, a pinch of pepper, a pinch of cayenne, and the eighth of a small nutmeg, grated. Stir in the oj'sters, simmer all gently for about halt' a minute, fill up the patties, and serve. Time, twenty minutes to bake the patties. Probable cost, 6d. each. Sufficient for a dozen patties. Oysters, Pickled. — Put the oysters which are to be pickled in a saucepan with their own liquor, and let them boil gently for ten or twelve minutes. Lift them out, put them into small jars, and cover them. Let the liquid settle, then pour off the clear part, measure it, and put it on to boil, with the same quantity of good vinegar, two blades of mace, a tea- spoonful of peppercorns, and the thin rind of half a small lemon with each pint of vinegar. Boil this pickle for ten minutes, then take it off, and when cold pour it over the oysters, and tie them down carefully, or they will spoil. Pickled oysters will not keep more than a few weeks, and they should be put into small jars, so that the contents of one may be speedily finished after being exposed to the air. They should bo served in a small dish, with a littlo of the pickle strained over them, and a little( 496 ^ OYS OYS finely-nunced parsley sprinkled on the top Brown bread and buttisr may be eaten with them. Probable coat, oysters, Is. 6d. per dozen. Oysters, Pie of (for picnics, luncheons, or Buppors).—Butter the inside of a shallow pio- diali rather thickly, and line the edges witii a good puff-paste. Open and board two dozen fresh oysters, lay them in the dish, season with a little salt and cayenne and half a tea- spoonful of powdered mace, and sprinkle over them three table-spoonfuls of hnely-gratod bread-crumbs. Mix the strained oyster hquor with the same quantity of thick cream and a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice. Poui- this sauce over the oysters, put the cover on the pie, and bake in a moderate oven. A quarter of a pound of the kidney fat of a loin of veal, or a small boiled sweetbread cut into thin slices, is some- times put into the pie with the oysters. Time to bake, half an hour. Probable coat, 4s. 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Oysters, Pillau of.—Wash six ounces of Patna or small-grained rice in several waters, and caref ully pick out the unhusked grains. Drain the rice, and put it into a saucepan with a pint of boiling and rather highly-seasoned gravy. Keep the pan uncovered, stir a little at first, to prevent the rice getting into lumps, and let it boil very quickly until it is quite soft, but un- broken, then throw it into a colander, and let it drain near the fire until it is quite dry. Pile it lightly round a dish, and fill the hollow in the middle with a pint of oyster sauce made according to the directions given further on. Serve very hot. Time, fifteen or twenty minutes to boil the rice. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Oysters, Plaice Filleted and Stewed with, {see Plaice Filleted and Stewed with Oysters). Oysters, Poulets and.—Roast a couple of chickens in the usual way. Open two dozen oysters, and scald them in their own liquid for two minutes. Beard them, and put them aside to cool. Dissolve two ounces of fresh butter in a stewpan, and mix an ounce of flour smoothly with it. Add the oyster liquor, three table-spoonfuls of cream or milk, a. pinch of cayenne, a pinch of salt, and a pinch of white pepper. Stir the sauce gently over the fire until it boils, take it off the fire, add six drops of lemon juice and the oysters, and either pour the sauce over the fowls, or serve it separately in a tureen. Time, twenty minutes to prepare the sauce. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. sufficient for six or eight persons. Oysters, Powder of (for flavouring sauces, &c., when oysters are not in season).— Open a dozen fresh oysters, and pound them thoroughly in a mortar with two drachms of salt, then press them through a hair sieve. Mix with them as much dried flour as will make them into a smooth paste; this will be a little more than two ounces. Roll the mixture out three or four times, and the last time leave it the eighth of an inch thick. Stamp it into small cakes, dredge these with flour, dry them gradually in a cool ovon, and bo very careful that they do not bum. To prevent this ^fl ^'''■"'•'^ '^^^^ t^'^nty minutes. When the cakes are quite dry, crush them to powder, and put tluim into small bottles, cork and seal tliem securely, and store in a dry idace. When sauce is wanted mix three drachms of the powder smoothly with an ounce of butter and six table-spoonfuls of milk Stir tho sauce over a gentle lire until it boils, mwaon it with a pinch of cayenne, add a squeeze of lemon-juice, and serve. Time, four or five hours to dry the cakes. Probable cost of oysters Is. 6d. to 38. per dozen. Allow tlu-ee drachma of jwwder for half a puit of sauce. Oysters, Preserved, How to Cook. —Open the tin, take out tho oysters care- fully, and put them on a liot dish in the oven, so that they may be gradually warmed. Strain the liquor which was with them in tho tin, and put it into a saucepan with the same quantity of milk and a little salt and cayenne, and let it get quite hot, then thicken it with a little flour and butter, and let it boil. Strain it over the oysters, and serve immediately. Send pepper and vinegar to table with this dish. Time, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, 9d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Oysters, Sauce of, Brown.—In making this sauce, allow at least three oysters for each person. Open them very carefully, to preserve every drop of their liquor, then beard them, and if the oysters are large, halve, or even quarter them. Mix two ounces of butter very smoothly with an ounce of flour, add the strained oyster liquor, half a pint of brown gravy, a pinch of cayenne, and a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice. Keep stirring one way until the sauce is quite smooth; let it boil, then put in the oysters, and let them remain in the hot sauce for two or three seconds onl^; they must not be allowed to boil, or they will shrink and turn leathery. Serve the sauce very hot. A tea-spoonful of anchovy will bring out the flavour. Time, twenty minutes. Probable cost, 38. Sufficient for six persons. Oysters, Sauce of. Brown (another way).—^Brown a table-spoonful of flour and a finely-minced shallot in two ounces of fresh butter until they are brightly browned, add a quarter of a pint of good brown stock, a pinch of cayenne, a little pepper and salt, and the oyster liquor, and stir tho sauce until it is smooth and thick. Let it boil, then draw the pan to the side, and add a dessert-spoonful of strained lemon-juice, a table-spoonful of claret, and a dozen oysters, which have been bearded and cut into quarters. When these are warm through, the sauce is ready for serving. Time, twenty minutes. Probable cost, 28. Sufficient for three or four persons. Oysters, Sauce of. Mock.—Cut three anchovies into small pieces, and put them into a stewpan with a quarter of a pint of water, half a blade of mace, half a dozen peppercorns, and two cloves. Simmer very gently imtil the anchovies are dissolved, then strain the liquor, thicken it with a little flour and butter, and mix with it enough milk or cream to make up half a pint. Servo very hot. Or, stir a tea- spoonful of anchovy essenco into half a pint a*OYS OYS ( 497 ) white sauce; season with pepper and nutmog, and serve hot. Time, half an hoiu-. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Oysters, Sauce of, White.—Open a dozen oysters. Do this very carefully, so as to preserve every drop of their liquor; beard and halve or quarter them. Mix an ounce of butter and an ounce of flour smoothly together in a stewpan. Add the oyster liquor, a pinch of cjiyenne, the eighth of a small nutmeg, grated, and as much milk as wiU make the quantity up to thi-ee-quarters of a pint. Stir the whole gently over the fire until the sauce is smooth and thick. Put the oysters into a heated metal strainer, and while in this hold them in boiling water for two or three seconds ; put them in the tureen, pour the sauce over them, add a tea-spoonful of anchovy, and serve. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for three or four persons. Oysters, Sauce of, White (anotherway). —Open and beard a dozen oysters, as in the last recipe. Put the beards into a stewpan with the liquor, a quarter of a pint of white stocK, half a dozen peppercorns, an inch of thin lemon- rind, and a bay-leaf, and let them simmer very gently for a quarter of an hour. Mix an ounce of butter smoothly with an ounce of flour, add the strained Uquor, a pinch of salt and cayenne, a glassful of sherry or madeira, a dessert-spoonful of lemon-juice, and the oysters. When these ingredients are hot through, di-aw the saucepan to the side, and stir in very gxadually the well- beaten yolks of three eggs. Mix tiioroughly, and serve immediately. If the sauce is allowed to boil after the oysters are added, they will be hard and leathery. Pi'obable cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Oysters, Sausages of,—Large stewing oysters are the best for making sausages. Open two dozen oysters, and mince them finely. Mix with them six ounces of grated bread-crumbs, which have been soaked for a few minutes in the oyster liquor, and six ounces of finely-shred beef' suet. Season the mixture with a salt- spoonful of powdered mace, half a salt-spoonful of salt, half a salt-spoonful of pepper, and a pinch of cayenne, and moisten it with the weU-beaten yolks of two eggs. Make up the mixture into small sausages, about three inches long, flour these well, and fry them in hot fat until they are lightly browned. Drain them, and serve piled high on a napkin, and garnished with parsley. This preparation is better for being made two or three hours before it is wanted. Sometimes a small quantity of minced veal is added. Time, seven or eight minutes to fry the sausages. Probable cost, 48. Sufficient for three or four persons. Oysters, Scalloped.—Scalloped oysters ought properly to be served in scallops of silver or earthenware; but when these are not at hand, a small dish will answer the purpose, or the deep shells of the oysters, which have been thoroughly cleansed. Oysters dressed in this way should be small, plump, and juicy; large, coarse oysters would not be at all nice. Open and beard two dozen oysters, and cut each one into two. Dissolve two ounces of butter in a stewpan, mix it smoothly with two ounces of flour, the strained oyster-liquor, and a quarter of a pint of milk or cream. Add half a tea- spoonful of anchovy, a pinch of cayenne, and a grate or two of nutmeg, and stir the sauce over the fire till smooth and thick. Let it cool for a minute, then mix in the well-beaten yolks of tAvo eggs, a table-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley, a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice, and the oysters. Keep stirring over a gentle fire for four or five minutes, then put the mixture in the shells, cover them thickly with finely- grated bread-crumbs, moisten with clarified butter, place them in a Dutch oven before a clear fire, and let them remain until they are equally and lightly browned. Serve very hot. Time, altogether, half an hour. Pro- bable cost of oysters. Is. 6d. to Ss. per dozen. Sufficient for four or five persons. Oysters, Scalloped (another way).— Open and beard two dozen oysters. Put the liquid into a saucepan, with an inch of thin lemon-rind, half a grain of cayenne, and half a blade of mace, and when it boils strain it over the oysters, and let these remain in it until they are quite cold. Mix three ounces of fine bread- crumbs with half a tea-spoonful of grated nut- meg and a little salt and j^epper. Drain the oysters from the liquid, and season them with a little pepper. Butter the scallop-shells, and sprinkle some bread-crumbs over them. FUl them up with alternate layers of oysters, seasoned bread-crumbs, and small pieces of butter; pour in a little of the oyster liquor, and finish with, a thick layer of bread-crumbs, softened with butter. Put the shells into a quick oven, or into a Dutch oven, before a brisk fire, and bake until they are lightly and equally browned. Serve very hot. Time, a quarter of an hour to bake. Probable cost of oysters, Is. 6d. to 3s. per dozen. Sufficient for four or five persons. Oysters, Scalloped (a simple method).— Open and beard a dozen oysters, and wash them in their own liquor. Scrape the deep shells, and cleanse them thoroughly. Put an oyster in each one, season it with salt and pepper, and sprinkle bread-crumbs thickly upon it. Put some little pieces of butter on the top, arrange the shells in a dish, and bake in a quick oven, or in a Dutch oven, before a brisk fire, until they are lightly and equally browned. Serve very hot. Time to bake, about a quarter of an hour. Probable cost of oysters. Is. 6d. to 3s. per dozen. Sufficient for one or two persons. Oysters, Soup of. —Scald two dozen oysters in their own liquor; beard them, out them into halves, and put them into a soup tureen. Place the beards into a stewpan with a pint of white stock or milk, and the oyster liquor; let them boil for a quarter of an hour, then strain the liquid, let it stand a few minutes^ and before using pour it gently away from the sediment which wiU have settled at the bottom of the vessel. Dissolve two ounces of butter in a stewpan, mix two ounces of flour smoothly with it, add the stock in which the beards were boiled, and half a pint of thick cream. Season the soup with a pinch of cayenne a Uttlo grated nutmeg, and a tea-spoonful ofOYS (; OYS anchovy, and stir it over a gontlo firo for a quarter of an hour. Pour it into tho turoon upon tho oystors. and servo iniinodiatoly. If proforrod, milk may l)o usod instead of cream in makinf? this soup. Probable cost, 4s. Gd. Sufficient for four or five persons. Oysters, Soup of (another way).—Open and bciu-d two dozen oysters, cut thorn into halves, and put thorn into a soup tui-een. Boil the beards in a qufu-t of mutton broth for a few minutes, then strain them, throw them aside, and thicken the soup with throe dessert- spoonfuls of arrowroot. Muko it (juito smootli, and boil it quickly for a quarter of an hour. Strain it tlirough a hair-sievo, add the oyster liquor, a little siilt, a pinch of cayenne, and a quarter of a pint of milk, and simmer gently for five minutes. Pour the soup into the tureen upon the oysters, and serve very hot. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Oysters, Soup of, Economical.—Cut half tho meat from a scalded ox-heel into neat pieces about the size of a small oyster. Put them into a stewpan with three pints of good stock, thickened with a little flour and butter. Add a pinch of cayenne and a glassful of sherrj^, and boil gently for two hours, then put in a dozen and a half of bearded oysters and their liquid, simmer five minutes longer, and serve. Probable cost, Ss. Sufficient for five or six persons. {See also Principles of Cookery—Soup). Oysters, Soup of. Rich.—Take three dozen oysters; beard them, and let the beards boU for a few minutes in two pints of fish stock. Pound half the oysters in a mortar with the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, an ounce of fresh butter, a salt-spoonful of salt, a salt- spoonful of white pepper, and a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice. Strain the stock, stir the pounded mixture into it, add the oyster liquor, and sim- mer all together for half an hour. Add a Little more salt and pepper, if necessary, and a pinch of cayenne, together with the rest of the oysters, and the yolks of two unboiled eggs, which have been well beaten. The soup must not boil after the oysters and raw eggs are added: it must be stirred by the side of the fire until it is thick and smooth, and then ponred into a tureen, and served very hot. Time, one hour. Probable cost, os. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Oysters, Stewed. — Beard two dozen freshly-opened oysters, put them into a basin, and squeeze over them the juice of half a lemon. Put the beards and the oyster liquor into a saucepan with half a blade of mace, half a dozen bruised peppercorns, half an inch of lemon-rind, a pinch of cayenne, and a little grated nutmeg. Simmer gently for a quarter of an hour, then strain the liquid, thicken it with an ounce and a half of butter, smoothly mixed with a large tea-spoonful of flour, add a quarter of a pint of cream, and stir tho sauce over a gentle fire until it is smooth and thick. Put in the oysters, and lot them warm through (they must not boil, or they will bo hard and shrunken). Place a slice of toasted bread on a hot dish, pour the oysters and tho gravy upon this, and servo. Probable cost, 48. Sufficient for throe or four personB. Oysters, Stewed, Economical.—Open a dozen oysters, and carefully preserve the liquor. Put a piece of butter tlie size of a small egg into an enam(;lled s,'iucepan, pour the oysters and their liquor upon this, and di'odge a little flour over them. Sciason with a pinch of salt and cayenne, and a little grated nutmeg, and add three table-spoonfuls of cold water. Shake the saucepan over a gentle fire until tho sauce is smooth and thick, but the oysters must not be allowed to boil. Sc-rve on Umst, and pour out the gravy very carefully, so an in leave undisturbed any grit or sediment that may have settled to the bottom. Time, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, 2s. Suffi- cient for one or two persons. Oysters, Sweetbread and.—Take a calf's sweetbread. Soak it in cold water for an hour, boU it in salt and water for ten minutes, and then cut it into pieces about the size of an oyster, and with it two ounces of bacon. Beard a dozen large oysters, and mix them with the meat. Sprinkle over all a little pepper and salt, two table-spoonfuls of chopped parsley, a finely-minced shallot, half a tea-spoonful of powdered thyme, and four ounces of finely- grated bread-crumbs. Place the sweetbread, oysters, and bacon alternately upon small skewers. Fry them in hot butter until they are lightly browned, then remove the skewei-s, and serve the oysters, &c., on a hot dish. Squeeze the juice of a lemon over them, and pour half a pint of good brown gravy upon them. Probable cost, 3s. Sufficient for five or six persons. Oysters, To Keep.—Cover the oj-sters with cold salt and water, allowing six ounces of salt to each gallon of water. When they have lain for twelve hours, drain them, and leave them bare for the same length of time, then put fresh salt and water over them again, and repeat this change every twelve hours until the oysters are wanted for the table. Thej' may be kept alive thus for a week or ten days in moderate weather. When oysters are carefully and tightly packed in barrels directly they are taken from the beds, they wiil keep good for some days without water. A handful of oatmeal is occasionally put into the water which covers them, with the idea of feeding the oysters, but though this improves their appear- ance, it quite spoils their flavour. Oysters, Vol-au-Vent of. —Put half a pound of di-ied and sifted flour into a basin, salt it slightly, and make it into a soft piiste by stirring into it tho yolk of an egg, which has been beaten up with the strained juice of half a lemon and a little cold water. Put the paste on a slab, and lay half a pound of fresh butter in the middle of "it, then roll it out four or five times, and put it in a cold place for an hotir. At the end of that time roll it out again once or t^^^ce, and leave it a little more than an inch thick. Dip a knife into hot water, and cut the paste to the size and shape of the dish on wliich the vol-au-vcnt is to be served. Mark the cover by making an even incision the third of anOYS PAL ( 499 ) inch deep, and an inch from the edge all round, brush it over with yolk of egg, place it on a baking-tin, and bake" it in a hot oven until it is well risen, and lightly browned. Draw it out, and lift olf the cover with the point of a sharp knife, scoop out the soft paste from the inside, and return the vol-au-vent to the oven for a few minutes to dry. When ready for serving, fiU the centre ^vith oysters prepared as follows :— Beard two dozen oysters, and put the beards and the liquor into a saucepan with an inch of lemon-rind, a small pinch of salt, half an inch of nuice, half a grsiin of cayenne, and the tenth part of a nutmeg, grated. Boil quickly for six or eight minutes, then strain the gravy. Mix a table-spoonful of flour smoothly with two ounces of butter. Add a quai-ter of a pint of cream and the oyster liquor, and simmer gently until the sauce is smooth and thick. Put in the oysters, simmer two or thi'ee seconds only, and serve. Time, about half an hour to bake the vol-au-vent; twenty minutes to prepare the oysters. Probable cost, 58. Suf- ficient for four or five persons. Oysters, Wholesomeness of.—"Re- specting the wholesomeness of this well-known shell-fish," says Dr. Spencer Thomson, "much difference of opinion exists among medical men; nutritious, especially when uncooked, they certainly are, but then- digestibility in all probabilitj' depends greatly upon the person by whom they are eaten. Some, whose stomachs generally require much consideration, can eat oysteri, in moderation, with impunity." Dr. Paris, however, condemns them for invalids. Oysters have, though rarely, like other shell- fish, caused symptoms of irritant poisoning. Oysters with Leg of Mutton.—Make half a dozen deep incisions in the thick part of a well-kept leg of mutton, and fill them with a forcemeat made as follows :—Boil a dozen fresh oysters in their own liquor for two minutes, beard them, and mince them, finely with a shallot, a table-spoonful of scalded and chopped parsley-leaves, and the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs. Tie the mutton in a cloth, put it into boiling water, let it boil, then draw it to the side of the fire, and simmer very gently until it is done enough. Serve with oyster sauce. Time to simmer, two and a half to three hours, ac- cording to size. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Probable cost of oysters, Is. 6d. to 3s. per dozen. P Padeia Cake.—Beat two ounces of fresh butter to a cream. Mix with it four ounces of ground rice, four ounces of flour, two ounces of currants, washed, picked, and dried, two ounces of muscatel raisins, chopped small, a small pinch of salt, two ounces of crushed loaf sugar, and a quarter ot a nutmeg, grated. When the dry ingredients are thoroughly blended, make them into a dough, by stirring into them half a pint of luke-wamn milk, in which has been dissolved a salt-spoonful of carbonate of soda, and which has been flavoured by the addition of three or four drops of the essence of almonds. Lino a mould with well-oiled paper, three-parts fill it with the dough, and bake in a moderate oven. Time, about one hour to bake the cake. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for a small mould. Pain d'Ananas {see Pine-apple Pudding, or Pain d'Ananas). Palace Sweetmeats (for Dessert).— Take any quantity of freshly-candied peel or citron, from which the sugar has been carefully removed, and cut it into broad strips. Put these on a fork or silver skewer, and dip them into some liquid barley-sugar, then place them on a dish, which has been well oiled, being careful that the pieces do not touch, and let them remain until cold. These sweetmeats are easily made, and are much liked. They should be stored in a tin box, with white paper between each layer; and when served shoiild be neatly piled on a dish, and garnished with leaves. Probable cost. Is. 2d. per pound. Sufficient, a quarter of a pound for a dish. Palestine Pudding.—Put a quarter of a poimd of biscuit flour into a bowl with a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar, a quarter of a small nutmeg, grated, and a pinch of salt. Add gradually a pint of new milk, and beat the mixture with a wooden spoon, until it is quite smooth and free from lumps, then put it into a saucepan, with two ovmces of fresh butter, and stir it over the fire till it boils and is thick. Pour it out into a shallow dish large enough to con- tain it, and when it is quite cold and stiff, cut it up into small fancy shapes, and fry them in a little butter, until they are lightly browned. Serve neatly arranged on a hot dish, with lemon-sauce poured round them. The sauce may be made as follows:—Put the rind and juice of a fresh lemon into a saucepan, with a quarter of a pint of water and two ounces of loaf sugar, and let them boil untU the sugar is dissolved, and the syrup is clear; strain, and serve. Time, about ten minutes to fry the pudding. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for five or six persons. Palestine Soup. — Take three dozen freshly-dug artichokes, peel them, and throw them into cold water as they are done, or they will become discoloured. Put them into a saucepan with four onions, the outer sticks of a head of celery, and three pints of white stock, and let them simmer gently for an hour. Take out the onions and the celery, and press the artichokes through a fine sieve ; put the puree back into the saucepan, and when it is quite hot stir into it a pint of boiling cream, or if preferred, a mixture of cream and milk, season with salt, pepper; and grated nutmeg, simmer a minute or two, and serve immediately. Send fried bread, cut into small dice, to table on a separate dish. If liked, two bay leaves can be used instead of onions and celery. Palestine Soup (another way). — Peel two dozen freshly-dug Jerusalem artichokes, and slice them into a stewpan, containing three pints of stock, or of the liquid in which a leg of mutton has been boiled. Add four onions four potatoes, a few sticks of celery, two ounces of Ipan ham, and simmer all gently togetherPAN PAN ( 600 ) until the vegetables are soft enough, then press them through a fine sieve, rubbing thoni well with the buck of a wooden spoon, lieturn the pulp and the liquid to tlie saucepan, season it well with salt, and add a little sugar if the arti- chokes wore old. Stir the soup over the fire until it boils ; put in half a pint of boiling milk or cream, and serve immediately. The soup should not boil after the cream is added. Time, an hour and a half. Probable cost, lOd. per pint. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Pan, Bain Marie {see Bain Marie Pan). Panachee Jelly.—Take any quantity of perfectly clciir and transparent jolly, properly sweetened and tlavourcd. Dissolve it, and divide it into two equal portions, and coloui- one of these with three or four drops of prepared cochineal. Soak a mould large enough to contain the whole of the jelly in cold water, then fill it with alternate layers of the clear and the coloured jelly, remembering only to let each layer become perfectly stiff before another is added. If the jelly becomes so firm that it cannot easily be turned out, a napkin may be wrung out of boiling water, and wrapped round the mould for a minute or two, and this will probably be aU that is required. Time, according to the state of the weather. The jelly will of course stiffen more quickly if the mould can be put into ice. Probable cost of calf's-foot jelly, 2s. per pint. Panada.—Panada is a preparation of bread which is used by the French in making force- meats, and is much superior to the grated crumbs ordinarily used in English kitchens. The flavoviring required for the whole of the forcemeat is generally put into the panada, and this flavouring is therefore a matter of con- siderable importance. Panada is made as follows :—Slice the crumb of two French roUs into a basin, and pour over it as much boiling milk or broth as will cover it. Let it soak for half an hour, or until it is quite moist, then press it with a plate to squeeze out the superfluous liquid; afterwards put it into a cloth, and wring it thoroughly. Put an ounce of fresh butter into an enamelled saucepan, with a little pepper and salt, haK a blade of mace, powdered, or a little gi-ated nutmeg, half a tea-spoonful of powdered thjone, two table-spoonfuls of minced parsley, half a dozen chopped mushrooms, and a slice of lean ham, cut into dice ; a bay-leaf may be added or not. Stew these ingredients over the fire for a minute or two, then add the soaked bread and two table-spoonfuls of good white sauce or gravy. Stir the mixture over a gentle fire, until it forms a dry smooth paste and leaves the sides of the saucepan, then mix in the unbeaten yolks of two eggs ; put the preparation between two plates, and when cool it is ready for use. If preferred, instead of mixing the herbs and seasoning with the panada, the gravy or sauce may be simmered with the seasoning, until it is highly flavoured, and then strained over the bread. In making the forcemeat, equal quantities should be taken of whatever moat is to be used, panada, and calf's udder, or butter, and these should be pounded- together in a mortar, until they are thoroughly blended. When udder is used, it should be well boUed with as much water as will cover it, then allowed to lool, trimmed, rubbed through u tine sieve, and added to the forcemeat. TJie ])anada is to be stii n-d over the fire until the mixture leaves the saucepan. Panada (Invalid Cookehy).—Cut the crumb of a penny loaf into thin slices, and put these into a saucepan with as much chicken broth as will soak them. L(;t the panada boil, then add a little sugar and grated lemon-rind, and a glassful of light wine, if approved. Serve immediately. Time, ten minutes. Probable cost, 8d. Suflicient for one person. Panada (Invalid Cookeuv. Another way). —Put a quarter of a pint of water and a glassful of sherry into a saucepan, with a lump of sugar and the very thin rind of a quarter of a lemon, or, if prefened, a little mace. Let these ingre- dients boil, then add three table-spoonfuhj of finely-grated bread-crumbs. Boil quickly for five minutes, and serve. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for one person. Panada, Bread.—SUce the crumb of two French rolls into a basin, and pour over it as much boiling gravy as it will absorb. When quite moist, beat it well with a fork, add whatever seasoning is required, put the bread into a saucepan with an ounce of butter, and stir it over a gentle fire until it is dry and smooth, and leaves the saucepan with the spoon. When cool, it is ready for use. Time, about half an hour to soak the bread. Probable cost, 6d. Panada for Fish {see Fish, Panada for). Panada for Fish Forcemeat.—Put the third part of a pint of water into a moderate- sized saucepan, with an ounce of fresh butter and a pinch of salt. Let it boil, then sprinkle in gradually four ounces of fine flour; stir until the panada is smooth and stiff, then add the unbeaten yolks of three eggs. Spread the panada on a plate, and when cold it is ready for use. Time, about a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, 4d. Panada, Game {see Game Panada). Panada Soup.—Cut the crumb of two French rolls into thin slices, and put them into a saucepan, with as much cold water as wiU cover them. Let them boil for five or six minutes, then press them through a fine sieve, and put them back into the saucepan, with the liquid in which they were boiled, and two ounces of fresh butter which has been beaten to a cream. Season the mixture with a httle salt, pepper, and nutmeg; stir it over the fire again until it boUs, then add the yolks of two eggs, which have been beaten up with a quarter of a pint of new milk or cream, and serve immediately. The soup must not be allowed to boil after the eggs are added. Time, altogether, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, 7d., if milk be used. Sufficient for two persons. Pancakes.—The batter for pancakes is best when made an hour or two before it is wanted for use. It should be quite smooth, and of the consistency of thick custard. The eggsPAN PAN ( 601 ) should tiitit be whisked thoroughly, the yolks and whites separately, the flour should then be added, and when it has been beaten until it is quite free from lumps, the milk or cream should be put in. In making plain pancakes, two table-spoonfuls of flour and a quarter of a pint of milk should be allowed to each egg. If a Lu-gor proportion of eggs be used, less flour will bo required. The fire over which pancakes are fried should be clear and bright, and the frj-ing-pan scrupulously clean and hot. In order to insure this, it is best to melt a little fat in it, then pour it away, wipe the inside quickly roimd with a dry clean rag, put in a little more fat, and afterwards pour in the batter, which should cover the pan entirely, and bo as thin as possible. The edges of the pancake should be kept free from the pan with a knife, and the pan must be shaken lightly, to prevent sticking. When the batter is set, and the under side of the pancake nicely browned, the pan should be taken hold of at the end of the handle, and lightly jerked upwards, so as to turn the pancake completely over, and in a minute or two it will be ready for ser\dng. If any diSiculty is found in throwing up the pan- cake, it may be turned with a slice, or cut in two, and then turned. Pancakes may be dished in various ways, either flat, with sugar sifted between, or rolled and piled on a hot napkin, or placed side by side in a dish. Lemon and sugar are generally sent to table with them, and they should be served as hot as possible; they may be flavoured according to taste. A few chopped apples, or a tea-spoonful of dried currants, is sometimes mixed with the batter, or sprinkled upon it when it is set in the pan, and another thin coating of batter poured over; and pancakes thus made are called apple or currant pancakes. Pancakes are much more easily fried in a small pan than in a large one. Time to fry, five minutes. Probable cost of batter, 8d. per pint. Sufficient for three or four persons. Recipes foi the following pancakes will be found under their respective headings:— American Pancake Balls Apple Pancakes, French Apples with Custard » Plain Cream Rissoles Currant )> Rose- French coloured Ginger J) Scotch Indian >■> Snow Irish »> Stuffed Leipzig » Windsor New England Without Oxford Eggs or Milk Pancakes a la Creme ElCE Pancakes (another way).—Break three eggs in a basin, add a little salt, and beat them well up; put to them four ounces and a half of flour, mix together with milk till the whole is of the consistency of cream. Heat the frying-pan, and for each pancake put in a piece of butter the size of a walnut. Pour in the batter when the butter boils, until the bottom is covered. Fry the pancakes on both sides to a light brown. Serve one by one, or roll them up and send three or four together. Pancakes (a la Creme).—Rub the rind of half a small fresh lemon with thi-eo or four large lumps of sugar until the yellow part is all taken off, then crush the sugar to powder, and mix with it a pinch of powdered cinnamon, a small pinch of salt, and an ounce of dried flour. Make this into a smooth paste with a little cold milk and an ounce of clarified butter, then stir in very gradually half a pint of thick cream, and the well-whisked yolks of four and the whites of two eggs. Melt a quarter of an ounce of butter in a small frying-pan, fry the pancakes very quickly, and serve them as hot as possible. They should be very thin; a second supply of butter wiU not be required for frying. Time, three or four minutes to frj' each pan- cake. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for four or five persons. Pancake Balls.—Dissolve half an ounce of yeast in a little lukewarm milk, and mix it with half a pound of flour, adding as much milk as is necessaiy to make a stiff dough. Set this in a bowl by the side of the fire, cover it with a cloth, and leave it to rise. Beat two ounces of fresh butter to a cream, rub five or six large lumps of sugar upon the rind of a lemon until all the yellow part is taken off, then crush them to powder, and mix them with the butter; add four well-beaten eggs, and knead all thoroughly with the dough. Make the mixture into small balls, insert a little mannalade or jam into the centre of each, close the aperture, and put them in a warm place to rise for a few minutes longer. Fry them in boiling fat until they are lightly browned, drain well, and dish, them on a folded napkin, with powdered sugar sifted over them. Time, about ten minutes to fry the balls. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Pancakes, French.—Make a batter by beating up together three spoonfuls of potato- starch, five raw eggs, some powdered loaf sugar, and a little water. Add enough milk to make it of the consistency of porridge. Butter well the inside of a frying-pan, and place it over a moderate fire. When it is sufficiently hot, pour in a large spoonful of the batter, and shake the pan so as to spread it over the whcJle of its surfaf^e. When the pancake is done enough, thi-ow it on a dish, and sprinkle its surface with crushed loaf sugar, or cover it with jelly. Pancakes, Plain. —Whisk two eggs thoroughly, and pour them into a bowl con- taining four table-spoonfuls of flour. Beat the mixture until it is smooth, and quite free from lumps, then add a pinch of salt, and two-thirds of a pint of new milk. Let the batter stand in a cool place for an hour or two, then fry the pancakes according to the directions given above; half an ounce of dripping will be required for each pancake. Time, five minutes to fry one pancake. Probable cost, 4d. Suffi- cicnt for three or four persons. Pancakes, Rissoles.—Prepare a pint of batter as for plain pancakes, and in making it substitute pepper and salt for sugar and nutmeg. Mince a pound of cold veal or beef very finely, ajid season it with salt, cayenne,( 602 ) PAP PAN nutmog, imd grated lomou-rind. Pry a pancako ill tho usual way, and whon it is Bet, and lightly browned, put half a cupful of tho niincij in tho centre, and cover it by folding over tho ondH and tho sides; leave the pancake in the pan a few minutes longer to heat the moat, and as each rissole is tinishod, place it on an inverted siovo before the lire to drain, until the rest are ready for serving; dish tho rissoles on a hot napkin, and garnish with parsley. Time to fry, eight minutes. Probable cost, Is, 3d. Sufficient for live or six persons. Pancakes, Rose - coloured. — Mix three table-spoonfuls of liour to a smooth paste with a little cold milk. Add a pinch of salt, a table-spoonful of powdered sugar, a little grated nutmeg, half a pint of milk, and four well-whisked eggs. Pai'e the outer skin from a medium-sized beetroot, which has been properly boiled. Cut it into thin slices, and crush it to pulp in a mortar, then stir it into the batter; fry the pancakes in the usual way, roll them neatly, and serve them on a hot dish with white cun-ant jelly, or preserved apricots, round them. Time, six minutes to fry the pancake. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for four or six persons. Pancakes, Scotch.—Mix three table- spoonfuls of iiour to a smooth paste with a little cold milk. Add a pinch of salt, the well- beaten yolks of three eggs, two drops of lemon, and two drops of ratafia flavouring, a tea-spoon- ful of sugar, and half a pint of new milk, or cream, if obtainable. Leave the batter in a cool place until it is wanted for use, then at the last moment stir in briskly the whites of the eggs, which have been beaten to a firm froth. Fry the pancakes in the usual way, but instead of turning them, brown the upper part with a salamander, or red-hot fire-shovel. When the pancakes are done, spread quickly over them a little jam or marmalade, roll them up, and then serve them on a hot dish, with powdered sugar sifted over them. If liked, half a dozen ratafias, or three macai-oons, may be crushed to powder, and stirred into the batter. Time to fiy the pancakes, five minutes. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Pancakes, Snow.—Freshly-fallen snow may be used instead of eggs in making batter for pancakes. Care must of course be taken that the snow is as pure as possible. The batter should be made rather thick, and the snow mixed with each pancake just before it is put into the pan. As a general rule, it may be calculated that two table-spoonfuls of snow will be equal to one egg. Pancakes, Soup of (a German recipe). —Fry a couple of plain pancakes in the usual way, and be careful to put no more fat into the pan with them than is required to prevent them sticking. Drain them on an inverted sieve, or press them between two sheets of blotting-paper, to free them from grease, and cut them into narrow strips, about an mch long, or if preferred into small diamonds or mpiarna. Throw them into a sjuictjpan contfun- in.o: two pints of dear brown gravy soup, boiling hot; let them boil quickly for a minute or two, and servo. Time, ton minutes to fry tho pancakes. l*r(jbablo cost of pancakes, 4d. Sufficient for four or live persons. Pancakes, Stuffed.—Make a pint of batter, accorduig to tlie directions giv(!n for plain pancakes. Fry some tliin pancakes, and as each one sets, and becomes coloured, spread over it a layer of good veal forcemeat, then roll it rath(!r lightly, and ky it on a dish before the fire until the batter is finished. Cut the rolls into slices an inch thick, lay them on a buttered dish, and pour over them as much boiling gravy as will cover them. Grate a little nutmeg over before serving. If preferred, the stuft'ed slices of pancake may be egged, bread-crumbed, and fried again to a light brown, instead of being served with the gravy. Or they may be placed side by side in a buttered dish, some custard poured over there, and baked in a moderate oven until the custard sets. Time to fry the pancake, five minutes. Probable cost. Is., exclusive of tho gravy. Sufficient for four or five persons. Pancakes, Windsor.- Mix four table- spoonfuls of flour very smoothly with a little cold milk. Add a pinch of salt, haK a small nutmeg, grated, six well-beaten eggs, six ounces of clarified butter, and a pint of new milk, or cream, if the latter can be had. Beat the mix- ture thoroughly, and set it in a cool place until wanted for use. No butter or lard will bo reqvured in frying these pancakes. Time to fry, five minutes. Probable cost, "when made with milk. Is. 3d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Pancakes, without Eggs or Milk. —Mix two table-spoonfuls of flour with a small pinch of salt, two or three grates of nutmeg, and a dessert-spoonful of moist sugar. Make a smooth batter, by mixing with the flour, &c., very gradually, half a pint of mild ale, and beat it fully ten minutes. Fry the pancakes in the usual way, and serve them with moist sugar sprinlded between them. Time, ten minutes to fry each pancake. Probable cost, about 4d. Sufficient for two or three persons. Pankail, Soup Maigre.—Shred a pound of cabbages, savoys, or bunch greens very finely, and throw them into a quart of boiling water, which has been thickened with oatmeal, and seasoned with pepper and salt. Add two ounces of butter or good beef dripping, and simmer gently for an hour and a half. Or, partially boil and mash the greens, boil them for half an hour -with a quart of good stock or liquor in which meat has been boiled, and thicken the soup with powdered biscuit or finely- grated bread-crumbs. Probable cost, 8d. per quart. Sufficient for four or six persons. Pap aW.—This fruit is the produce of a bran(>hless tree found in the East and \\ est Indies, is about the size of an ordinary melon, and is not unlike a gourd in shivytc. It is more wholesome than palatable, but is often eaten both raw and cooked. Tho usual Umo. for gath(!ring it is when the fruit is half-grown. PapiUote Sauce, for Veal or Mut- ton Cutlets (a l.i MainUu-.on). -Shred haUPAR ( 603 ) an ounce of fat bacon into a stewpan with two small onions, finoly minced. Fry them gently for foiu- minutes, then add haK a pint of thick brown sauce, a little pepper and salt, a table- epoonful of chopped mushrooms, or failing those, a table-spoonful of ketchup, a table- spoonful of finely-minced parsley, and a lump of sugar. Boil the sauce for five minutes. It may be served either hot or cold. If the flavour be liked, the saucepan can be rubbed briskly Avith a clove of garlic before the other ingredients are put in. Time, a quarter of an hour to prepare. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for five or six persons. Paradise, Grains of, or Cardamom Seeds. — Cardamoms are the capsules of a species of plant of the natural order scitaminea;. The seeds form an aromatic pungent spice, weaker than pepper, and with a peculiar but pleasant taste. They are used in this country in confectionery, but not to a very great extent. In Asia, however, they are a favourite condi- ment ; and in the north of Germany they are employed in almost every household to flavour pastry. Several kinds of cardamoms occur in commerce, but none are equal to what are known as Malabar cardamoms, grown in the mountains of Malabar and Canara. Paradise Pudding.—Shred foiu- ounces of beef suet very finely, and mix with it an equal weight of finely-grated bread-crmnbs, half a salt-spoonful of salt, four table-spoonfuls of moist sugar, half a salt-spoonful of grated nutmeg, the grated rind and strained juice of a fresh lemon or a bitter orange, and six large apples, chopped small. Mix the dry ingredients thoroughly, then add three well-whisked eggs and a table-spoonful of brandy. Put the mix- ture into a buttered mould, which it will quite fill, tie a floured cloth over it, plunge it into boiling water, and let it boil quickly until it is done enough. Serve the pudding on a hot dish, with a sauce made as foUowS; poured over it:— Put three table-spoonfuls of apple-jelly into an enamelled saucepan with two table-spoonfuls of bi-andy. Stir them gently until the jelly is dissolved, then pour in gradually a quarter of a pint of thick cream, and stu- the sauce briskly until it is on the point of boiling. It is then ready for serving. If prefen-ed, this pudding may be baked instead of boiled. Time to boil the pudding, three hours; to bake, one hour and a half. Probable cost. Is. Sufficient for five or six persons. Paris Loaves.—^^^lisk the whites of three eggs to a solid froth, and stir into it a quarter of a pound of powdered and sifted loaf sugar. Take a pound of finger-biscuits, divide them in twos, spread a little jam between them, and press them together. Brush them over lightly with the sugar icing, then put what remains of it into a paper cornet, squeeze the top to make the contents ooze out of the hole at the end, and in this way ornament the loaves in any way that fancy dictates. Shake a little sugar over them, and dry in a cool oven until they are lightly browned. The appearance of the loavciH will hr- iinprovod if, just Ttfifon; th(\y arn »t!i-vcd, a little Itriglit-colouml jelly of difVi r. ni colours is laid between the ornamental lines. Time, a few minutes to dry the icing. Pro- bable cost, 'is. jjer pound. Paris Pudding.—Put a pint of new milk into a saucepan with three small table-spoonfuls of ground rice; stir it over the fire until it thickens, and when it is nearly cold, mix with it the yolks of four, and the whites of two eggs, together Avith three ounces of finely-shred beef suet, three ounces of chopped apples, weighed after they. are peeled and cored, two table- spoonfuls of , chopped raisins, two table- spoonfuls of powdered rusks or finely-grated bread-cnmibs, and a table-spoonful of good jam. Blanch and pound twelve sweet almonds and two bitter ones, mix with them a quarter of a poimd of powdered sugar, four ounces of minced candied peel, a grated nutmeg, and two or three drops of vanilla essence. Add the flavourings to the rest of the ingredients, and beat all together for some minutes. A table- spoonful of brandy may be added or not; pour the mixture into a well oiled mould, which it will quite fill, cover it with a sheet of oiled paper, tie it in a cloth, put into boiling water, and keep it boiling quickly for two hours, Paris Sauce, for Sweet Puddings. —Put a glassful of sherry into an enamelled saucepan, with a large table-spoonful of powdered sugar and the well-beaten yolks of two eggs. Stir the mixture until it begins to thicken, then add very gradually three table- spoonfuls of thick cream; the sauce must not boU after the cream is added. Time, three or four minutes. Probable cost, exclusive of the sherry, 6d. Sufficient for four persons. Parisienne, Cream a la {see Cream a la Parisienne). Parkin, Gingerbread {see Gingerbread Parkin). Parliament or "Parley" Cakes.— Put two ounces of fresh butter into an caitlien jar with one pound of best treacle, and place the jar near the fire until the butter is dissolved. Pour the warmed liquid upon one pound of flour, add a table-spoonful of powdered ginger, a piece of pearlash the size of a nut, and a little alimi; beat the mixture until it is smooth, then put it in a cool place until the next day. RoU it out thin, cut it into oblong squares, and bake these on a buttered tin in a moderate oven. Time to bake, fi-om twenty miniites to half an hour. Probable cost, about 8d. for this quantity. Parliament Pudding. — ^Hiisk the yolks of seven and the whites of four eggs weU, first separately and afterwards together. Boil half a pound of loaf sugar with a pint of water, skim it carefully. When it is a clear 8\-rup, pour it over the eggs, add the strained juice of a large lemon, and the yellow part of half of it, which has been rubbed'upon sugar and powdered. Beat the mixture for several minutes, and whilst boating shako in gradually half a pound of dried flour. Take care there ar(> nf) lunii)H in ihv. l.>attcr. Pour it into a liutterod tin, and bake it in a well-hoati>d ovi u( 504 ) till it is nii oly Hot, my for about throe-qnartorH oi un hour. Prolmblo cost, Is. 2d. Builiciont lor nve or six persons. Parmesan and Cauliflower.—lioil n moderato-sizod caulillowor iu tho usual way and di-ain it well. Put a largo tablo-spounful ot grated rarniosan into a stowpan, with a quarter of a pint of good white sauce, and lot them simmer together for four or five minutes, then put in tho di-ained cauliflower, and let it boil very gently for ten minutes. Put tho vegetable into a hot dish, grate another table- spoonful of Parmesan over it, brown it with a atilamander, or put in the Dutch oven for a uunute or two, pour the sauce over it, and serve. Probable cost, Is. Suflicicnt for thi-eo or four persons. Parmesan and Soup.—Grated Parmesan should be served with macaroni and all other soups made with Italian pastes. Parmesan Cheese, British.—Put a piece of rennet into some fi'osh milk, about 76 dog. in temperatui-e. Let it stand an hour or two, then put it over a gentle fire, and let it heat very gradually until the curd separates. Throw in half a cupful of cold water to assist the separation, lift out the curd, drain the liquid entirely from it, and press in the usual way. Rub it every day for twenty-one days vnth. a little salt, and be careful that it dries gradually. The milk should be heated until the curd separates. Parmesan Cheese, Cauliflowers with (see Cauliflowers). Parmesan Cheese, Cod and {see Cod and Parmesan Cheese). Parmesan Cheese, Lamb Chops Pried with {see Lamb,Chops Fried with Parm-esan Cheese). Parmesan Cheese, Nouilles with {see Nouilles with Parmesan or au Grratin). Parmesan Cheese, Potatoes Sliced with {see Potatoes Sliced with Parmesan Cheese). Parmesan Cheese Straws.—Beat three ounces of fresh butter to a cream. Mix with it three ounces of diied flour, three ounces of grated Parmesan, and half a salt-spoonful of cayenne. EoU the paste out thin; cut it into strips three inches long, and the third of an inch broad, and bake them on a buttered tin in a quick oven. Serve them immediately, piled high on a napkin. Time, a few minutes to bake. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for two or three persons. (See also Cheese Straws.) Parmesan Fondue.—Mix an ounce of flour to a smooth paste with, a little cold water, and stir into it half a pint of boiling milk. Season the mixture with a little pepper and salt, and half a tea-spoonful of made mustard, and add one ounce of fresh butter and three ounces of grated Parmesan; then put it aside to cool. Have ready a well-oiled mould, sufficiently large to allow for rising. Beat the yolks of three eggs, and stir them into the batter, and at the last moment add the whitf^s of the eggs, which have been whisked to a solid froth. Bako in a quick oven. When set, the fondue is done enough, and must be served immediately. Time, fron. half to tliree-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, lOd. {dee aluu Cheese Fondue.) Parmesan Pufi's.-Put four ounces oi iinely-gratod bread-crumbs, four ounces of grated ] armosan, two ounces of fresh butter and a iittlu salt and cayenne into a mortar, and pound them thoroughly. Bind the mixture together with a well-beaten egg, and make it up into baUs, tho size of a large walnut, ligg and bread-crumb these, and fry them untU they an lightly browned. The fat must not be quiK; boiling when tho pufls are put in, or they wiU be too highly coloured. Drain them, and serve very hot, piled on a napkin. Time, four or five minutes to fry the pufts. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for five or six persons. Parr.—This is thb name applied to salmon until the close of their second year, when they lose their dark lateral bars by the super-addition of a silvery pigment (see Salmon). Parsley.—The foliage of parsley is of use for flavoui-ing soups, &c., besides which it is nutritious and stimulating, a quahty which it seems to derive from an essential oil present in every part of the plant. Among the varieties of parsley are:—Plain-leaved parsley, which used to be the only sort employed in cook- ing. It is not much cultivated now, how- ever, the curled varieties being much more elegant; besides—and this is a good reason for avoiding it—it bears a marked resem- blance to a poisonous British weed, the bitter hemlock, or fool's parsley. It is well to know that the leaves of fool's parsley are of a darker hue than the genuine article, and that when bruised the)'- emit a very unpleasant odour. When in flower, fool's parsley may also be dis- tiuguished by what is popularly termed its head. Curled-leaf parsley.—This, both for flavour and appearance as a garnish, is the best sort of parsley. It cannot, too, be mistaken for hemlock, being quite unlike that plant. Parsley is a great favourite vrith sheep, hares, and rabbits, and is said to give their flesh a fine flavour. Naples parsley, or celery-parsley, is used in place of celery. It is a variety between parsley and celery. Hamburg parsley is cultivated for its roots. These grow as large as small parsnips. When boiled they are very tender, and agreeable to the taste, besides being very wholesome. They are used in soup or broth, or eaten with meat. The cultivation of parsley is extremely simple; an- annual sowing is generally made. Parsley and Liver Sauce {sec Liver and Parsley Sauce). Parsley, Cairs Brains and {sec Calf's Brains and Parsley). Parsley, Crisp.—Crisp parsley is generally used for garnishing dishes. Pick and wash a handful of young parsley. Shake it in a cloth to dry it thoroughly, and spread it on a sheet of clean paper in a Dutch oven before the fire. Turn th"^ bunches frequently until tlioy are quite crisp. Parsley is much more easily crisped than fried. Time, six or seven minutes to crisp. Probable cost, Id.( 606 ) PAB Parsley, Fried (for garnishing).—Wash and dry tho parsley thoroughly, by swinging it backwards and forwards in a cloth. Put it into hot fat, and let it remain until it is crisp ; take it out immediately, and di-ain it before the fire. If the parsley is "allowed to remain in the fat one moment after it is crisp it will be ,;poilt. Parsley is best fried in a frying-basket. If this is not at hand, tho parsley should bo taken out of tho fat with a slice. Parsley Fritters, Bread and {see Bread and Parsley Fritters). Parsley Juice, for Colouring Sauces, &C.—Pick a quantity of young parsley-leaves from the stalks, wash and dry them well, and pound them in a mortar. Press the juice from them into a jar, which place in a saucepan of boiling water. Let it simmer gently until it is warm, when it is ready for use. The juice of spinach-leaves is used as well as that of parsley for colouring. It is prepared in the same way. Time, three or four minutes to simmer the juice. Parsley Sauce.—The excellence of this sauce depends greatly upon the parsley-leaves being chopped very small. Take a handful of fi-esh parsley, if procurable. "Wash it, pick off the leaves, and boil them quickly in salt and water for three minutes. Drain them well, and mince them as finely as possible, then stir them into half a pint of well-made melted butter or white sauce, and serve immediately. If pre- ferred, the parsley may be boiled for ten minutes, then chopped small, bruised, put into a tureen, and the sauce poured over it. A little cold butter, broken into small pieces, should then be stirred into the hot sauce until it is melted, and the sauce served immediately. It is always best to send parsley sauce to table in a tureen instead of pouring it over the meat. Time, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, 4d. {See also Maitre d'Hotel Sauce.) Parsley Sauce, Imitation. — When parsley cannot be procured, a good imitation of it may be made by t}nng a tea-spoonful of parsley-seed in a little muslin, and boiling it with the water of which the sauce is to be made tiU it is nicely flavoured. A few spinach- leaves boiled, chopped, and stirred into the sauce wiU give tho appearance of parsley, as the seed wiU impart its flavour. Time, a few minutes to boil the seed. Parsley (when and how to Preserve it for Winter use),—Gather the sprigs of parsley in May, June, and July. Wash them well, and throw them into a saucepan of boiling water sHghtly salted. Let them boil for two minutes, then take them out, drain and dry them before the fire as quickly as possible, put them in a tin box, and store them in a dry place. Before using the parsley, soak it in warm water for a few minutes to freshen it. Parsnip.—This plant is a native of Britain, It contains a considerable quantity of sugar, and is disliked by some on accotmt of its pecu- liarly sweet taHt(!. It is a frequent accompani- niout to salt fish during Lent. In .Scotland parsnips and potatoes are beaten together, butter being added; it is a dish of which children are pai-ticularly fond. The parsnip is less digestible than the potato, on account of the woody fibre which it contains. The potato is superior to it in possessing more sugar, starch, and nutritious matter. On the introduction, therefore, of potatoes into the Old World, parsnips fell rather into the background. The common parsnip is a cultivated variety of the wild parsnip. It contains less water and more nutritive matter, as well as more woody fibre and less sugar, than either turnips or carrots. One hundred parts of parsnips contain :— Water 82-039 Albumen and casein . . . 1-215 Sugar 2-882 Starch 3-507 Fat . . . . : . 0-546 Gum 0-748 Woody fibre 8-022 Mineral matter . . . . 1-041 Or, Water ..... 82-0 Flesh and force producers . . 1-2 Force producers . . . . 15-8 Mineral matter . . . . 1.0 The parsnip is chiefly used in winter. It is improved rather than the reverse by frost; but is apt to become rusti/ if allowed to remain too long in the ground. After it has begun to grow again in spring it exhibits acrid qualities. The root of the parsnip is in demand in the North of Ireland for making a fermented liquor, with yeast and hops, and both in Great Britain and Ii-eland for making parsnip wine {see Parsnip Wine), which is held to resemble malmsey wine. Parsnips may be dressed in the same way as carrots, which they very much resemble. When boiled they are generally served with boiled meat, or boiled salt fish, or when fried, with roast mutton. If young, they require only to be washed and scraped before they are boiled, all blemishes being of course removed. If old and large, the skin must be pared off and the roots cut into quarters. Carrots and parsnips are often sent to table together. It should be remembered that parsnips are more quickly boiled than carrots. Parsnip Cake.—Boil two or three parsnips imtil they are tender enough to mash, then press them through a colander with the back of a wooden spoon, and carefully remove any fibrous stringy pieces there may be. Mix a tea-cupful of the mashed parsnip with a quart of hot milk, add a tea-spoonful of salt, four ounces of fresh butter, half a pint of yeast, and enough flour to make a stiff batter. Put the bowl which contains the mixture in a warm place, cover it with a cloth, and leave it to rise. When it has risen to twice its original size, knead some more flour into it, and let it rise again; make it into small round cakes a quarter of an inch thick, and place these on buttered tins. Let them stand before the fire a few minutes, and bake them in a hot oven. These cjikes should be eaten hot. They do not taste of the parsnips. Time, some hours to rise; about twenty minutes to bake. I'robable cost]( 606 ) PAH Is. for tiiia quantity. Sufficient for eix. or eight porsoua. Parpnip Fritters.—Boil four good-dizod parsnips in sultwl wiitor until quito tundor. Drain tliom, boat tlieni to u pulp, and then squoozo tho -wator from tlium us much as pos- aiblo. Bind them togothor by mixing smoothly ■with thom an egg and a dossort-spoonful of flour. Make thom into oval cakus with a spoon, and fry in hot di-ipping until they are lightly browned on both sides. Drain them on an inverted sieve, and serve neatly piled on a hot napkin. Time to boil the parsnips, an hom- er more; to fry them, a few minutes. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Parsnip Pudding.—Wash, scrape, and boil four or five largo parsnips, mash thom, and press them thi'ough a colander. Stir in with them a little grated nutmeg, or any other flavouring, one oimce of fresh butter, and four well-beaten eggs, together with two table- spoonfuls of brandy, if approved. Butter a pie-dish, pour in the mixture, and strew finely- grated bread-crumbs thickly over; divide one otrnce of butter into small pieces, and place these here and there upon the pudding. Bake in a moderate oven, and serve %vith sweet sauce. This pudding may be boiled instead of baked. When this is done, the mould into which the mixture is put should be thickly lined with finely-grated bread-crumbs before the pudding is put in. Time, about an hour and a half to "bake ; an hour and a quarter to boil. Probable cost. Is., exclusive of the brandy. Sufficient for five or six persons. Parsnip Soup.—Put half a dozen sliced parsnips into a stewpan, with two onions, half a dozen sticks of celery, and two quarts of good light-coloured stock. Stew the vegetables until they are tender, then drain them, press them through a coarse sieve, and return the puree to the soup. Let it boil, flavour with a little salt and pepper, or cayenne, and serve very hot. A little boiling milk may be added if liked. The excessive sweetness of parsnip soup may be corrected by the addition of a little tomato, or a table-spoonful of chilli vinegar. Time, about two hours to stew the vegetables. Probable cost, lOd. per quart. Sufficient for five or six persons. Parsnip Wine.—This beverage is highly spoken of by those who are accustomed to home-made wines. Clean and quarter the roots, carefully remove any spongy or decayed portions from thom, and cut them into pieces about four inches long. After they are thus prepared, weigh them, and boil them, allowing four or five poiinds of the roots to each gallon of water. When they are tender, without being pulpy, leave the lid o£E the copper for a short time, to allow the strong aromatic odour which will arise to escape, then strain the liquid through a hair sieve into a tub, and be careful in doing so not to bruise the roots. Add immediately haK an oimce of powdered white argol to eacb gallon of -svme, and when it has been stirred a few minutes, introduce three pounds of loaf sugar, and stir again until the latter ia dissolved. Leave the liquid uncovered until it is almost cold, that is, until it ia reduced to a temperature of eighty-five degrees. Cut a thick round of bread from a half-quartern loaf, toast it, and moisten it with fresh yeast (two table-spoonfuls will be sufficient for six gallons of wine) ; put this into tho Uquid, cover tho vessel which contains it with a flannel, and stir it every day until tho fermentation sub- sides. Tho vessel should be kept in a room or cellar where from fifty to fifty-five degrees may bo kept up, and the yeast should be skimmed oif as it forms. In ten days or a fortnight the wine may be turned into the cask. If a sweet wine is wanted the barrel should be filled to tha bung, and left for a few days; then as it overflows it should be tilled up with a small quantity of the liquid which has been preserved for the purpose. When it is quiet, the hole may be covered with a piece of brown paper, and if that remains immoved for a week the cask may be loosely bunged down, and in a day or two, when the " fretting" is quite over, made tight. This wine may be racked off in six months, but should not be bottled for at least a year. When a dry wine is wanted, leave the hquid in the open vessel until aU the beer yeast has risen and been skimmed off, then put it into the cask, and leave an inch or two of space in the barrel; frequently stir in the yeasty froth, and to prevent the liquor escaping cover it with a slate. Skim the liquor thoroughly before securing it, and be careful not to fill up the cask imtil the wine is quite tranquil. Time to ferment the liquid, ten or fourteen days, until the fermentation subsides. Probable cost, Is. lOd. per gallon. Parsnip Wine, A Simple Way of Making.—Take eighteen pounds of parsnips, and ten gallons of water. Boil the parsnips in the water till they are qxiite soft, then strain and squeeze out the liquor, and to every gallon add three pounds of liunp sugar. Boil for three-quarters of an hour, and when cool, ferment with a little yeast on a toast. Let the liquid stand ten days in a tub, stirring every day. At the end of that time put it into a cask. The parsnip wine will be fit for bottling in six or seven months. Parsnips, Boiled.—Wash and scrape the parsnips, and carefully remove any blemishes there may be about them. Cut them into quarters, and throw them into a saucepan of boiling water, slightly salted. Let them boil quickly, until they are sufficiently tender for a fork or skewer to pierce them easily, then take them up, drain them, and send them to table as quickly as possible. The water in which parsnips are boiled should be carefully skimmed two or three times after the roots are put in. Time, from half an hour to an hour and a half, according to the age and size of the parsnips. Probable cost, Ijd. each. Sufficient, one large parsnip for two persons. Parsnips, Boiled, Cold.—Cold parsnips are very good when eaten with cold meat. To warm them up, put them into an earthen jar, cover closelv. and place the jar in a saucepan of boiling water, which must be kept boilmg for about twenty minutes; the parsnips mayPAR ( 507 ) then be served, and will be almost as good as when first di-essed. Parsnips Browned under Roast ]|^0a,t. — Boil the parsnips imtil tender, ac- cording to tho directions given above. Take them up, drain well, sprinkle a little salt and pepper over them, put them in the dripping-pan before the fire under the joint they are to accompany, and let them remain until they are nicely browned. Send them to table in a dish by themselves, with two or three round the meat as a garnish. Time, about a quarter of an horn- to brown the parsnips. Probable cost, lid. each. Sufficient, one large parsnip for two persons. Parsnips, Pried.—Boil four or five large parsnips in salted water until they are tender, but unbroken. Drain them well, and cut them either into rounds or long slices, a quarter of an inch thick. Dip them into frying batter, and fry them in hot lard or dripping imtil they are lightly browned on both sides. Drain well, and serve verj' hot, as an accompani- ment to roasted joints or fowls. The batter may be made as follows: — Break an ounce of fresh butter into small pieces, and pour over it about two table-spoonfuls of boihng water, stir imtil it is dissolved, then add a third of a pint of cold water and a little salt and pepper, and mix in, very gradually, six ounces of fine flour. Just before the batter is used, add the white of an egg beaten to a firm froth. Time, one hour or more to boil the parsnips; a few minutes to fry the rounds. Probable cost, 9d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Parsnips, Mashed. — Scrape and boil foul- or five parsnips in salted water until quite tender, then drain them, mash them, and press them through a colander. Put them into a stewpan, with two or thi-ee table-spoonfuls of cream; failing this, of milk, thickened with a small tea-spoonful of flour and a little butter. Stir the parsnips over the fire until the liquid is absorbed and they are quite hot; then turn them into a tureen, and serve immediately. Time to boil, from three-quarters of an hour to an hour and a half, according to age and size. Probable cost, 9d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Parsnips, Stewed.—Boil two moderate- sized parsnips until tender, then drain, and cut them in slices, about half an inch thick and three inches long. Make a little good white sauce with two ounces of butter, a table- spoonful of flour, a table-spoonful of stock, the third part of a pint of new milk (or cream, if obtainable), and a little salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Stir this sauce over the fire until it is smooth and thick, put in the sliced parsnips, simmer for a few minutes, and serve. Time, five or six minutes to simmer the parsnips in the sauce. Probable cost, 8d., if the sauce be made with milk. Sufficient for four or five persons. Parson's Pudding.—Line a pie-dish with puflE paste, place in it a layer of any jam or jelly, cover this with bread and butter, withoi7+ cruat, and pour over it a quart of milk, in which four eggs and a quarter of a pound of ground rice have been mixed and well sweetened. Bake in a quick oven. Time, over an hour. Probable cost. Is. 8d. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Partridges.—Partridges, like other game, should be hung as long as it is safe to keep them. They should be chosen young, as an old bird is comparatively worthless. They are in season from the Ist of September to the be- ginning of February. Partridges when young covey together, and thus the sportsman often shoots several at once. When the winter comes on they retire to the upland meadows, and hide themselves among the grass. They are simple and timorous birds, and are easily taken. The eggs of partridges are frequently hatched under the domestic hen, and the young fed on ants, eggs, curds, and grits, with a little green food; when old enough they are fed with grain. They are easily tamed, though it is said they never wholly forget their wild origin. The female partridge is smaller than her mate, and less pleasing in colour; her back is darker, and her belly without the brown patch in its centre. The male is twelve inches long and twenty broad, and the wing measures six and the tail three inches. The common partridge is almost exclusively a European bird. In Europe it is extensively distributed in all suitable localities, and inhabits all the level parts of England and Scotland. Partridges, Baked (al'Italienne).—Pluck and truss a brace of partridges as if for roasting, and put into each bird a forcemeat made as follows :—Grate half an ounce of stale bread into very fine crumbs. Season these with as much salt and white pepper as wiU stand on a threepenny-piece, and half a dozen grates of nutmeg; work in with the fingers an ounce of butter, and add a tea-spoonful of finely- minced parsley and a tea-spoonful of lemon- juice. Dip two sheets of note-paper into some pure salad-oil; peel, mince finely, and mix thoroughly, three good-sized mushrooms, a moderate-sized carrot, a small onion, two table- spoonfuls of parsley-leaves, and half a dozen leaves of thyme, with two or three truffles, if these are obtainable. Divide the minced vegetables into two equal portions, and spread them upon the paper, lay the partridges upon them, and cover the breasts with fat bacon, tied securely round with twine, and fasten the paper. Lay the birds side bv side, breasts uppermost, in a deep pan, cover the partridges closely, bake in a good oven, and baste once or twice during the process. When they are done enough, take off the paper and the bacon, put the birds on a hot dish, and pour over them a sauce made as follows :—Put half a pint of good stock into a saucepan, with an onion, the trimmings of the mushrooms and truffles, a slice of carrot, and a little salt and pepper, if required. Boil quickly for half an hour, then strain the sauce, thicken it with a dessert-spoonful of flour, add a dessert-spoon- ful of browning, two table-spoonfuls of claret, and the minced vegetables which covered the partridges; boil up once, and serve. Time, from thirty to forty minutes to bake the birds,PAB ( 608 ) FAB if of moderate size. Probable cost, Ss. Suffi- cient for four or five persons. Partridges, Boiled (Invalid Cookery). —Purtridj^cs aro uccuHioually boilod for old persons or invalids, and they are delicate and tender served thus. Wash them well, truss them as chickens are trussed for boiling, with- out the heads. Drop them into boiling water, sprinkle a tea-spoonful of salt over thoni, and let tliein simmer very gently for a quarter of an hour, or if the birds are old, twenty miixutos. Servo them with sliced lemon round the dish, and with white sauco, celery sauce, or broad sauce, accompanied by game gravy, iu a tureen. Probable cost of partridges, 3s. per brace. SutHcient for three or four persons. Partridges, Braised (a la Beamaise).— Pluck and draw a brace of partridges, and wipe them carefully with a damp cloth inside and out, cut off the heads, and truss the legs like those of boiled fowls. Put them into a stewpan, with two-tablc-spoonfuls of oil and a piece of garlic the size of a pea, and turn them about over a clear fire until they are slightly browned all over, then pour over them two table-spoonfuls of strong stock, one glassful of sherry, and two table-spoonfuls of preserved tomatoes, with a little salt, and plenty of pepper. Simmer all gently together until the partridges are done enough, and serve very hot; the sauce should be rather highly seasoned. Time, about ten minutes to simmer the partridges. Probable cost of partridges, Ss. per brace; the price, however, is very variable. Sufficient for three or four persons. Partridges, Braised (alaReine).—Truss a brace of partridges as if for boiUng. Fill them with good game forcemeat, in which there are two or three truffles cut into small pieces, and tie thin slices of fat bacon over them. Slice a small carrot into a stewpan, ^vith an onion, four or five sticks of celery, two or three sprigs of parsley, and an oimce of fresh butter. Place the partridges on these, breasts uppermost, pour over them half a pint of good stock, cover with a round of buttered paper, and simimer as gently as possible, until the partridges are done enough. Strain the stock, free it carefully from grease, thicken it with a little flour, add as much browning as is necessary, and flavour with cayenne, half a dozen drops of the essence of anchovy, and a table-spoonful of sherry. Stir this sauce over a gentle fiie until it is on the point of boiling, then pour it over the partridges, already dished upon toast, and serve immediately. Tune, about an hour and a half or less, to simmer the par- tridges. Probable cost of partridges, 3s. per brace. Sufficient for three or four persons. Partridges, Braised, wltli Cabbage. - Pluck and draw two partridges, truss them as if for boiling, and cover with thin slices of bacon, tied on securely with strong twine. Trim and wash two small cabbages, or a savoy, boil them, uncovered, for a quarter of an hour, and afterwards drain them thoroughly. Shce a carrot, an onion, and some sticks of celery, into a stewpan. Put with them three ounces of fresh butter, a large lump of sugar, crushed to powder, a salt-spoonful of pepper, the eighth of a grated nutmeg, and a little salt, the quan- tity to be regulated by the quality of tlio bacon. Put a layer of cabbage over those, then lay in the partridges, breasts upitennost, and after- wards the rest of tlio cabbage. Cover the whole with good stock, then sinmior as gently as possible until the partridges are done enough; keep muistening them witli gravy, if rotjuired. Dish tlio buds upon tlie biicon, and put the cabbage round them. To make the gravy, uux an oimco of butter with an ounce of flour, and stir them over the fire for three minutf;8, add a pint of good stock, and boil quickly for ten minutes. Strain the gravy into a tureen, and servo immediately. Fried sausages are often sent to table with this dish, which is a great favourite in France. Time, about one hour and a half to simmer the birds, &c. I'roljable cost of piirtridges, 38. per brace, but the price vai-ies. Sufliciont for four persons. Partridges, Braised, with Mush- rooms.—Pick, draw, singe, and truss as for boiling, a brace of young well-kept partridges. Dredge a little flour over them, and brown them equally and lightly in hot butter. Put them side by side into a stewpan, pour to them as much rich brown gravy, seasoned with salt and cayenne, as will hjilf cover them, and let them stew very gently until they are half done. Turn them over, put into the gravj'- wth them two dozen small mushrooms, and simmer again until the birds are done enough. Serve them on a hot dish, with the sauce poured over them. Time, about one hour and a half. Probable cost, 5s. Sufficient for five or six persons. Partridges, Braised, with Trufles.— Truss three young well-hung partridges, and braise them according to the directions given in the last recipe. Wash, wipe, and pare two or three fine truffles. Cut them into thin slices, put them into a stewpan, with a little salt and cayenne, a finely-minced shallot, and two table-spoonfuls of chopped parsley. Fry them gently for about a quarter of an hour, and be careful not to break them; then drain them, and put with them half an ounce of butter, the strained juice of a lemon, and a quarter of a pint of the brown gravy in which the partridges have been cooked. Let the sauce boil. Drain the partridges. Place them on a hot dish, in the form of a triangle, pour part of the sauce into the centre, and send the rest to table in a tureen. Time, one hour and a half to cook the birds ; a quarter of an hour to fry the truffles. Probable cost of partridges, Is. 6d. each; truffles, variable. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Partridges, Broiled.—Prepare the part- ridges as if for roasting; cut off their heads, spht them entirely up the back, and flatten the breastbones a little. AVipe them thoroughly inside and out with a damp cloth, scjison with salt and cayenne, and broil over a gentle fire. As soon as they are done enough rub them quickly over with butter, and send them to table on a hot dish, ^\-ith brown gnivy or mushroom sauce in a tureen. Time, fifteen minutes to broil the partridges. Probable coat.FAB ( 609 ) FAB of pai-tridges, 38. per brace. Sufficient for four persons. Fartridges, Broiled (another way).— Prepai-e the pailridgos as in the last recipe, sprinkle over them a little salt and cayenne, then dip them t%vice into clarified butter and very tine bread-crumbs, taking great care that the bii-ds are entirely covered. Place them on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broU them gently. Send them to table on a hot dish, with brown sauce or mushroom sauce in a tirreen. Time to broil the partridges, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, 3s. per brace. Suffi- cient for foirr persons. Fartridges, Chartreuse of.—Boil some carrots and turnips separately, and cut them into pieces two inches long and three-quarters of an inch in diameter. Braise two small sxtm- mer cabbages, or a savoy, drain them well, and stir them over the fire imtil they are quite dry; then roll them on a cloth, and cut them into pieces about two inches long and an inch thick. Eoast a brace of partridges, and cut them into neat joints. Butter a plain entree mould; line it at the bottom and the sides with buttered paper, and afterwards fit in the pieces of caiTot and turnip, to form a sort of wall; then fill it lip with the cabbage and the pieces of partridge in alternate layers. Steam the chartreuse to make it hot; turn it out of the mould upon an entree dish and garnish with turnips, carrots, and French beans. Send some good brown sauce to table with it. Time, half an hour to roast the partridges; two hours to braise the cabbage ; steam the chartreuse until it is quite hot. Probable cost, 48. Sufficient for four or five persons. Fartridges, Choosing. — Partridges should be chosen young: when the legs are yellow, the bills shai-p and dark- coloured, and the under feathers of the wings PABTMDOE. pointed. If the vent is stifiF, the bird is fresh, and if it is green and discoloured, the bird has been killed some time. The legs turn grey as the bird grows older. Old partridges are not good for much. The season for the common partridge lasts from September to February. Fartridges, Cold, Sauce for.—Boil an egg untU it is quite hard. Let it get cold, then rub it well with the back of a wooden spoon, and with it the flesh of a very small anchovy, from which the bones and skin have been removed, also a finely-minccd shallot, a tea-spoonful of mustard, and a little cayenne. When the dry ingredients are thoroughlj' blended, add, very gradually, two table-spoon- fuls of oil and tlu-ce tablo-si)oonfula of vinegar. Strain the sauce through muslin, and serve. Time, ten minutes to boil the egg. Probable cost, id. Sufficient for three or four persons. Fartridges, Mayonnaise of.—Roast a brace of partridges, cut them into neat joints, and put them aside for a few minutes. Boil two eggs for ten minutes, put them into cold water, and when they are cold take out the yolks, put them into a basin, and rub them smooth with the back of a wooden spoon. Add a small quantity each of salt, pepper, and mixed mustard, then very gradually four table-spoonfuls of oil, one table-spoonful of tarragon vinegar, four table-spoonfuls of aspic jelly, or failing this, good stock. If liked, the jelly or stock can be omitted. Put the partridges on a dish, pour the mayon- naise gently over them to cover them, and place a few hearts of freshly cut cabbage lettuce round them. Grarnish the dish with hard-boiled eggs cut into quaiters length- wise, and slices of boiled beetroot. Pro- bable cost, 3s. 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Fartridges, Fie of.—Pluck, draw, and singe three young partridges, and di-\dde them into halves, lengthwise. Mince the livei'S finely, and mix with them a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, a salt-spoonful of salt, half a salt- spoonful of pepper, two table-spoonfuls of bread-crumbs, and as much powdered mace as will cover a threepenny-piece; then put the forcemeat into the birds, and a piece of fresh butter, the size of a walnut, in each half Butter a shallow pie-dish, and line the edges with a good crust. Lay a slice of lean veal at the bottom, and season lightly with salt, pepper, and powdered mace. Wiap the birds in thin slices of fat bacon, pack them closely, breast downwards, upon the veal, and pour over them a quarter of a pint of good veal stock. Cover the dish with the pastry, ornament it prettily, brush it over with beaten egg, and bake in a moderate oven. This is a savoury dish, suitable either for breakfast, supper, or luncheon. Time to bake, one hour and a half. Probable cost, Gs. 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Fartridges, Fie of (another way) .—Pluck, di-aw, and singe a brace of young partridges, and season them, inside and out, with a little salt, cayenne, and powdered mace. Cover them with thin rashers of fat bacon, and put them into a stewpan with a quarter of a pint of veal stock, or water; put on the lid, and let them simmer as gently as possible for half an hour. Whilst they are simmering, make a forcemeat, by mincing together, very finely, a quarter of a pound of lean veal, a quarter of a pound of fat bacon, and a quarter of a pound of liver. Sea- son this with salt, cayenne, and powdered mace, and spread half of the forcemeat at the bottom of the dish. Take out the birds, and cut them into quarters. Lay half of the bacon which was tied round them upon the forcemeat, then pack in the partridges, and cover them with the remainder of the forcemeat and bacon-( «io ) PAR PAB Pour in three taWo-Hpoonfuls of the gravj-^ in ■which the i)m tridgo8 woio sinmiorod. Lino the odgos oi tho dish with good pustiy, and cover with tho sumo. Make a hole in tho contro and bake in a quick oven. JJofore sending tho pie to table, pour in a quarter of a pint of good gravy, which haa been slightly llavoui-od with lemon-juice. Time to bake, about one hour. Probable coat, 4s. 6d. Sufficient for tha-oo or four persona. Partridges, Pie of, Hunter's.—Pluck, draw, and aingo throo young partridges. Divide them into halves, sprinkle over them a little salt, cayenne, and powdered mace, and fry them in a little hot butter until they are equally and lightly browned all over. Line the edges of a shallow pie-dish with a good cruat. Lay two or throo thin alices of the fillet of veal and bacon at the bottom, and sprinkle over them two table-spoonfuls of finely-minced mush- rooms, a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and a little salt and cayenne. If mushrooms cannot be had, a table-spoonful of mushi'oom ketchup must supply their place. Pour a quarter of a pint of onion sauce over the veal, then pack the birds closely into the dish, breast upper- most, and add some more mushrooms, parsley seasoning, and onion sauce. Cover the pie with a good crust, ornament it prettily, brush it over with beaten egg, and bake in a moderate oven. Pour a quarter of a pint of melted savoury jelly into the pie before sending it to table. Time, an hour and a half to bake the pie. Probable cost, 7s. Sufficient for five or six persons. Partridges, Potted.—Prepare and truss the partridges aa if for roasting, and season them inside and out with pepper, salt, and grated nut- meg. Put a piece of fresh butter, the size of a large egg, inside the birds, and pack them, breast downwards, closely together in a pie- dish. Place three or four pieces of butter upon them, cover the dish with a coarse paste, made of flour and water, and bake them in a moderate oven. Do not remove the covering imtil the dish is quite cold; then take out the birds, free them entirely from gravj', cut them into con- venient-sized pieces, and pack them as closely as possible in a potting-jar, cover with clarified butter, and store in a cool place. Time, one hour to bake the partridges. Probable cost, Ss. per brace. Sufiicient for four or five persons. Partridges, Potted (another way).— Pick the meat from the remains of cold roast partridges, which have been well dressed. Re- move all the skin and gristle, mince the meat finely, and pound it in a mortar. Add, every now and then, a small quantity of fresh butter, and season with salt, cayenne, and grated nut- meg. When the meat is quite smooth, press it into small jars, cover with dissolved butter, and store in a cool place. About two ounces and a half of butter will be required for each half pound of meat. Time, forty minutes to roast the partridges. Probable cost, 3s. per brace. Partridges, Pudding of.—The flavour of partridges is never hotter preserved than when they are cooked in a pudding. Pluck, draw, and singe a brace of well-kept partridges, cut them into neat joints, and if they are not very young, take off tho akin before doing so. Lina a quart pudding-haain with a good suet crust half an inch in thickness, and in tiimming it off leave an inch above the edge. Lay a thin slice of rump steak at tho bottom of tho pudding, then put in tho pieces of partridge, season with pepper and salt, and i>our over them a quarter of a pint of good brown gravy. lioll out tho cover, ky it on the pudding, moisten the edge, and press over it the inch that was left round the nm. Wring a pudding-cloth out of hot water, flour it woU, and tie it seciu-ely over the pudding. Plunge it into boiling water, and keep it fast boiling all tho time it is on the fire; as soon aa it ia taken off, cut a small round of pastry out of tho top, to let the steam escape. If the appear- ance ia not objected to, partridge pudding, like all other meat puddinga, ia much bettor when served in the diah in which it waa cooked. If it ia to be turned out, however, the basin must be thickly buttered before the pastry is put in. A few mushrooms will be a great improve- ment to this pudding, though it will be very good without. Time, three hours to boU. Probable cost, 4s. 6d. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Partridges, Red-Legged.—These birds should be cooked according to the directions BED-LEGGED PABTBIDGE. given for the ordinary partridges. If they be himg a proper length of time they are very good, otherwise they are hard and tasteless. Probable cost uncertain, red-legged partridges being seldom offered for sale. Partridges, Roast.—Let the partridges hang as long as possible, or the flesh will be hard and flavourless. In cool weather they should be kept fully a fortnight before they are put down to the fire. They may be trussed either with or without the head, though the latter mode is at present more generally preferred. Pluck, singe, and draw the birds, and wipe them caref uUy, inside and out; cut off the heads, and leave enough skin on the neck to skewer them securely. Draw tho legs close to the breast, pass the trussing-needle and string through the pinions and the middle joints of the thighs, and tie and skewer the legs. If-the heads arc left on, they should be brought round, and turned under the vnng, with the bill laid on the breast. To give tho birds a plump appearance, pass the needle through the back, below the thighs, then again througli the body and legs, and tie the strings firmly. Put thePAR ( fill ) PAR birds down before a cleax fire, baste liberally with butter (a quarter of a pound will be required for a brace), and a few uiinutes before they are taken up flour them well, so that they may bro^vn nicely. The birds may be dished upon fried bread-crumbs, or upon a slice of buttered toast, which has been soaked in the gravy in the pan under the birds, or they may be put on a hot dish, and garnished with water- cresses. Brown gravy and bread-sauce should be sent to table with them; two or three thiu sHces of fat bacon, tied round the birds before they ai-e put down to the fire, will greatly improve their flavour; when obtainable, a large Tine-leaf may be laid on the breasts under the bacon. Time to roast a brace of partridges, thirty to forty minutes. Probable cost, 3s. per brace; but the price varies considerably. Suf- ficient for four or five persons. Partridges, Roast (a German recipe). —Truss the pai-tridges in the ordinary way. Place a vine-leaf upon the breast of each, over this lay two or three thin slices of fat bacon, and fasten these on securely with strong twine. Put the birds into a stewpan, just large enough to hold them, with as much butter as will keep them well basted, and when CABVING OV FABTBISQE. they are browned on one side turn them to the other, until they are equally coloured all over. When they are done enough, pour a cupful of thick cream over them, and sprinkle bread- crumbs, browned in butter, upon them. Time, a quarter of an hour to roast the birds. Pro- bable cost, 3s. per brace. Sufficient for four or five persons. Partridges, Roast, To Carve.—The partridge is cut up in the same way as a fowl {tee Fowl,_Eoast, To Carve). The prime parts of a partridge are the wings, breast, and merrj-^- thought. When the bird is small, .the two latter are not often divided. The wing is considered the best, and the tip of it considered the most delicate morsel of the whole. " Partridges," says Dr. Kitchener, "are cleaned and trussed in the same manner as a pheasant, but the ridi- ciilous custom of tucking the legs into each other makes them very troublesome to carve. In connection with the subject of carving, it cannot be too often repeated, that more infor- mation wiU be gained by observing those who carvo well, and by a little practice, than by any written directions whatever." Partridge Salad.—Roast partridges, and let them get cold; or cut and trim the remains of cold partridges into convenient-sized pieces. Put them into a dish or bowl, then sprinkle over these a little salt and cayenne, with a table-spoonful of minced parsley, and a table^ spoonful of mixed herbs, composed of equal portions of taiTagon, chervil, and chives. Add a table-spoonful of good veal stock, three dessert- spoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, and a quarter of a pint of salad-oil. Let the partridges lie in this maiinade for two hours. Wash and dry thoroughly three fresh lettuces, shred them finely, and lay them on a dish. Drain the pieces of partridge, and put them on the lettuce, ornament the dish with dried capers, parsley, gherkins, hard-boiled eggs, anchovies, aspic jelly, or anything else that is pre- ferred, and just before the salad is sent to table poui- the seasoned mixture, in which the pieces were soaked, over it. Time to roast the partridges, about half an hour. Probable cost of partridges, 3s. per brace. Partridges, Salmi of (a la Chasseur).— Take cold roast partridge—if under-dresseo. so much the better—cut into neat joints; remove the skin, fat, and sinew, and lay the pieces in a saucepan with four table-spoonfuls of salad-oil, six table-spoonfuls of claret, the grated rind and strained juice of a large fresh lemon, and a httle salt, pepper, and cayenne. Simmer gently for a few minutes until the salmi is hot throughout, then serve it immediately. Gar- nish with fried sippets. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for two persons. Partridges, Salmi of (a la Francjaise).— Roast a brace of well-hung young partridges, baste them liberally, and take them down when they are only three-parts cooked. Let them get cold; then cut them into neat joints, remove the skin, fat, and sinew, and put the good parts aside, being careful to cover them, and keep them in a cool place to prevent their becoming hard. Melt three ounces of fresh butter in a saucepan. Put with it a dozen small mush- rooms, a scraped carrot, two sliced shallots, half a blade of mace, a bay-leaf, a handful of parsley-leaves, a medium-sized onion, stuck with two cloves, a small sprig of thyme, and four ounces of undressed lean ham, cut into small pieces. Stir these over a gentle fire until they are lightly browned, sprinkle over them a table-spoonful of flour, let it brown slightly, and then stir in, very gradually, a pint of good veal gravy and a glassful of sherry. Add the bones and tiimmings of the birds, and boil the sauce gently until it is considerably reduced; then strain it, let it boil up once more, put in the pieces of partridge, and when they are quite hot, dish the salmi, and serve imme- diately. Garnish the dish with toasted sippets. When mushrooms cannot be obtained, their place may be supplied by a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup. Time, an hour and a half to simmer the sauce. Probable cost. Is. 6d., exclusive of the partridges. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Partridges, Salmi of (another way).— When the partridges are roasted expressly for the salmi they ought to be imder-dressed, and they should not be cut up imtil they are quite cold. A very good salmi, how- ever, may be made of the remains of cold partridge. Cut tho birds into neat joints.PAB ( 612 ) FAS carefully remove the Bkiii, fat, and sinew, and put the good piocoH iiHido. liruisd* tho ro- maindor, and put it, with tho Hkiu, bonoH, and trimmings, into a saucepan. Add two shallotH, a bay-h)af, throo or four sprigH of jjaralciy, and an ounce of frosh butter, and stir these about over a gentle fire until they are liglitly browned. Sprinkle over them a tablo-spoouful of flour, and pour in three-quarters of a pint of veal stock and a glassful of sherry; put in half a dozen peppercorns, a little salt, and half a blade of mace, and simmer the gravy very gently imtil it is considerably reduced. Strain it, and let it boil up again; then put in the pieces of partridge, and when they are quite hot, servo on a hot dish, with tho gravy pourod over thom. If liked, the livers of tho birds may be pounded, and mixed with the sauce. Garnish with toasted sippets. Time, an hour and a half to simmer the gravy. Probable cost, Is., exclusive of the partridge. Sufficient for two or three persons. Partridges, Salmi of, Cold.—Roast a brace of young partrid^s; cut them into neat joints, and lay them on a dish. Prepare the sauce according to the directions given in the last recipe. When it is sufficiently reduced, strain it, and dissolve in it a quarter of an ounce of gelatine, which has been soaked for half an hour in as much cold water as would cover it. Cover the joints of the partridges with the sauce, let it stiffen upon them, and then arrange them, piled high in a dish, and garnish with the savoury jelly, cut into rough pieces. Time, an hour and a half to simmer the sauce. Probable cost, 5s. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Partridges, Soup of.—Roast a brace of partridges before a brisk fire, so that they may brown quickly outside without losing their juice. Take them down when they are half dressed, cut off the breasts, and break up and bruise the bodies of the birds. Melt two ounces of fresh butter in a saucepan; slice into it two young carrots and four or five sticks of celery, and add two ounces of un- dressed lean ham, an onion, stuck with four cloves, half a blade of mace, two shallots, a bay-leaf, four or five bunches of parsley, and a small sprig of thyme. Stir these over a gentle fire until the sides of the saucepan acquire a reddish-brown tinge, then add the bodies of the birds, and, gradually, two quarts of good stock and six ounces of. brown thickening. Let the soup boil, remove the fat and the scum, and press it through a fine sieve. Put it again into the saucepan with the breasts of the birds, cut into small neat pieces, add a glassful of sherry, and a little salt and cayenne, if required; let the soup get thoroughly hot, without boiling, and serve immediately. A very nice soup may be made from grouse and partridge together; or even from the renmins of a cold roast grouse, stewed down with the partridges. Time, two hours and a half. Probable cost, 28. 6d. per quart. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Partridges, Soup of (another way).—• When partridges are too old to be satisfactorily < onl<p(l in anv other way, they may be made into soup, but it must bo understood that the soup will not be so good as if it were made from young birds. Skin the partridges and cut them into joints. Fry thom in butter with two sliced onions until lightly browned. Put them into a saucepan with three ounces of undressed loan ham and four or five sticks of celery, and pour over them two quarts of good stock. Bring the soup to a boil, skim care- fully, then di-aw it to the side of the fire, and lot it simmer gently for an hour. At the end of that time put into it a tea-spoonful of salt and half a tea-spoonful of peppercorns, and stew another hour. Strain the soup, pick the meat from tho birds, and pound it in a mortar to a smooth paste, and with it its bulk in bread, which has been soaked in stock and jjressed very dry. lilix this gradually with the soup, pass it again through a sieve, put it into a saucepan, bring it to the point of boiling, and serve immediately. Probable cost. Is. lOd. per quart. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Partridges. Stewed.—Truss a brace of partridges as ii for boiling, put them into a stewpan, cover with boUing stock or water, and put with them two onions, two carrots, a bunch of sweet herbs, half a blade of mace, and a little salt and cayenne. Simmer gently until they are tender, then take out a pint of the liquid in which they were stewed, and make with it some celery, onion, or Soubise sauce. Serve the birds as hot as possible, with the puree poured over them. Time, about thirty minutes to stew the part- ridges. Probable cost, 48. Sufficient for five or six persons. Partridges Stuffed with Mushrooms. —Take a pint of small mushrooms, and clean them by rubbing the tops with a piece of flannel and a little salt; rinse in a little cold water, lift them out quickly, and spread them on a clean cloth to dry. Dissolve two ounces of fresh butter in a saucepan over a slow fire, let it colour slightly, then throw in the mushrooms, sprinkle over them a little salt and cayenne, and shake the saucepan over the fire for ten minutes. Turn out the contents upon a dish, let them get cold, and, with them, stuff two young well-hung partridges. Sew up securely, truss firmly, and roast or stew the birds in the usual way; send mushroom sauce, or, if preferred, bread sauce, and gravy, to table with them. Time, half an hour or more to roast or to stew the partridges. Probable cost, 4s. 6d. Sufficient for four or five pei'sons. Passover Balls.—This is a name often given to forcemeat balls such as are used by the Jews; they are put into soup, and served with it. They are made as follows :— Put four table-spoonfuls of " matso-flour," or Jewish flour, into a bowl. Mix with it a pmch of salt, a little grated nutmeg, half a salt- spoonful of powdered ginger, and half a salt- spoonful of finely-minced lemon-rind. Mix those dry ingredients thoroughly, then pour over them four ounces of beef suet, which has been steamed with a salt-spoonful of tmely- minced onion, until it is entirely melted, ^tlrFAS ( «18 ) PAS the mixture "briskly for a minute or two, and bind it together with three well-beaten eggs. Make it up into balls, and throw these into the boiUng Hquid. \Yhen they are done enough, lift them out carefully with a strainer, put them into the tureen, and pour the soup over them. Serve immediately. Time to boil the baUs, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, 7d. Suffi- cient for half a dozen persons. Passover Cakes.—Beat four fresh eggs thoroughly. Stii- into them eight ounces of the peculiar flour which is used only in Jewish famihes. Add a pinch of salt, a tea-spoonful of powdered loaf sugar, a quarter of a pint of milk, and a quarter of a pint of lukewarm water. Beat the mixture thoroughly, put it into a tin, and bake in a brisk oven. Pro- bable cost, 7d. Sufficient for two or three persons. Paste.—Recipes for making the following pastes will be found under their respective headings:— Almond Garlic Anchovy German Apricot Gooseberry Apricot, Green Italian Brioche, or French Lemon for Dessert Cheese Nouilles Cherry Orange, Seville Cocoa-nut Pate Brisee Croquant Puff Currant Rice Farferl Short Flour Tart. Fruit Paste, Brioche.—Brioche paste may be served in a great variety of ways, all of which are excellent. It may be baked in one large cake; in fancy shapes, such as rings and twists; or in small loaves, rolls, or buns. Gruy^re and Parmesan cheese or sweets may be introduced into it, or small portions may be stewed in soup, or fried, or used as the outer FASTE-BOABD AND PIN. crust in which rissoles are cooked. Its most usual form, however, is that of a sort of double cake, the two parts being moulded separately, and moistened before they are joined, to cause them to adhere closely to one another. The upper portion of the brioche should be made smaller than the lower one, and the entire cake should be brushed over virith beaten egg before it is imt into the oven. When jam is put into brioches, it should be mixed with part of the R paste, and the rest rolled out, and put round it, so as to keep the fruit from boiling out. Cheese, on the contrary, should be well mixed with the paste, which should then be baked in tlie ordinary way. Gruyere cheese should be cut into small dice, and Parmesan cheese grated for this purpose. Brioche paste is best made on the evening of *ho day before it is wanted, as it requires to lie in a cool place for some hours before it is baked. Though delicious, it is considered rather indigestible. It must be baked in a well-heated oven. The quantity only which wiU be wanted for immediate use should be made at one time, as brioche paste will not keep. When properly prepared it is light and springy to the touch before it is baked, and it ought to rise in the sponge to fully twice its original size. It is made as follows:—Take a pound (weighing sixteen ounces) of dried and sifted flour. Divide it into four parts, and with one of these parts . make the leaven. To do this, put the flour into a bowl, make a hollow in the middle of it, and pour into this hoUow half an ounce of German yeast dissolved in a spoonful or two of warm water. Add as much water as is required to make the whole into a soft smooth paste, gather it into a ball, and put it into a bowl large enough to contain three times its quantity. Score the paste lightly across the top with the blunt side of a knife, cover with a cloth, and put it in a warm place to rise; it wiU be ready in about twenty minutes. Whilst it is rising take the remaining three parts of the flour. Make a hole in the centre, and put into this hole a quarter of an ounce of salt, half an ounce of powdered sugar dissolved in two table-spoonfuls of tepid water, ten ounces of butter, which has been washed in two or three waters, squeezed in a cloth to free it from moisture, and broken into smaU pieces, and four eggs freed from the specks. Work all gently together with the fingers, and add one by one three more eggs, until the paste is quite smooth, and neither too hard to be worked easily nor so soft that it sticks to the fingers. "WTien the leaven is sufficiently risen, put it upon the paste, and mix both together with the fingers gently and thoroughly. Put the dough into a basin, and leave it in a warm place all night. Early on the following morning knead it up afresh, let it rise two hours longer, and knead once more before it is baked. Brioche paste should be put into a well-heated oven. The time required for baking depends, of course, upon the size of the cake. Its appearance will soon show when it is done enough. The materials here given, if baked in one cake, would require about half an hour. Probable cost, 28. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Paste for Common Pies.—Very ex- cellent pastry may be made with lard ot dripping, instead of butter, or with a mixture of lard and dripping. Good beef fat, or suet melted gently down, and poured oflE before it has had time to bum, is very nearly as good as anything that can be used for making pastry ^ for everyday use. Very palatable pics may be made from the dripping from roast beef, veal, pork, or mutton, though the last named( 8H ) PAS PAts is thought by somo to impart a disagrooablo flavour of tallow to pastry. Tho quantity of fat usod must, of course, bo rtigulatod by tho expense, and it may bo romeuibevud that a rich crust is neither so digestible nor so suitable for many dishes as a substantial light one, and that tho lightness of pastry depends quite aa much upon a light, quick, cool hand as on a largo amount of butter or lard. The iiddition of a beaten egg or a little lemon-juice to tho water, or a tea-spoonful of baking-powder to the flour, will make tho paste lighter. It "should be remembered, however, that though baking- powder is excellent for common pastry that is to be used immediately, pies are more likely to get dry quickly when it is used. Two recipes aro hero given for good plain pastry, and they may be varied according to the taste and resources of tho cook. Paste for Meat or Fruit Pies, &c. —Mix the eighth part of a peck of flour with some cream and raw eggs. Add half a pound of butter broken in pieces, which must not be too small, and roll the paste lightly. To make paste for custards, mix the flour with boiling water and butter, sugar being added, if neces- sary. If this is done, it will be f oxmd to increase the stiffness of the paste. {See also Crust, Dripping.) Paste for Meat or Savoury Pies.— Sift two pounds of fine flour to one and a half of good salt butter, which has been broken up, and washed well in cold water; rub gently together the butter and flour, mix it up with the yolks of three eggs, beat together with a spoon, and nearly a pint of spring water; roll it out, double it in folds three times, and it is ready. Paste for Raised Pies.—In making raised pies the first consideration is whether the pastry is intended to be eaten or not. If it is intended merely to form a mould in which to hold the meat, it may be made firm and com- pact without very much difficulty, and may be beaten with the rolling-pin or kneaded with the knuckles to make it stiff and hard. If it is intended to be eaten, greater care wUl be necessary. It must be remembered that small pies are much easier to make than large ones, and the very easiest and best way for inexperienced persons to make them is to use one of the tin moulds manufactured for the purpose, which opens at the sides. The French pastry named Pate Brisee, the recipe for which is given {see Crust, Pate Brisee), makes a good crust for small raised pics. When tho pastry is not to be eaten, dissolve three or four ounces of lard in haK a pint of boiling water, and stir in as much flour as will make a stiff smooth paste. A little more than a pound of flour will be required. Knead it thoroughly with the fingers, and when it is sufficiently firm to keep its form when moulded, put it into a bowl, and cover with a cloth until it is nearly cold. Dredge a httlo flour on the pastry-board, put the pastry upon it, and roll it with the hands into the shape of a sugar-loaf or cone, with the diameter of tho lower part rather less than the size requiicd for tho pic. Place the cone upright, and flatten tho top until it is half tho height Press it down with the knuckles of the riglit hand, at tho same time forming tho walls of tho pie with the left. When tlio Bides are smooth, and of equal thickness, fill the pie, roll out tho cover, lay it on, and make a hole in the centre. Fasten the edges securely with a little egg, ornament tho pio according to fancy, glaze it by brushing it over with tlie beaten yolk of an egg, and bake in a quick oven. An easier way of shaping a raised pie is to roll out the pastry to the required thick- ness, and then cut out a piece for the top and bottom, and a long strip for the sides. Tliese pieces must be fastened with egg, and tlie edges pressed over one another, so as to be securely fastened. The pie may then be finisliod according to the directions given above. When the crust is intended to be eaten, the pastry may be made according to tho directions given for Pate Brisee {see Crust, Pate Brisee), or as follows:—Rub a quarter of a pound of butter into a pound of flour. Sprinkle over it a small tea-spoonful of salt. Put another quarter of a pound of butter into a saucepan, with the third of a pint of milk. Stir it over a gentle fire until the butter is dissolved, then pour the liquid over the flour, and stir it to a smooth stiff paste. Dredge some flour over it; give it two or three turns, and mould it into the proper shape before it has had time to cool. Time to bake raised pies, from two to five hours, according to size. Paste, French, for Meat Pies, Hot or Cold.—Put a pound of flour into a bowl, and rub lightly into it half a poimd of fresh butter. Add half a tea-spoonful of salt, and make the mixture up into a smooth stiff paste, by stirring into it two fresh eggs which have been beaten up with rather less than a quarter of a pint of water. Roll the pastry out, give it two or three turns, and bake as soon as possible. Time, ten minutes to prepare. Probable cost. Is. 2d. Paste, PufT or Feuilletage.—This paste, though decidedly superior to every other kind in appearance and taste, is rather indigestible for delicate persons. Good sweet salt butter,. which has been well washed in cold water, squeezed with the hands to free it from the salt, and afterwards wrung in a cloth to take away all the moisture, is the best material which can be used for it. The consistency of the butter is of considerable importance. If it is too hard, it will not easily mix with the flour, but if it is too soft, the paste will be entirely spoilt, in consequence of the butter breaking through the edges whilst it is being rolled. As tho difficulty experienced is generally to get the butter sufficiently cool, many cooks place it upon ice before using it for the pastry. In hot weather, the paste should be placed on the floor for a few minutes, to keep it cool between each turn. If very flaky pastry is required, the paste may bo brushed lightly over each time it is rolled with white of egg. In mak-ing puff pa.sle pro- ceed as follows:—Dry thoroughly and sift one poimd of best flour. Put it on a marble( 615 ) PAS PAS Blab or slate, if at hand—if not, on a clean pastry-board—miiko a hole in the centre, and put into it half a tea-spoonful of salt, and rather less than half a pint of water. The exact quantity of water cannot be given, but ex- perience will soon enable the cook to determine when the paste is sufliciently stiff. It should be mixed in gradually with a knife, and should form a clear smooth paste, being worked lightly with the hands, vmtil it ceases to adhere to them or to the board. Lot it remain on the slab for two minutes. Have ready prepared three- quarters of a pound of butter, freed from salt and moisture. Flatten the paste till it is an inch thick, lay the butter in the centre, and fold over the four sides of the paste, so as to form a square, and completely hide the butter. Leave this to cool for two or three minutes, then dredge the slab and the paste with flour, and roU the paste out till it is three feet in length, and be especially careful that the butter does not break through the flour. {See what was said above on this subject.) Fold over a third of the length from one end, and lay the other third upon it. This folding into three is called giving one turn. Put the paste in a cool place for ten minutes, give it two more turns, rest again, and let it have other two. This will be in all five turns, and these will generally be found sufficient. If, however, the pastry is to be used for vol-au-vents or patties, six or seven times will be required. Gather the paste together and it is ready for use, and may be used at once, or left till next day. Handle it aU the time as lightly as possible, and remember to dredge a little flour over it, the board, and the rolling-pin every time it is rolled, to keep it from sticking. French cooks mix the yolks of two eggs with the flour and water in the first instance. If a very rich paste is required, a poimd of butter may be put with a pound of flour. Probable cost. Is. 2d. per pound. Paste, Puff (an easy way of making).— Dry and sift the flour, and prepare the butter as in the last recipe. Equal weights of butter and flour may be used, or three-quarters of a poimd of butter to each pound of flour. Put a little salt into the flour, and make it into a paste by stirring gradually into it with a knife rather less than half a pint of water. RoU it out till it is an inch thick. Divide the butter into quarters: break one of these quarters into small pieces, and sprinkle these over the paste. Dredge a little flour over it, and turn it over, then repeat the process, until all the butter is incorporated with the paste. Let the paste rest for ten minutes between each two roUs. Equal parts of lard and butter may be used for this paste, and if the yolk of an egg or the strained juice of half a lemon be mixed with the water in the first instance, the paste will be lighter. Probable cost. Is. 2d. per pound {see also Puff Paste, Household). Paste, Rich Cream, for Tarts.—Dry and sift a pound of flour, and mix with it half a tea-spoonful of salt and a table-spoonful of crushed loaf sugar. Rub into it a quarter of a pound of sweet butter, and mix gradually with it sufficient cream to mako it into a smooth paste. If cream cannot be had, the yolks of two eggs may be beaten up with a little milk, and substituted for it. Roll the paste out two or three times, and use as quickly as possible. Probable cost, if made with cream. Is, 6d. per pound. Paste, Scraps of, How to use.—If any scraps or shreds of paste are left after making pies or tarts, gather them into one lump, and roll this out until it is as thin as possible. Stamp it into fancy shapes, prick these lightly with a fork, place them on a baking-tin, and bake in a quick oven untU they are firm, without being browned. Sift powdered sugar over them, and serve prettily arranged round a dish of stewed fruit. Time, about eight minutes to bake. Paste, Short, for Tarts and Fruit Pies.—Put a pound of dried and sifted flour into a bowl, and mix with it half a tea-spoonful of salt and a table-spoonful of powdered sugar. Rub half a pound of butter, or butter and lard, into the flour, and make it into a paste by stirring in rather more than a quarter of a pint of water or milk : the yolks of two eggs may be added or not. RoU the paste out once only; handle it lightly, and use it as required. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Paste, Short, for Tarts and Fruit Pies (another way).—Mix a smaU tea-spoonful of salt with a pound of dried flour. Rub in four ounces of butter and four ounces of lard or good beef dripping. Add a tea-spoonful of baking powder, and a table-spoonful of powdered sugar. Make the whole into a stiff paste by stirring in a little water, roll it out lightly once only, and it is ready for use. Time, ten minutes to prepare. Probable cost, 9d. Paste, Short, for Tarts and Fruit Pies (another way).—To one pound and a quarter of fine flour add ten ounces of fresh butter, the yolks of two beaten eggs, and three ounces of sifted loaf sugar; mix up together with half a pint of new milk, and knead it weU. This crust is frequently iced. Paste, Suet, for Boiled Puddings. —Chop very finely six ounces of beef suet, freed from skin and sinew, and whilst chopping it keep dredging a Uttle flour over it. Mix with it one pound of flour, and add as much cold water as wiU make the mixture up into a firm smooth paste. RoU it out, and it is ready for use. If a richer crust be required, a larger proportion of suet may be used, but this is quite good enough for ordinary pur- poses. Time, ten minutes to prepare. Pro- bable cost, 4d. Paste, Suet, for Boiled Puddings (another way).—Pick and chop A'ery fine halt a pound of beef suet, add to it one pound and a quarter of flour, and a Uttle salt; mix it with half a pint of milk or water, and beat it weU with the rolling-pin, to incorporate the suet with the flour. Paste, Transparent, for Tarts, &c. —Wash three-quarters of a pound of best salt butter in two or three waters, and press it Ayell to free it from moisture. Put it in a saucepan over a gentle fi^e, until it ia melted withoutPAS ( 616 ) PAS being oiled, then Bet it aside, and when it is nearly cold, stir into it a woU-boaton egg and a pound of driisd and sifted ilour. lioU it out till it is very thin, lino the tartlot-tins with it as quickly and lightly as possible, brusli them over with water, sift powdored loaf sugar upon thoni, and bake in a modorato oven lor about ton nainutos. Probable cost. Is. 2d. Pastry.—In making pastry, the first thing to be remembered is that every article used in its preparation should be scrupulously clean; and in order to insure this it is best to have all the utensils washed and thoroughly dried directly after they are used, and dusted when they are again required. In addition to this there must be good materials, a well regulated oven, a cool room, and a cook who brings to her work a cool, light, quick hand, close attention, and a little experience. There are four principal kinds of pastry : puff paste, or feuilletage; short crust, for family use; standing crust, for meat and fish pies; and brioche paste, which is a sort of dough used for loaves, rolls, and buns. As cool hands are required, it is best to wash them in water as hot as can be borne a minute or two before making the pastry. The heat of the oven should in most cases be moderate, and the door should be only opened when it is absolutely necessary during the process of baking. The best way of ascertaining if the oven is properly heated, is to bake a small piece of pastry in it before putting in the pie or tart. •Standing crusts require a quicker oven than ordinary pastry. In all cases wetting the pastry much will make it tough. Pastry Cream, for Garnishing Tartlets and other Pastry.—Rub together one ounce of flour and a well-beaten egg. When quite smooth, add a small pinch of salt, one ounce of powdered and sifted sugar, and a quarter of a pint of milk, and stir the mixture over the fire imtil it boils. Draw the saucepan to the side, cover closely, and let the contents simmer gently for a quarter of an hour; then turn the mixture into a bowl, and add to it the yolks of two eggs and a table-spoonful of powdered ratafias, with any additional flavoiiring that may be liked. Put a lump of butter the size of a small egg into a saucepan, place it on a gentle fire. As soon as it is lightly coloxired stir it into the flavoured cream. When cold it is ready for use. Probable cost, 6d. Pastry, Glazing of.—Glazed pastry is generally used for meat pies or raised pies. If it is wished to give a deep glaze to the pie, beat the yolk of an egg thoroughly, and when the pastry is almost done enough, take it out of the oven and brush it lightly over with the egg, then put it in again a minute or two to set. If a lighter glaze is required, brush the pie with the whole of the egg, to which a spoonful of milk may be added, or not. Time, five or six minutes to set the glaze. Probable cost. Id. The yolk of one egg will be enough to glaze three or four pies. Pastry, Good Plain.—Mix a tea- spoonful of salt with a pound of flour. Rub in a quarter of a pound of rather soft lard or di-ippmg, until the ingiedients are thoroughly blonded, then add two tea-spoonfuls of baking, powder. Draw the mixture to one; side of the bowl, pour a little water into the vacant space, and with four fingers work the ingredients to a soft paste. Lift the pastry out in small quuiititios as it acquires the proper consistency. Roll it out till sufliciently thick to spread another four ounces of lard upon it, dredge a little flour on it, give it one or two turns, and it is ready for use. This pastry requires a quick oven. Time, ten minutes to make. Probable cost, 6d. Pastry, Good Plain (anotherway).—Mix a tea-spoonful of salt with a pound of flour. Rub in lightly six ounces of butter or lard, or half butter and half lard, and stir water in briskly with a fork. When the mixture is smooth and compact, roU it out two or three times, and it is ready for use. Time, ten minutes to make. Probable cost, 8d. per pound. Pastry, Iced.—Iced pastry is generally used for fruit tarts and sweet dishes; there are two or three ways of doing it. First—beat the white of an egg to a firm froth When the pastry is almost done enough take it out of the oven, brush it over with the egg, cover it with powdered sugar, sprinkle a few drops of water upon it, and return it to the oven for a few minutes to harden, taking care that it does not colour. Or—mix half a pound of powdered and sifted sugar with the white of an egg, beaten to a firm froth, and two table-spoonfuls of cold water; keep stirring imtil the icing is used. When the pastry has been baked, and is nearly cold, brush it over with the icing, and put it into a cool oven to harden. Or— moisten the pastry with cold water before baking it, and press a thick coating of powdered sugar lightly upon it. Pastry, Plaits of {see Plaits of Pastry). Pastry Powder, or Baking Powder. —Take an equal bulk, not weight, of tartaric acid, carbonate of soda, and ground rice. Mix thoroughly. Roll the mixture with the rolling- pin to free it from lumps, and keep it in a closely-stoppered wide-mouthed bottle until wanted. When making common pastrj^, put a tea-spoonful of the powder with every pound of flour, and in making cakes allow a heaped tea-spoonful to every poimd of material. This powder will make the pastry lighter, and render it also more digestible. Time, a few minutes to prepare. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Pastry Ramakins.—Roll out evenly and tliinly a quarter of a pound of good puff paste. Sprinkle over it a little finely-grated Parmesan, fold, roll it again, and sprinkle a little more cheese upon it; then roll it out once more, stamp it into any fancy shapes, and brush over with yolk of egg. Put the rama- kins on a buttered baking-tin, and bake them in a brisk oven. Serve as hot as possible. These ramakins should be served with cheese. Time, about a quarter of an hour to bake. ProT)able cost, 6d. Sufficient for three or four persons. UN' 1 'C•1