8 find Courses of Lectures during at least four Winter and three Summer Sessions :— Duration—at least Anatomy, 2 Courses,*...Six months each. Practical Anatomy, Twelve months. Chemistry, 1 Course,... Practical Chemistry, 1 Do. ... (The Number of Pupils in each Class being limited to 25.;) Or Analytical Chemistry, 1 Do. ... Materia Medica, 1 Do.f... Physiology, or Institutes of Medicine,.. 1 Do.J ... ...Six months. Practice of Medicine, 1 Do. ... Clinical Medicine, ...Six montbs.ll Principles and Practice of Surgery,.... 1 Do. ... ...Six months. Clinical Surgery, In addition to the above Courses of Surgery l 1 Do. ... Do ...Six months.|| ...Six months.|| and Clinical Surgery, one Course of either of [ these at the option of the Student. ' 1 Midwifery and the Diseases of Women ) and Children, j 1 Do ...Three months. Medical Jurisprudence, 1 Do. ... ...Three months. Pathological Anatomy, or General ) Pathology, j !i Do. ... ... Three months.^! Botany, l Do ...Three months. Besides the above-mentioned Courses of Lectures, the Can- didate must have attended at least six cases of Labour under the superintendence of a qualified Medical Practi- tioner, either in a recognised Maternity Hospital, or in a * The Two Courses must not be simultaneous. + This Course will be accepted for three or for six months according to the opportunities presented by the School at which the Candidate has studied. i In those Schools of England and Ireland in which two separate Courses of Lectures are delivered at separate hours, one on Anatomy, the other on Anatomy and Physiology, the former of these Courses will be received as one of the two Courses of Anatomy required by the Colleges, and the other as the Course of Physiology, or Institutes of Medicine. II Two Courses of Clinical Medicine of three months each, if not simul- taneous, will be held equivalent to one Course of six months. They must be attended during the period of attendance at the Hospital where they are delivered. The same rules will apply to Clinical Surgery. H This Course will not be imperative on Students who have begun their Medical Studies before the 1st of October 1860.