125 DISSECTION OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY (e) Cutaneous twigs from the posterior cutaneous nerve of the thigh {N. cuianeus femoris posterior) (0. T. cutaneous branches of small sciatic), passing around the lower border of the glutaeus maximus. (ea) Inferior nerves of buttock {Nn. clunium inferiores). (eh) Perineal branches {rami perineales). (/) Posterior branches of lateral cutaneous nerve of thigh {N. cuta- neus femoris lateralis) (0. T. external cutaneous). These nerves should be traced as far as possible and their distribution carefully noted. Deep Fascia. Remove the remaining portion of the superficial fascia, pre- serving the nerves, and expose the deep fascia. Notice the general character of this fascia anteriorly, where it covers the M. glutaeus medius, and compare it in general characteristics with that portion of the fascia covering the M. glutaeus maximus. After having made a careful study of this fascia, remove it in a continuous layer from above down- ward, after having rendered the muscle tense beneath by ro- tating the thigh medialward. The borders of the muscle should be carefully defined; note that the thin fascia covering the latter becomes continuous with the dense pearly aponeurosis covering the muscle immediately anterior to it. In dissecting away this fascia, cut always in the direction of the muscle fibres. Glutaeus Maximus Muscle (M. glutaeus maximus). Note carefully the form, position, origin, insertion, action, and innervation of this muscle. What is the relation of the muscle to the dense fibrous band {tractus iliotibialis) passing from the ilium to the tibia? How does the size of this muscle in man compare with that in other animals? After having care- fully examined and drawn this muscle, the student may reflect it in the following manner: The two borders of the muscle should be freed and the hand passed under the muscular mass. Detach the muscle from its attachment to the ilium. Proceed cautiously as the upper margin of the greater sacrosciatic foramen {fora- men ischiadicum majns) is approached and avoid the gluteal ves- sels as they pass through this opening. Secure these and detach the muscle from the side of the sacrum, exposing the piriform muscle (M. piriformis) as it emerges from the pelvis. Separate the muscular fibres from the ligamentum sacrotuberosum (O. T. great sacrosciatic ligament) and the side of the coccyx, avoiding