323 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD AND NECK I. Olfactory nerves {Nn. olfaclorii). Do not confuse these with the olfactory tracts. Try to lind the line threads of the Nn. olfactorii penetratiiii*' the ventral surface of each bulhns olfactorius. They come from the nasal nmcons membrane, through the lamina cribrosa of the ethmoid bone. II. Optic nerve {N. opticus). It runs from the back of the eyeball to the optic chiasm. The student’s later studies will show him that the optic nerve is really not a pei’ipheral nerve, like the other cerebral nerves, but rather a part of the central nervous system. Fig. 143. Gyrus rectus Fissura longitudinalis cerebri Trigonum olfactoriuin N. Chiasma opticum Corpus mammillare Uncus (gyri hippocampi) N. oculomotorius • Pedunculus cerebri Substantia perforata posterior (Fossa interpeduncularis) (Pons Varolii) N. trigeminus N. abducens N. facialis N. intermedins N. acusticus N. hj7)oglossus Pyramis fmedullae oblongatae) Radix anterior N. cervicalis I. Fissura mediana anterior Decussatio pyramidum Tractus olfactorius Stria olfaotoria medialis Stria olfactoria intermedia Stria olfactoria lateralis Substantia perforata anterior -—Tuber cinereum and infundibulum —Tractus opticus — Sulcus n. oculomotorii Radix lateralis -> tractus Radix medialis] optici Corpus geniculatum laterale Fasciculus obliquus (pontis) Sulcus basilaris Brachium pontis Foramen caecum Oliva Corpus restiformc Fibrae arcuatae externae Sulcus lateralis anterior Funiculus lateralis The medulla oblongata, pons (Varolii), cerebral peduncles, and part of the floor of the midbrain. Seen from the basal surface. (After Toldt, Anat. Atlas, Wien, 19U3, 3 Aufl., p. 7G5, Fig. 1174.) III. Oculomotor nerve {N. oculomotorius). Look for it in the fossa inter- peduncularis. It belongs to the midbrain. IV. Trochlear nerve (V. trochlearis). While all the other cerebral nerves emerge from the ventral aspect of the brain-stem, this nerve emerges on the dorsal aspect. Its exact origin ivill be seen later. Note that it is on the lateral aspect of the pedunculus cerebri, while the oculomotor nerve is on the medial aspect of that structure. V. Trigeminal nerve (N. trigeminus). (а) Larger portion (jjortio major), sensory. (б) Smaller portion {portio minor), motor.