INTRODUCTION 18 and artistic, in his work in the dissecting-room, how much better for him than if at the outset of his career he become satisfied with superficial observation, with interrupted and irregular activity, with disorder and uncleanliness! The habits formed in the anatomy building have their effect upon the whole life of the physician. Moreover, the very first dissection may be all-important as regards the subsequent dissections. He who fails in his earliest dissection to acquire the habit of working according to a definite method seldom learns later to become an exact, quick, and careful dissector. It is almost hopeless to try to make a man do exact and clean work in the dissecting-room after he has once formed inaccurate and dirty habits. The student in the beginning should aim not so much at rapidity as at method. When he has once formed the habit of proceeding always according to a care- ful method, the rapidity will quickly follow. It is sometimes asked, Why should the medical student spend so much time and take so much pains in making a careful and beautiful dissection? Is it not time wasted to work out the smaller branches of the nerves and blood-vessels ? ’ ’ Expe- rienced teachers who require thorough work are not disturbed by such inquiries. Those who have had the best opportunity for judging assert that it is only when a man succeeds in making a fine dissection that he gains an interest and pleasure in an occupation which may not at first be attractive to him. Further, the importance of working out the finer structures lies not always so much in the actual knowledge of these structures gained by the student, as in the acquisition of the habit of thor- oughness of observation and investigation. The medical student who in the dissecting-room dissects out only the main trunks of the vessels and nerves, or only the structures which at the moment seem to physicians and surgeons of greatest ]3ractical import, is likely as a clinician to be satisfied with the detection of the more obvious and superficial symptoms, to the overlooking of the less prominent s^unptoms and the more obscure physical signs. The thorough dissector is much more likely later to become a finely discriminating physician and an effective pro- gressive surgeon. Again, if a dissector permit himself to expose structures roughly, to isolate them incompletely, and to clean them imperfectly, so that his dissection becomes indistinct, bad- smelling, and repulsive-looking, he will quickly lose interest in his work, slice the part desperately, neglect it, stay away from it, and fail utterly to benefit by it. Each student should, therefore,