471 ABDOMEN AND PELVIS anterior caeca! and the appendicular and recurring iliac arteries, and also a band of muscle passing from the base of the appendix to the ileum. There are thus formed three Folds {plicae). {a) Mesentericocaecal fold {plica mesentericocaecalis), which con- tains the short anterior caecal artery. {b) Meso-appendix {mesentericum processus vermiformis), in which the appendicular artery runs. (c) Ileocaecal or ileo-appeiidicular fold {plica ileocaecalis or plica ileo- appendicularis), containing' the muscular band passing from the base of the appendix to the ileum and the recurring ileal branch of the appendicular artery. This plica is often spoken of as the “ bloodless fold of Treves.” These three plicae form two fossae. Fossae. (See Cunningham, pp. 1030, 1031; Poirier et Charpy, pp. 338“ 340.) (a) Superior ileocaecal recess {recessus ileocaecalis superior), situated behind the plica mesentericocaecalis. This fossa and fold corre- spond to the ileocolic of Cunningham. It is well developed in the new-born, but is less distinct in the adult. Increase in the diameters of the caecum and deposition of fat within the plica account for the diminution in size. {h) Inferior ileocaecal recess or ileo-appendieular fossa {recessus ileo- caecalis inferior). This is the ileocaecal fossa of Cunningham. If the appendix is drawn downward and the finger passed along the lower border of the terminal part of the ileum towards the caecum, it will generally enter a fossa situated in the angle between the ileum and the caecum. The fold bounding this fossa in front is the “ bloodless fold of Treves,” or plica ileocaecalis; that behind, the meso-appendix, or mesenteriolum processus ver- miformis. Turn the caecum and adjacent parts of the ileum upward and expose the following: Folds {plicae). {a) Parietocaecal fold {plica parietocaecalis), extending from the iliac fossa or lumbar region to the external wall of the caecum or colon ascendens. Note the general shape and attachments of this fold. Does it contain vessels'? Between what vessels do they establish an anastomosis'? (Vide Poirier et Charpy, t. iv., 340.) (h) Mesentericoparietal fold {plica mesentericoparietalis). This fold represents not only the attachment of the mesentery to the iliac fossa, but also its prolongation below along the posterior abdomi- nal wall into the pelvic cavity. Is this fold ever prolonged as far downward as the openings of the femoral and inguinal canals'? Fossae or recesses. (a) Retrocaecal fossa {recessus retrocaecalis). Determine accurately the boundaries, depth, breadth, etc., of