1G9 DISSECTION OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY leg muscles to locomotion. The relative atrophy of the motor system of the toes is due to the loss of its femoral attachment and to a displacement of the flexors and extensors, deprived of their tibial and tibular attach- ments, downward into the intrinsic musculature of the foot. The pro- nator and supinator systems are almost absent, being represented l)y the popliteiis alone, and this through skeletal moditications has lost its primi- tive role. The muscles of the leg, like those of the forearm, are delimited into an anterior, a posterior, and a lateral group by the bones of the leg and aponeurotic septa. Study carefully the origin, insertion, form, action, and inner- vation of the following muscles: (a) Triceps muscle of the calf {M. triceps surae). (Vide Spalteholz, Figs. 393-94.) (aa) Gastrocnemius muscle {M. gastrocnemius). {aaa) Lateral head {caput laterale). Look for a small sesamoid cartilage or bone in this head. Observe the lateral bursa of the gastrocnemius {bursa M. gastrocnemii lateralis) and the bursa bicipitogas- trocnemialis. {aab) Medial head {caput mediate). Observe the medial bursa of the gastrocnemius {bursa M. gastrocnemii medialis) and the bursa M. semimembranosi. Dis- sect this bursa out carefully and determine whether or not it communicates with the joint-cavity. Divide the gastrocnemius transversely near its attachment to the tendo Achillis and reflect it upward, preserving vessels and nerves passing into each head, and study the muscle beneath the M. gastrocnemius. {ab) Soleus muscle {M. soleus). (Vide Spalteholz, Fig. 394.) Determine its exact origin from the fibula and tibia. Note that the tendon of this muscle fuses with the tendon of the gastrocnemius to form the— {aha) Tendo calcaneus [Achillis]. Divide the soleus transversely at the level at which it joins the gastrocnemius. Incise the belly of the soleus in the middle line and expose the tendinous arch {arcus tendineus M. sold) and the blood-vessels and nerves entering the muscle. The plantaris muscle may be divided to permit of the turning of the tendo calcaneus [Achillis] downward. Determine its exact attachment to the os calcaneum and study the following bursae; (1) Bursa subcutanea calcanea. (Vide Spalte- holz, Fig. 393.) (2) Bursa tendinis calcanea. (Vide Spalteholz, Fig. 395.) (b) Plantaris muscle {M. plantaris). (Vide Spalteholz, Fig. 394.) The tendon of this small muscle has already been divided to permit of