DISSECTION OF THE HEAD AND NECK 311 {aba) Wlieat-like or triticeoiis cartilage [cartilago triticea). (b) Cricothyreoid iiiusele {31. cricoiliyreoideus). {ba) Straight part {pars recta) (0. T. anterior or oblique part). {bb) Oblique part {pars obliqua) (0. T. posterior or horizontal part). Study its origin, insertion, action, and innervation. (c) Middle cricothyreoid ligament {ligamentum cricothgreoideum [me- dium^) (0. T. middle portion of cricothyreoid membrane). This is really a part of the conus elasticus {vide infra). Reverse position of larynx on wooden block, so that posterior surface looks upward. Slit open oesophagus along middle line behind. Dissect the tunica mucosa cautiously otf the posterior aspect of the cricoid and arytaenoid cartilages, avoiding injury to the A. laryngea inferior and N. recurrens (between thyreoid and cricoid cartilages). Clean carefully the following muscles and ascertain their form, position, origin, insertion, action, and innervation: (a) Posterior cricoarytaenoid muscle (M. crieoarytaenoideus posterior). {b) Oblique arytaenoid muscle {M. arytaenoideus obliquus). {ba) Aryepiglottic muscle {31. aryepiglotticus) (0. T. aryteno- epiglottidean muscle). (c) Transverse arytaenoid muscle {31. arytaenoideus transversus). From this point on, the dissection is conducted differently on the two sides, that on the right being made especially for the muscles, that on the left for the vessels and nerves. Fasten larynx by its left side to the wooden block. Remove the M. cricothyreoideus of the right side. Cut through the right ligamentum hyothyreoideum laterale; disarticulate the right inferior cornu of thyreoid cartilage from the facies articularis thyreoidea on the side of the cricoid cartilage. Cut vertically through the lamina dextra of the thyreoid cartilage a little lat- eral from the anterior median line and remove the detached right lamina. Clean carefully and study the form, position, origin, inser- tion, action, and innervation of the following muscles: (a) Lateral crico-arytaenoid muscle {31. crieoarytaenoideus lateralis). {b) Thyreo-aiytaenoid muscle {31. thyreoarytaenoideus [externus]). (c) Thyreo-epiglottic muscle {31. thyreoepiglotticus) (0. T. thyro-epi- glottidean muscle). {d) Vocal muscle {31. vocalis) (0. T. internal thyro-arytenoid muscle). (This muscle is best seen in a cross-section throngh the whole larynx at the level of the true vocal cord. It lies medial from the