365 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD AND NECK taken place is desirable for a tliorougli understanding of the complex relations which exist. Descending Fibre Systems in Spinal Cord. (1) Pyramidal tracts (anterior and lateral), from cortex of central gyri of same and opposite side. (2) Anterior marginal bundle from nucleus fastigii. (3) Sulcomarginal fasciculus = path from superior colliculus of corpora quadrigemina. (4) Descending paths in fasciculus lateralis proprius. (rt) Tract from Deiters’s nucleus to lateral funiculus. {b) Tract from red nucleus of opposite side to lateral funiculus. (c) Tract from nuclei laterales superior, medius, inferior, to lateral funiculus. (5) Descending paths in posterior funiculus. (a) Descending limbs of bifurcation of posterior root-fibres. (b) Endogenous fibres of posterior funiculi (comma bundle, ven- tral area, oval centre, median triangle). (6) Other descending paths in lateral and anterior funiculi. (a) Endogenous fibres (tautomeric and heteromeric). Ascending Fibre Systems in Spinal Cord. (Vide Fig. 103.) (1) Direct continuation of ascending limbs of bifurcation of posterior root-fibres to nucleus funiculi gracilis, nucleus funiculi cuneati, and partly to cerebellum. Secondary path: from nuclei of dorsal funiculi, through decussa- tio lemniscorum to stratum interolivare lemnisei of opposite side, and then through lemniscus medialis to [ventro-] lateral nucleus of thalamus. Tertiary path: from ventrolateral nucleus of thalamus to cortex of central gyri (somaesthetic area). (2) Fibre systems leading from the end-stations of posterior root-fibres in the spinal cord to higher centres. {a) Cerebellospinal fasciculus {fasciculus cerebellospinalis) (0. T. direct cerebellar tract), from nucleus dorsalis of Clarke to cerebellum. (b) Gowers’s tract {fasciculus anterolateralis superficialis \^Gow- ersi]), from base of anterior horn to cerebellum. (c) From posterior horn upward in lateral limiting layer of gray matter, and in opposite anterior funiculus. (3) Fibre systems from some of cells in anterior horns upward in fascicu- lus anterior proprius and fasciculus lateralis i3roprius to formatio reticularis. Fibre Systems of Cerebral Nerves. Like the motor spinal nerves, the motor cerebral nerves arise from nuclei of origin {nuclei originis) in the brain-stem, the fibres leaving the central system to terminate in the muscles.