LABORATORY MANUAL OF HUMAN ANATOMY 212 Distinguish in it— (1) A deep or intenmiscular layer. (2) A snperticial or preiiiuscular layer. The suprasternal space (sometimes called Burns’ space) is situated between the superficial layer of the fascia colli and the preiiiuscular layer of the middle layer of the fascia colli. (Charpy.) Examine its contents. The interaponeurotic veins near the base of the neck are aspirated during inspiration. Hence this is the most dangerous area for the entrance of air into the veins during surgical operations. The Deep Part {Fascia praevertehralis). Note its two parts: (1) That extending’ from the anterior longitudinal ligament of the spine to the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes; it covers the prevertebral muscles proper (Mm. longi colli et capitis). Observe the relation of the N. sympathicus to this part. (2) That extending from the anterior to the posterior tubercles around the Mm. scaleni. Observe the relation of the N. phrenicus and of the Nn. cervicales to this part. The fascia praevertehralis is part of the great common sheath of the body-cavity, being for the neck what the endothoracic fascia, the transversalis fascia, and the pelvic fascia are for the other visceral cavities. (Fawcett.) The Visceral Sheath. Contents.—Thyreoid gland, trachea, oesophagus, and pharynx. Shape.—In cross-section, semicylindrical. Attachments. Behind, by lateral angles to the vertebral column; between these two attachments is left a retrovisceral or prevertebral space. This is of especial interest in the retropharyngeal region (postpharyngeal abscess, etc.). Above, to base of skull. Beloiv, extends into mediastinum. The Vascular Sheath. (a) Common sheath. (Note relation of ramus descendens N. hypo- glossi.) Observe attachment lateralward to deep layer of fascia colli and medialward to visceral sheath. The common sheath encloses b, c, and d. (b) Sheath for A. carotis (loose, to permit of pulsation). (c) Sheath for V. jugularis interna (dense, especially between artery and vein, septum vasorum). (d) Sheath for N. vagus (always satellite of artery, even in embryonic life, when vein is distant).