LABORATORY MANUAL OF HUMAN ANATOMY 152 vastus medialis and the M. vastus intermedius and follow it proxinialward. Observe the nerve to the M. articularis genu running along the medial margin of the M. vastus intermedius. Cut through the body of the M. vastus me- dialis transversely five centimetres above the patella and reflect it medialward. Examine carefully the origin of the M. vastus medialis. (be) Articular muscle of knee {M. articularis genu) (0. T. sub- crureus). Make a vertical incision through the M. vastus intermedius so as to expose the M. articularis genu. What is the relation of the tendon of insertion of the latter muscle to the capsule of the knee-joint? Study the relations of the various constituents of the M. quadriceps femoris to the patella and the ligamentum patellae. Examine the retinacula patellae mediale et laterale. When the patellar tendon is struck during life, what constituents of the M. quadriceps femoris contract most? Try it on yourself at home with the thigh exposed. MEDIAL SURFACE OF THIGH {FACIES MEDIALIS FEMORIS). Long Adductor Muscle (M. adductor longus). Study its form, position, origin, insertion, action, and inner- vation. Then divide it near its origin and reflect it lateralward. Avoid injury to the ramus anterior of the N. obturatorius. Deep Artery of Thigh (A. profunda femoris) and M. Pectineus. The beginning of this artery and some of its branches have already been studied in the femoral triangle of Scarpa. Sepa- rate the aponeurotic tendon of the M. adductor longus from the M. vastus medialis in front and the M. adductor magnus behind, and study the deeper portions of the deep artery and vein of the thigh {A. and V. profunda femoris). The perforating branches of the artery deserve especial attention (cf. Fig. 54, p. 137) : (a) First perforating artery (A. perforans prima). (aa) Superior nutrient artery of femur (A. nutricia femoris superior). {b) Second perforating artery {A. perforans secunda). (c) Third perforating artery {A. perforans tertia). *' (ca) Inferior nutrient artery of femur {A. nutricia femoris infe- rior).