102 LABORATOKY MANUAL OF HUMAN ANATOMY Study the ligaiiieiits of the sheaths of the fingers {ligamenta vaginalia digitorum manus) and the accessory ligaments. Of the latter, examine (1) the ring-ligaments {ligamenta annularia digi- torum manus) and (2) the cruciate ligaments (ligamenta crucial a digitorum manus). (Spalteholz, Fig. 363.) Cut through these ligaments and open up the digital sheaths of the tendons. The vincula tendinum are well seen on raising the tendons from the phalanges. (d) Flexor tendons and their insertions. (Fig. 38.) Cut through the ligamentum carpi transversum by a vertical incision at its middle, thus opening the carpal canal (canalis carpi). Examine the arrangement of the flexor tendons and dissect each free from the vagina tendinum. Compare the arrangement found with the description in your systematic text-book. Note the rela- tion of these tendons to the central compartment of the palm. Examine carefully the insertions of the tendons of the various flexor muscles. Where and how are the tendons of the superflcial flexor perforated by those of the deep flexor? What is meant by the chiasm of the tendons (chiasma tendinum) ? Fig. 38. Vincula, tendinum Tendon of the M. flexor digitorum sublimis Os metacarpale M. inter- volaris —il. lumbricalis Tendon of the M. flexor digitorum profundus The terminal parts of the flexor and extensor tendons of the right middle finger, seen from the radial side. (After Toldt, Anat. Atlas, Wien, 1900, 2 Aufl., p. 323, Fig. 565.) Follow the tendon of the M. flexor pollicis longus. Open the vagina tendinis and see how and where the tendon is inserted. What is its relation to the muscles of the thenar eminence? Lumbrical Muscles (Mm. lumbricales). Cut through the arcus volaris superficialis on the ulnar side distal from the deep volar ramus of the ulnar artery, and on the radial side at its junction with the superficial volar ramus of the radial artery. Reflect the arch distalward. Cut through the N. medianus at the level of the wrist and reflect it radialward and distalward, noting again its branches to the muscles of the thenar eminence and the two (radial) Mm. lumbricales. Cut through the M. flexor digitorum sublimis at middle of forearm and reflect it and its tendons distalward as far as possible. Examine thor- oughly the tendons of the M. flexor digitorum profundus and the