LABORATORY MANUAL OF HUMAN ANATOMY 358 (a) Decussation of brachium conjunctivum {decussatio brachii conjunctivi). (b) Dorsal decussation of tegmentum {decussatio teg- menti dorsalis) (German 0. T. fontaineartige Haubenkreuzung). (c) Ventral decussation of tegmentum {decussatio teg- menti ventralis). (9) Lateral fillet {lemniscus lateralis). (10) Medial fillet {lemniscus medialis). {B) Base of peduncle {basis pedunculi) (0. T. “foot” of cerebral peduncle, or pes pedunculi). (1) Pyramidal path {fasciculi cerebrospinales). (2) Temporal pontile path {fasciculus temporopontilis) (0. T. Turk’s bundle). (3) Frontal pontile path {fasciculus frontopontilis) (O. T. Ar- nold’s bundle). Between (A) and {B), study the substantia nigi’a {substantia nigra) (“ black substance”). In the corpora quadrigemina. (1) Zonal layer {stratum zonale). (2) Gray layer of superior colliculus {stratum griseum colliculi supe- rioris). (3) Nucleus of inferior colliculus {nucleus colliculi inferioris). (4) Deep white layer {stratum album profundum). Sections through Prosencephalon (Sectiones diencephali et telen- cephali). Take the portion still remaining of the right cerebral hemi- sphere; with a broad, thin, sharp brain-knife, make horizontal slices, one-half or one centimetre thick, down as far as the level of the commissura anterior cerebri. Make a drawing of the surface of each slice. (Vide Fig. 177.) The left half of the brain, thus far preserved intact, should now be divided, at the choice of the instructor, either into vertical frontal or into obliquely frontal sections, the latter according to the method of Pitres.^ All the oblique sections pass in planes parallel to the course of the sulcus centralis Eolandi. Place the four fingers of the left hand in the sulcus centralis [Eolandi], the hemisphere lying upon its medial surface with the polus occipitalis directed towards you. With the sharp, broad, thin brain-knife, make six sections from before backward, as indi- cated in the accompanying diagram. (Of. Fig. 170.) ^ Pitres, Recberebes sur les lesions du centre oval des hemispheres cerebraux, etudiees au point de vue des localisations cerebrales. Paris, 1877.