LABORATORY MANUAL OF HUMAN ANATOMY 2G8 anastomotic ramus connecting the facial with the glossopharyn- geal nerve {ramus anastomoticus cum N. glossopharyjtgeo). From which branch of the N. facialis does it come ? (yut tlirougli the A. carotis externa at a point just inferior to tlie terminal bifurcation into the A. temporalis superficialis and tlie A. maxil- laris interna; cut through also the A. auricularis posterior and the A. occipitalis at their origins and turn the A. carotis externa forward out of the way. Clean the M. stylopharyngeus, avoid- ing injury to the N. glossopharyngeus. Study the form, position, origin, action, and innervation of the muscle. The insertion can be seen best at a later stage of the dissection. Internal Carotid Artery (A. carotis interna). AVith bone-forceps cut through the base of the processus sty- loideus and reflect it, with the muscles attached to it, downward and forward. The vessels and nerves more medially situated may now be carefully dissected out of the tough fascia in which they lie and traced up to the base of the skull. Secure the pharyngeal rami of the N. vagus early; they will be found on the lateral surface of the A. carotis interna. Study with especial care the interval between the V. jugularis interna and the A. carotis interna just beneath the base of the skull. What is the level of origin of the A. carotis interna? How does it pass into the cranial cavity! Study carefully the compli- cated relations of its cervical portion. Why is its proximity to the pharynx and palatine tonsil emphasized in the text-books ! Smaller Arteries deep in the Neck. (Vide Spalteholz, Figs. 441 and 442.) (a) Ascending pharyngeal artery {A. pharyngea ascendens). Note its relations to the A. carotis interna and to the pharynx. Study the following branches: {aa) Pharyngeal rami { rami pharyngei). {ah) Posterior meningeal {A. meningea posterior). {ac) Inferior tympanic (A. tympanica inferior). {b) Ascending palatine branch of external maxillary (A. palatina as- cendens) (0. T. inferior palatine). (c) Tonsillar ramus of external maxillary {ramus tonsillaris) (0. T. ton- sillitic artery). Internal Jugular Vein (V. jugularis interna) and its Tributaries. With what cerebral sinus is the internal jugular vein con- tinuous! What are the relations of the vein in the jugular fora- men! Where is the superior bulb of the jugular vein {hulhus