175 DISSECTION OE THE LOWER EXTKEMITY bones, and a lateral pillar, foi'ined )>y the calcanenin, the cuboid, and the two lateral metatarsal bones. (b) Transverse arch. Where is this arch to be lound and what function does it subserve'? (c) Lateral arch. This arch is convex laterally and extends from the heel to the base of the little toe. Determine in what directions pressure exerted from above is radiated Ijy this arrangement of the arches. What factors assist in the maintenance of the arch of the foot? Study, in this connection, especially the tendon of the M. peronaeus. What is flat-foot? Where is the spring of the foot? In flat-foot the line of tenderness generally corre- sponds to the line of ChoparCs joint. Examine the medial margin of the foot and determine the position of the following: (a) Sustentaculum tali. {b) Tuberositas ossis navicularis. (c) Line of calcaneo-astragaloid joint {articulatio talocalcanea). {d) Line of tarsometatarsal joints {articulationes tarsometatarseae). {e) Lines of metatarsophalangeal joints {articulationes metatar so pha- langeae). Examine upon the lateral margin of the foot— (a) Trochlear process {processus trochlearis), not always present. {b) Line of calcaneocuboid joint {articulatio calcaneocuboidea). In con- nection with Chopart’s amputation it is important to know the structures which serve as guides in flnding the mid-tarsal joint. (c) Tuberositas ossis metatarsalis. What is its relation to the articula- tiones tarsometatarseae? What is Lisfranc’s ligament? (Vide Cunningham’s Systematic Anatomy, p. 1218.) Examine now the skin covering the sole of the foot. Note its general characteristics and compare it with the skin of the palm of the hand. How does it compare with the skin over the dorsum of the foot! Which is the more mobile, and which is the thinner? Note the callosities that form about the heel and the ball of the toes. In standing which parts of the sole come in contact with the floor? The foot should be firmly fixed and the toes extended, thus rendering the plantar aponeurosis tense. Make the following incisions: (1) A perpendicular incision extending down the middle of the sole. (2) A transverse incision across the sole at the clefts of the toes. (3) A medial incision extending the length of each toe. Reflect the flaps of skin and study the fascia beneath.