LABORATORY MANUAL OF HUMAN ANATOMY 396 V eins. {pb) (pah) Cochlear ramus {ramus cochleae). (pac) Arterial glomeruli of cochlea {glomeruli arteriosi cochleae). Internal auditoiy veins {Vv. auditivae internae). Of what are they tributaries'? {pba) Spiral vein of modiolus {V. spiralis modioli). ipbaa) Prominent vessel {vas prominens). {pbb) Vestibular veins {Vv. vestibulares). {pbc) Vein of aqueduct of vestibule {V. aquaeductus vestibuli). {pbd) Vein of canaliculus of cochlea {V. canaliculus cochleae). Fig. 197. Spiral organ of Corti of the ductus cochlearis in transverse or radial section. rc, medullated distal processes of bipolar nerve cells in ganglion spirale ; /, foramen nervosum in labium tympanicum giving passage to a bundle of the cochlear nerve fibres; th, tympanal covering of lamina basilaris; vs, vas spirale; iS, internal supporting cells which on the left side are continuous with the epithelium of the sulcus spiralis ; p, internal pillar with an inner basal cell (6) next to it; p', external pillar with its external basal cell, h'; 1, 2, 3, Deiters’ supporting cells with phalangeal processes arriving at the surface of Corti’s organ, there attached to the lamina reticularis, r; II, Hensen’s sup- porting cells which diminish in height toward the right side of the figure and are continuous with C, the cells of Claudius; k, epithelial cells of the so-called “ layer of granules” ; i, internal hair cell, the upper end of which is hidden by the “head” of the internal pillar; i', hairs of internal hair cell; e, external hair cell; e', e', e', hairs of three external hair cells ; n, ri'- to n^, various cross-sections of the spiral cord of nerve distribution ; the ‘‘ tunnel cord ’’ extends from to n- as a radial bundle ; t, tunnel space; N, Nuel’s space. (After G. Retzius. from A. Rauber’s text-book, 1898, S. 818, Fig. 713.) The student should now make careful drawings of sections made in various directions through macerated temporal bones, labelling correctly the dilferent structures.