LABORATORY MANUAL OF HUMAN ANATOMY 360 The frontal section passes through the gyrus centralis anterior, island, temporal gyri, corpus callosum, cauda nuclei caudati, thalamus, middle piece of nucleus lentiformis, anterior part of lenticulo-optic part of capsula interna, capsula externa, and claustrum. The first parietal section passes through the gyrus centralis posterior, island, temporal gyri, corpus callosum, cauda nuclei caudati, posterior end of thalamus and of nucleus lentiformis, posterior end of lenticulo- optic part of capsula interna, capsula interna, capsula externa, and claustrum. The pediculoparietal section passes through the lobuli parietalis superior et inferior, temporal gyri, corpus callosum, most posterior part of thalamus, and cauda nuclei caudati. The occipital section passes through the cortex and white matter of the lobus occipitalis. In addition to the horizontal sections and frontal sections above mentioned, the student should study, if possible (perhaps from the anatomical museum), two other sections: (1) Section through the brain in a plane passing parallel to the course of the brachia conjunctiva and through them. (Cf. Spalteholz, Fig. 744.) (2) Section through the brain in a plane parallel to the course of the cerebral peduncles and through them. (Cf. Spalteholz, Fig. 745.) Fig. 171. Frontal section through the human brain-stem. BATh, large bundle of fibres which, coming from the nucleus ruber and its capsule, runs upward, lateralward, and dorsalward to the ventral part of the thalamus to the reticular layer, to the lamina medullaris lateralis, etc., where the fibres become so interwoven with others that they cannot be fol- lowed farther; Ford's Feld II, dorsal white matter of regio subthalamica. (After A. Forel, Arch. f. Psychiat., Berl., Bd. vii., 1877, Taf. vii.. Fig. 10.) Drawings should be made of all these sections, and the fol- lowing structures designated when met: Sections of Hypothalamus (Sectiones hypothalami). (1) Hypothalamic nucleus, or Luys’s body {nucleus hypothalamicus [cor- pus Luysi]) (0. T. subthalamic nucleus). (2) Gray part of hypothalamus {pars grisea hypothalami).