126 LABORATORY MANUAL OF HUMAN ANATOMY the Nn. clunium inferiores in order that they may later be traced to their source. The few coccygeal arteries passing through the ligamentum sacrotuberosmn may be sacrificed. The muscle can now be partially reflected, but is still attached by blood-vessels and nerves entering its under surface. These should now be carefully cleaned. Having studied these last structures, they may be cut away, leaving a small piece of muscle connected to each. The whole muscle may then be reflected and its insertion examined. Clean and study the following: Bursae. (Vide Spalteliolz, Figs, 385, 386.) (a) Bursa troclianterica M. glutaei maximi. (b) Bursa ischiadica M. glutaei maximi. (c) Bursae glutaeofemorales. Muscles. (a) Gluteus medius muscle (31. glutaeus medius). (b) Piriform muscle (31. piriformis). Note the relation it bears to the foramen ischiadicum majus. (c) Tendon of obturator internus muscle (31. obturator internus), pass- ing through the foramen ischiadicum minus and having the Mm. gemelli superior and inferior above and below it. (d) Quadratus femoris muscle (31. quadratus femoris). (e) Smallest adductor muscle (31. adductor minimus) (0. T. upper adductor magnus). (/) Tendon of the obturator externus muscle (31. obturator externus). Blood-vessels. (Fig. 48.) (a) Above the M. piriformis: (aa) Superior gluteal artery (A. glutaea superior). (aaa) Upper ramus (ramus superior). (aab) Lower ramus (ramus inferior). (ab) Superior gluteal veins (Vv. glutaeae superiores). (b) Below the M. piriformis: (ba) Inferior gluteal artery (A. glutaea inferior) (0, T. sciatic artery). (baa) Coccygeal branch, passing inward between the greater and lesser sacrosciatic ligaments to reach the integument and fascia in the region of the coccyx. Some twigs derived from this have already been cut in reflecting the muscle. (bab) Companion artery of the great sciatic nerve (A. comitans N. iscJiiadici). (bac) Artery to the quadratus femoris. This arteiw will serve as a guide for the nerve to this muscle in the further dissection. (bb) Inferior gluteal veins (Fr. glutaeae inferiores). (be) Internal pudendal artery (A. pudenda interna). The pudic vessels can be seen emerging from the pelvis through the foramen ischiadicnin majus and immediately re-enter- ing through the foramen ischiadicum minus. No