LABORATORY MANUAL OF HUMAN ANATOMY 476 formis. It may pass in front of the ileum, then giving a special form and disposition to the meso-appendix. The fourth branch passes to the left along the ileum. The following arteries may occasionally be derived from the superior mesenteric: (1) Hepatic artery {A. hepatica), or right branch of the proper hepatic {ramus dexter arteriae hepaticae propriae). The importance of the anomalous origin of these arteries will be discussed when the dissection of the hepatoduodenal ligament is made. (2) Cystic artery {A. cystica). (3) Coronary left gastric artery, or artery of stomach {A. gastrica sinistra). (4) Left colic artery {A. colica sinistra). (5) Superior hemorrhoidal {A. haemorrhoidalis superior). What relation does the superior mesenteric artery bear to the omphalomesenteric artery in the embryo! Does Meckel’s diverticulum, when present, receive any branches from this artery! Superior Mesenteric Vein (V. mesenterica superior) and its Tribu- taries. (Vide Spalteholz, Fig. 497.) This vein accompanies the artery. Follow its course until it joins the splenic vein (F. splenica). The following tributaries may be found: {a) Intestinal veins (Vv. intestinales). (b) Right gastro-epiploic vein (F. gastro-epiploica dextra). (c) Pancreatic veins (Vv. pancreaticae). (d) Ileocolic vein (F. ileocolica). (e) Right colic veins {Vv. colicae dextrae). if) Middle colic vein (F. colica media). (g) Pancreaticoduodenal veins {Vv. pancreaticoduodenales). {h) Duodenal veins {Vv. duodenales). AVhere the intestine is applied directly to the posterior abdominal wall without the interposition of peritoneum, an anastomosis is established between the systemic and portal circulations. These anastomoses have been well established in pathological cases. What do you understand by the veins of Retzius ? Superior Mesenteric Plexus (Plexus mesentericus superior). (Vide Toldt, Fig. 1332.) A dense plexus of sympathetic nerves surrounds the superior mesenteric artery, and filaments from it accompany the different branches of the artery to the gut. Dissect out carefully these filaments and determine whether they join in the spaces between