65 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY to the vessels and nerves beneath. The coracoclavicular fascia is now exposed. What are its attachments? How does it form a sheath for the M. snbclavius? Divide the anterior layer of the sheath transversely close to the clavicle and expose the M. sub- clavius; observe the N. subclavius entering the deep surface of the latter; with the handle of the scalpel demonstrate the attach- ment of the posterior layer of the sheath behind the muscle. The portion of the fascia extending between the clavicle and the M. pectoralis minor is often called the costocoracoid mem- brane.’’ Piercing this portion of the fascia find the following: (a) Acromiothoracic arteiy (A. acromiothoracalis) (0. T. thoracic axis). {aa) Acromial ramus {ramus acromialis). (ab) Acromial network {rete acromiale). {ac) Deltoid ramus {R. deltoideus) (0. T. humeral branch). {ad) Pectoral rami {Rr. pectorales). {b) Acromiothoracic vein (F. acromiothoracalis). (c) Cephalic vein (F. cephalica). {d) Lateral anterior thoracic nerve {N. thoracalis anterior lateralis). Divide the pars sternocostalis of the M. pectoralis major about its middle and reflect it lateralward and medialward. Pre- serve the branches of the anterior thoracic nerves entering the deep surface of the muscle; some of them have already passed through the M. pectoralis minor. Note that the sheath of the M. pectoralis minor is formed by a splitting of the fascia coracoclavicularis and that the fascia is continued from the lower margin of the muscle to become continuous with the fascia axillaris. Smaller Pectoral Muscle (M. pectoralis minor). Clean the external surface of the muscle by removing the an- terior layer of the investing fascia. Examine carefully its form, position, origin, insertion, action, and innervation, but do not reflect the muscle until later. Axillary Blood-vessels. Remove the so-called costocoracoid membrane,—viz., that portion of the fascia coracoclavicularis which extends between the clavicle and the upper border of the M. pectoralis minor. The fossa axillaris may now be entered from above. Remove any visible areolar tissue and fat and study carefully in this situation the relations of the axillary artery and vein to one another and to the large bundle of nerves. Note that all are