174 LABORATORY MANUAL OF HUMAN ANATOMY medialis and tlie ligamentmn deltoidemii; the other, descending, is attached to the processus mediaJis tuberis calcanei. The tendon of the long flexor of the great toe is contained within a special sheath, altogether independent of the ligainen- tmn laciniatmn. The fibres of this sheath arise from the medial tip of the sulcus M. flexoris hallucis longi and from the summit of the sustentaculum tali. They terminate upon the medial tip of the same sulcus and the medial face of the os calcaneum about one centimetre below the sustentaculum tali. The vessels run above this sheath covered by the ligament, but generally the medial and plantar arteries are separated from each other by a septum. Detach the ligament from the malleolus medialis and dissect it towards the os calcaneum, determining its exact attachment and the position of the septa above mentioned. Make a drawing of these structures at this stage of the dissection. PLANTAR REGION OF THE FOOT {REGIO PLAN- TARIS PEDIS). Before beginning this dissection, review the anatomy of the bones entering into the formation of the foot. Note the number and the exact position of each. (Vide Spalteholz, Figs. 198-99.) Study in the bony foot and upon your subject the following: Arches. [a) Longitudinal arch. This arch extends from the heel to the meta- tarsophalangeal joints. It is capped by the talus and may be divided into— (aa) A posterior limb, formed by the os calcaneum and the pos- terior part of the talus. Note the thickness and the strength of this posterior limb, which serves as a point of attachment for the tendo calcaneus [Achillis]. Study the skeletons of the white, the negro, and the monkey and compare the relative lengths of this posterior limb. {ah) An anterior limb. This limb is formed by the remaining bones of the tarsus and metatarsus. Examine a model of a foot in which the joint-cavities are represented, and note the amount of synovial membrane found in the joints of the anterior limb. These membranes produce an elastic resistance to any force applied to the anterior limb of the longitudinal arch. Shocks transmitted through it to the leg, pelvis, and trunk are much lessened by this arrangement. The anterior limb is subdivided into a medial pillar, formed by the talus, the navicular, the three cuneiform, and the three medial metatarsal