ABDOMEN AND PELVIS 519 DISSECTION OF THE MALE PELVIS. Before beginning the dissection of the pelvic viscera, review the anatomy of the bones entering into the formation of the pelvis. Compare the male and female pelves, noting the differ- ences in the diameters, angles of inclination, size and general structure of the bones. Before disturbing any relations examine the position of each viscus. Compare the positions found in the adult with those in the child. Note the peritoneal relations of each viscus and study the peritoneal folds. Peritoneal Folds. (Vide Spalteholz, Fig. 667.) (a) Transverse vesical fold {plica vesicalis transversa). This fold disappears when the bladder is distended. (b) Pubovesical fold {plica pubovesicalis). (c) Rectovesical fold {plica rectovesicalis). The rectovesical folds are raised by the obliterated umbilical arteries. They form the lateral boundaries of a deep excavation between the bladder and the rectum {excavatio rectovesicalis). In the folds will be found the rectovesical muscles {Mm. rectovesi- cales), which are composed of smooth muscle-fibres derived from the walls of the neighboring viscera. {d) Mesorectnm. A fold of peritoneum connecting the first part of the rectum to the posterior wall of the pelvis. Hypogastric Plexus (Plexus hypogastricus). (Vide Toldt, Figs. 1331 and 1333-) This sympathetic plexus rests upon the body of the fifth lumbar vertebra between the common iliac arteries. Establish its relation to the plexus aorticus and the ganglia lumbalia. In- feriorly it divides into two parts, which accompany the hypo- gastric arteries into the pelvis. Dissect out the plexus, trace it downward into the pelvis, and dissect out the following plexuses and nerves derived from it: {a) Middle hemorrhoidal plexus {plexus haemorrhoidalis medius). {b) Prostatic plexus {plexus prostaticus). (c) Deferential plexus {plexus defeventialis). {d) Vesical plexus {plexus vesicalis). {da) Superior vesical nerves {Nn. vesicales superiores). {db) Inferior vesical nerves {Nn. vesicales inferiores). (e) Cavernous plexus of penis {plexus cavernosus penis). {ea) Greater cavernous nerve of penis {N. cavernosus penis major). {eb) Lesser cavernous nerves of penis {Nn. cavernosi penis minor es).