80 LABORATORY MANUAL OF HUMAN ANATOMY {eah) Nerve to M. biceps bi’achii. [eac) Nerve to M. bracliialis. {eh) Lateral cutaneous nerve of forearm {N. cutaneus anti- brachii lateralis), already studied. (See Fig. 24.) Note the cutaneous ramus given off above the elbow to supply the skin over the lateral region of the elbow. Muscles. The muscles of the anterior compartment should now be thoroughly cleaned. Study the form, position, origin, insertion, action, and inner- vation of each. {a) Biceps muscle of upper arm {M. biceps brachii). {aa) Long head {caput longum). The exact origin will be examined later. Observe the prolongation of the syno- vial membrane of the shoulder-joint in the sulcus inter- tubercularis. It is called the intertubercular mucous sheath {vagina mucosa intertubercularis). {ab) Short head {caput breve). The insertion, the lacertus fibrosus, and the bursae related to the tendon of insertion will be examined a little further on. Comparative anatomy indicates that the M. biceps brachii is really a quadrigeminal muscle,—coracoradial, coracocubital, glenoradial, and glenocubital (Krause). {b) Coracobrachial muscle {M. coracohrachialis). Find the bursa M. coracohrachialis. Note that the M. coraco- brachialis really consists of two distinct bundles; these fuse at their two extremities, but not in the middle, thus forming a tunnel three centimetres long for the N. musculocutaneus. Note that the M. coracohrachialis in the arm eoiTesponds to the ad- ductor system of muscles in the thigh. Find the fibrous arch extending from the insertion of the tendon of the muscle to the inferior border of the tuberculum minus (arch of Struthers). (c) Brachial muscle {M. bracliialis) (0. T. bracliialis anticus). How is it related to the medial and lateral bicipital sulci'? Bend of the Elbow (Cubital Fossa). (Fig. 24.) Dissect in the depth between the M. brachialis and the M. brachioradialis for the radial nerve and the radial recurrent artery. Find the branch of the latter which perforates the sep- tum intermusculare laterale to join the rete articulare cubiti, thus establishing an anastomosis with the A. profunda brachii. Seek the branches from the radial nerve to the M. brachioradialis and the M. extensor carpi radial is longus. Compare the bend of the elbow with the popliteal space. Study the lacertus fibrosus (0. T. semilunar fascia) carefully and examine its relations. Why are these of surgical impor- tance? What is the shape of the space in front of the elbow? How is it bounded? In this space examine the following: