106 LABORATORY MANUAL OF HUMAN ANATOMY DORSUM OF WRIST AND HAND. Radial Artery and Veins. Study— {a) Radial artery {A. radialis). (aa) Dorsal carpal ramus {ramus carpeus dorsalis) (0. T. pos- terior radial carpal). (ah) First dorsal metacarpal artery {A. metacarpea dorsalis 1.). (aba) Aa. digitales dorsales. (1) A. dorsalis pollicis ulnaris. (2) A. dorsalis indicis. (ac) Dorsal digital arteiy to radial side of thumb {A. dorsalis pollicis radialis). Fig. 39. Tendon of the M.fiexor digitomm sublimi Tendon of the M.fiexor digitomm. profundua^ M. flexor carpi ulnaris A. ulnaris— N. ulnaris Ramus dorsalis manus—i of the N. ulnaris Discus articularis.A Capitulum ulnae A Tendon of the M. extensor carpi idnaris.^ Tendon of the M. extensor digiti-^ V. proprius Dig. carpi dorsale Lig. carpi volare ./ Tendon of the M. palinaris longus N. medianus . Tendon of the M. flexor earpi radialis i.icyggirii-'flgvTendon of the M. fle.wr jiollicis longuL Ramus volaris superficialis A. radialis —M. abductor pollicis longus i-M. €.vtensor pollicis brevis ’extensor carpi radialis longus extensor carpi radialis brevis J/. extensor pollicis longus ‘Tendons of the Mm. e.xtensor digitomm communis and extensor indicis proprius Cross-section of the distal extremity of the right forearm. Surface distal to the cut. (After Toldt, Anat. Atlas, Wien, 1900, 2 Aufl., p. 621, Fig. 999.) {ad) Dorsal carpal rete {rete carpi dorsale) (0. T. posterior carpal rete). {ada) Dorsal metacarpal arteries {Aa. metacarpeae dor- sales 11., 111., IV.) (0. T. dorsal interosseous arteries). Note how each of these divides into two dorsal digital arteries {Aa. digitales dorsales) for adja- cent margins of the second to the fifth finger. Find the artery passing directly from the ulnar side of the rete carpi dorsale towards the ulnar margin of the little finger. {h) Radial veins {Vv. radiales). Dorsal Ligament of Wrist (Ligamentum Carpi dorsale) (O. T. Pos- terior Annular Ligament). How does it become attaclied radialward and ulnarward? How is the space beneath it subdivided! To what are the various septa attached! Open up the following six compartments and study their contents.