297 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD AND NECK CAROTID AND INFRAORBITAL CANALS (CANALIS CAEOTICUS ET CANALIS INFRAORBITALIS). Carotid Canal (Canalis caroticus). Remove the inferior wall of the carotid canal with strong forceps. Do not disturb the position of the Eustachian tube. Inside the carotid canal study the following: (а) Internal carotid artery (A. carotis interna). (Cf. Spalteholz, Fig. 442.) (aa) Caroticotympanic ramus {ramus caroticotympanicus) (0. T. tympanic branch). (б) Venous plexus of internal carotid {plexus venosus caroticus internus). (c) Internal carotid nerve of sympathetic system {N. caroticus internus). (Cf. Spalteholz, Figs. 773 and 779.) (ca) Internal carotid plexus {plexus caroticus internus). {caa) Deep petrosal nerve {N. petrosus profundus) (0. T. large, deep petrosal nerve), which runs to the pterygoid canal (0. T. Vidian canal) and unites with the N. petrosus superficialis major to form the nerve of the pterygoid canal {N. canalis ptery- goidei [F^d^^]) (0. T. Vidian nerve). Infraorbital Canal (Canalis infraorbitalis). Remove the M. temporalis and the upper head of the M. pterygoideus externus; saw through the squama temporalis and the ala magna oss. sphenoidalis, beginning on the cut margin of the skull just above the meatus acusticus externus and passing obliquely downward and forward towards the medial end of the tissura orbitalis superior (0. T. sphenoidal fissure). The saw-cut should enter the fissura orbitalis superior just lateral from the foramen rotundum. Make a second saw-cut from the cut margin of the cranial wall, just above the anterior margin of the ala magna oss. sphenoidalis, downward into the fissura orbitalis superior, to meet the first saw-cut. Remove the bone thus freed and with bone-forceps remove what remains of the ala magna lateral from the foramen rotundum, keeping intact, however, the entire bony margin of this aperture. Next open the canalis infraorbitalis with bone-forceps (or chisel if necessary). Study the following: {a) Maxillary nerve {N. maxillaris) (0. T. superior maxillary). (Fig. 115, p. 274.) Trace it from the ganglion semilunare [Gasseri] to its termination.