INTRODUCTION 99 scalpels should never be used; even the smallest ones must be very carefully employed for such dissection, or important struct- ures will be injured. The scalpel with the straight edge and sharp point has a use entirely different from that of the belly-bladed knife. Although the blade of the knife with the straight edge may be quite long, one uses only the point of the knife in dissection; the action of such a knife is, therefore, much more limited than is that of the belly-bladed scalpel, and it should be used in making only the smaller, less extensive cuts. Students are frequently seen try- ing unsuccessfully to make large incisions with such knives, especially when their convex blades are dull. The scalpel with straight edge and sharp point is especially valuable in the dis- section of the viscera, sense organs, blood-vessels, and nerves. It may well be employed whenever a small, careful cut is to be made, and it will be found of the greatest convenience when the student is working in corners or in deep fossae. The dissector should early learn the right way to hold a scal- pel. The manner of holding in the dissecting-room is quite different from that in the autopsy-room of the pathologist. In the former case and in surgical work the knife is to be held “ like a pen,” between the thumb and the first two fingers, the handle of the scalpel pointing obliquely upward. In the post-mortem room the pathologist usually holds his knife in his fist,” the handle of the scalpel being raised only slightly above the level of the blade and resting in the palm of the hand. The only time the dissector in the laboratory of human anatomy is permitted to hold the knife ‘‘ in his fist” is when he makes a long incision through tough skin; in all other circumstances the knife should be held ‘ ‘ like a pen. ’ ^ The thumb, index and middle fingers should alone be used in holding the knife ‘‘ like a pen.” The ring-finger should not be permitted to touch the knife, no matter how much the dissector is inclined thereto. Only by following this rule can the anatomi- cal workman secure the necessary freedom and acquire the deli- cacy of movement requisite to good work. The ring-finger and the little finger will be found very useful in making tissues tense, in retracting tissues, or in displacing them to the side. The scalpel should be grasped by the thumb and fingers at about the junction of blade and handle, certainly not high up on the handle, certainly not far down on the blade. In making careful cuts the hand should be supported upon its ulnar margin. This support permits of greater precision; the cut desired may