LABORATORY MANUAL OF HUMAN ANATOMY 230 the occipital artery (A. occipitalis) to be seen in the triangle? Dissect out the portion of the accessory nerve {N. accessorius) belonging to the triangle. Note its exact j^oint of emergence from the substance of the M. sternocleidomastoideus. Find the rami musculares of the plexus cervical is which run across the triangle to disappear beneath the anterior margin of the M. trapezius. How are they related in position to the N. accesso- rius? Do you find any large cutaneous nerve of the cervix {N. cutaneus cervicis) ? Broad Muscles of the Back (First Layer). (Vide Fig. 5, p. 49.) (a) Trapezius muscle {M. trapezius). After its surface has been thor- oughly cleaned, in conjunction with the dissector of the upper ex- tremity, the exact origin and insertion of the M. trapezius are to be established. Test the effect of contraction of its various por- tions, fixing alternately the head and the shoulder girdle. With the dissector of the upper limb, reflect the muscle and dissect the structures on its deep surface. Divide the attachment to the linea nuchae superior and protuberantia occipitalis externa and cut through it about one centimetre from the cervical vertebral spines and five centimetres from the thoracic spines, taking care that the knife does not injure the underlying structures. Turn the muscle lateralward and allow the dissector of the upper limb to work out the distribution of the N. accessorius and the nerves from the' cervical plexus going to the M. trapezius. Determine the origin and distribution of the A. cervicalis superficialis. In your cadaver does it come from the truncus thyreocervicalis or from the A. trans- versa colli? (b) Broadest muscle of back {M. latissimus dorsi). The dissector of the arm has worked this muscle out and the dissector of the head should review his knowledge of it. (c) Elevator muscle of scapula {M. levator scapulae) (0. T. levator anguli scapulae) and neighboring vessels and nerves. Ex- amine the M. levator scapulae and the neiwes on its surface (from the plexus cervicalis). Lift the muscle carefully and find beneath it— (ca) Descending branch {ramus descendens) of the A. transversa colli, often called the “ posterior scapular artery.” (cb) Dorsal nerve of scapula {N. dorsalis scapulae) (0. T. nerve to the rhomboids). Note the twigs from this nerve to the M. levator scapulae. Establish the exact origin and insertion of the muscle and test its action. Expose the scapular portion of the inferior belly {venter inferior) of the M. omobyoideus, and note the position of the A. transversa scapulae (0. T. suprascapular, or transversalis humeri) and the suprascapular nerve {N. suprascapularis) and