129 DISSECTION OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY thigh lateralward. Pull the M. glutaeus maximus well outward and divide its aponeurosis of insertion downward for a distance of five to seven centimetres. Grasping the cut edge of the fascia lata just separated from the M. glutaeus maximus, pull it out- ward and dissect in the interval between it and the M. glutaeus medius. By traction upon this band the deep surface of the tensor muscle of the fascia lata (M. tensor fasciae latae) (0. T. tensor vaginae femoris) may be exposed. It is covered by a layer of fascia. The student should now find— (a) Terminal branch of superior gluteal nerve, piercing the anterior bor- der of the M. glutaeus minimus and entering the M. tensor fasciae latae. (h) Ascending branch of lateral circumflex artery {ramus ascendens A. circumflexae femoris lateralis). Separate the M. glutaeus medius from the M. glutaeus mini- mus bv passing the fingers between their posterior borders. en completely isolated, divide the M. glutaeus medius five centimetres above the trochanter major and reflect the two parts upward and downward respectively. Carefully preserve the vessels and nerves between the two muscles and clean them thor- oughly. What vessels and nerves are exposed? Trace each to its termination. Can vou find— (a) Bursa trochanterica M. glutaei medii posterior? (5) Bursa trochanterica M. glutaei medii anterior? Where is the bursa M. piriformis? Detach the M. glutaeus minimus from its origin and reflect it downward. Observe the capsular ligament of the hip-joint {cap- sula articularis). Where is the bursa trochanterica M. glutaei minimi? Find the reflected head of the M. rectus femoris. What is the action of the muscles supplied by the superior gluteal nerve ? POPLITEAL SPACE {FOSSA POP LI TEA). Before beginning the dissection, review the surface anatomy of this space, noting— (a) Lateral hamstring, formed by the biceps muscle, (b) Medial hamstring, formed by the tendons of the semitendinosus and semimembranosus muscles. (c) Tendon of adductor magnus muscle. Can you trace it as far down- ward as the adductor tubercle? In what position of the leg can this tendon be outlined most easily? 9