307 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD AND NECK Observe also (1) the communicatiou of Arnold’s nerve {ramus auricularls N. vagi) with tlie trunk of tlie N. facialis, a little above the foramen st3domastoidemn; (2) a little branch, inconstant, which sometimes runs to join the sympathetic plexus upon the A. meningea media; it is called the external superficial petrosal nerve. Intermediate Nerve of Wrisberg (N. intermedins) (O. T. Sensory Part of Facial Nerve). To this the geniculate ganglion belongs. Study— (a) Larger superficial petrosal nerve {N. petrosus superficialis major). This carries sensory fibres from the N. intermedins by way of the Vidian nerve to the sphenopalatine ganglion. (b) Cord of tympanum {chorda tympani). (Fig. 133.) This carries secretory fibres (sympathetic'?) to the Gl. submaxil- laris and Gl. sublingualis and taste fibres from the tongue to the ganglion geniculi of the N. intermedins. Read carefully the com- plicated course of the chorda tympani and follow it as well as possible in the specimen and in models. Acoustic Nerve (N. acusticus) (O. T. Auditory Nerve). Note its position as regards the N. facialis in the meatus acus- ticus internus. Observe that it is formed by the fusion of two roots,—one from the vestibule {radix vestibularis), the other from the cochlea {radix cocMearis). The former root carries sensory fibres from the vestibule and semicircular canals and is concerned with the maintenance of equilibrium of the head and eyes; the latter root carries the impulses concerned in the sense of hearing and in auditory reflexes. LARYNX. Examine the position and relations of the larynx. Note that to its presence in the neck is due the laryngeal prominence, or “ Adam’s apple” {prominentia laryngea, pomum Adami). With a model of the larynx and the specimen before you, read a general description of its construction before beginning the dissection. Examine the relation of the larynx to the tongue. Study the following: (a) Median glosso-epiglottic fold {plica glosso-epiglottica mediana) (0. T. middle glosso-epiglottidean fold, or fraenum of the epiglottis).