525 ABDOMEN AND PELVIS This ampulla is the ovoid enlargement in the lower part of the reetimi, and serves as a reservoir for faeces. It is sometimes spoken of as the faecal bladder.” Note the curves in the frontal direction, produced by lateral furrows, which correspond to the transverse folds of the rectum {plicae transversales recti). What is the rectococcygeal muscle {M. rectococcygeus) ? The rectum will be opened and its interior studied later. Urinary Bladder (Vesica urinaria). (Vide Figs. 279, 281, and Spalte- holz, Figs. 641, 642.) Examine the position and form (Fig. 280) of the bladder. To complete this study make use of models and cross-sections. How do the position and form of the bladder differ in the two sexes'? How does the adult bladder differ in position and form from that of the child? Prom what does the bladder develop embryologi- cally? (Cf. Kollmann, Lehrbuch der Entwickelungsgeschichte des Menschen, p. 348.) Study the following features: (a) Apex of bladder {apex vesicae). (b) Body of bladder {corpus vesicae). (c) Fundus of bladder {fundus vesicae). {d) Neck of bladder {collum vesicae). What is the urachus ? Pelvic Part of Ureter (Pars pelvina ureteris). (Vide Spalteholz, Figs. 640, 641). Isolate the ureter as it enters the pelvis at the bifurcation of the common iliac artery and trace it downward to the bladder. Determine its relation to the plica rectovesicalis. What are the relative positions of the obliterated hypogastric artery and the ureter in this plica? As the ureter is traced forward, determine its relations to the ductus deferens and the vesicula seminalis. At what angle does it pierce the bladder wall? Prostate (Prostata). (Vide Figs. 227, 279, and Spalteholz, Figs. 640, 643» 653, 655, 656, 677.) Note the general size, shape, and position of this organ. Determine its relations to the neighboring structures. Review the anatomy of the capsule of the prostate. Avoiding injury to the venous plexus surrounding the organ, study the following: Lobes. {a) Right lobe {lobus dexter). {b) Left lobe {lobus sinister).