194 LABORATORY MANUAL OR HUMAN ANATOMY aud the luoutli-cavity {cavum oris) containing the tongue (lin- gua) and the fauces. In the neck {colliim), note in front the laryngeal prominence {prominentia laryngea) ((). T. Adam’s apple, pomum Adami); beneath it, a depression {fossa jugular is) ; above the clavicles, the supraclavicular fossae {fossae supraclavicidares majores) ; running obliquely upward and backward from the junction of the clavicle with the sternum, an elevated area {regio sterno- cleidomastoidea). Make three outline sketches of the head and neck of your subject, corresponding to the positions indicated in Figs. 281, 282, 283 of Spalteholz’s Atlas. Outline the boundaries of all the regions and print in neatly the names of the regions. Be sure that you understand the reason of the name for each region. What are meant by the following terms: nasion, glabella^ inion, ophryon, maximum occipital point, bregma, lambda, aste- rion, stephanion, gonionf How is the cephalic index deter- mined? Is the head of your subject mesaticephalic or does it show any tendency towards dolichocephaly or brachycephaly ? (Cf. Cunningham’s Systematic Anatomy, p. 173.) Examine closely the skin {cutis) and hairs {pili) of the head and neck, first with the naked eye and afterwards through a lens. Is the skin equally movable in all parts ? What are capilli, super- cilia, cilia, barba, tragi, and vibrissaef Make a sketch of the front and of the back of the head and neck, illustrating the hair streams {flumina pilorum) and vortices {vortices pilorum). De- monstrate the orifices of sweat-glands {pori sudoriferi). THE SCALP AND SUPERFICIAL STRUCTURES IN THE TEMPORAL REGION. Place a block under the head. Shave the scalp carefully. Make an incision from the root of the nose {nasion), along the middle line over the top of the head, to a point a little beyond the external occipital protuberance {inion) ; at right angles to this make a second incision from the tip of the mastoid process {pro- cessus mastoideus) of one side, over the top of the head, to a cor- responding point on the opposite side; then, from a point on the latter incision just above the ear, make a cut downward and a little forward to the root of the zygoma. The incision should extend through the skin only, not through the superficial fascia. Reflect carefully the four flaps of skin, carrying the knife close to the corium. The dissection is difficult, owing (1) to the firm