116 LABORATORY MANUAL OF HUMAN ANATOMY {ba) Dorsal ligaments of basal extremities of metacarpal bones {Ligg. basium [ossiuyn metacarpalium] dorsalia). (bb) Volar ligaments of basal extremities of metacarpal bones {Ligg. basium [oss. metacarp.^ volaria). {be) Interosseous ligaments of basal extremities of metacarpal bones {Ligg. basium [oss. metacarp.] interossea). These fill np the spatia interossea metacarpi and can be studied to better advantage later, when the bases of the metacarpal bones are separated from one another. Before leaving the joints of the carpus and metacarpus, the synovial membranes and articular surfaces of the joint-cavities should be carefully reviewed. (See Fig. 45.) Which joint-cavi- ties are independent? Which communicate? Detach the meta- carpus from the carpus and examine the articular surfaces. Then separate the various bones of the carpus and metacarpus from one another in order to see the extent of the various inter- osseous ligaments and articular surfaces. Study the possible movements in the various joints under examination. What muscles are especially concerned in the various movements ? Metacarpophalangeal Joints (Articulationes metacarpophalangeae). These five joints are arthrodiae. What is an arthrodia? Study— (a) Joint-capsules {capsulae articulares). (b) Strengthening ligaments : {ba) Collateral ligaments {ligamenta collateralia), one radial and one ulnar for each joint. (bb) Volar accessory ligaments {ligamenta accessoria volaria) (0. T. palmar ligaments). (c) Transverse ligaments of the heads of the metacarpal bones {Ligg. capitulorum [oss. metacarpalium] transversa). These have already been examined {vide supra). Raise the extensor tendon from the dorsal aspect of each joint and note the absence of dorsal ligaments, their place being taken by the extensor tendon. Of what movements is each metacarpophalangeal joint capa- ble? What are the muscles concerned in each case for the differ- ent joints? Joints of the Fingers (Articulationes digitorum manus). Note that the thumb has one, the other digits two ginglymi. What is a ginglymus? Study—