24 INTRODUCTION working out of many structures which would otherwise be cut away. In using the dissecting-probe the least force necessary to the purpose should be brought into play, the strength of the tissues being, as it were, continually tested, and the loose tissue between the definite structures being gently removed by repeated light strokes instead of by a few strong sweeps of the probe. “ Wear away rather than tear away!^^ This will avoid giving the muscles a ragged appearance and will also preserve many small and delicate structures which would otherwise be lost. There is danger, however, of over-use of the method of blunt dissection with the probe. It is highly important that the stu- dent should gain skill with the scalpel, and this he can do only by constant practice with it. Again, where the probe is used instead of the scalpel, it is not possible to make so clean a dissec- tion as the student should require of himself. The structures are left ragged, and the artistic sense of the dissector remains unde- veloped, or, if developed, is offended. PRESERVATION OF THE PART. A large portion of the pleasure in his work and of the benefit to be derived from it will be lost if the student neglects to take proper care of the part while he is dissecting it and during the intervals between the periods of dissection. If a part be allowed to become dirty, if it be permitted to dry up, or if it become foul, the student will lose interest in it, will tire of it, and will inevi- tably neglect it. If the part has been well preserved in the first place, its preservation after arrival in the dissection-room depends entirely upon the student. If he handle it properly and protect it carefully, he can keep it in prime condition until the dissection has been completed. Drying of the part is the greatest of all dangers. The moment the tissues become dry, knives are dulled in dissecting them and it quickly becomes impossible to isolate the finer struct- ures, which, moreover, lose their natural color and form. In addition, the part grows repulsive to sight. The skin of the cadaver is one of the best protectives against drying. Skin when removed should always be kept as a covering for the part. When the dissection is put away at the end of a working period, it should be wrapped carefully in the integu- ment, which should be securely fastened by tying or pinning it in place. Some careful dissectors take the trouble to secure cutaneous flaps in position by stitches each time the part is put away.