LABORATORY MANUAL OF HUMAN ANATOMY Like the sensory spinal nerves, the sensory cerebral nerves arise from ganglia outside the central nervous system and their axones terminate in certain end-nuclei {nuclei terminales) inside the central system; in these end-nuclei are cells which give off the axones of secondary fibre systems. Olfactory Nerves (Nn. olfactorii). Nuclei originis: bipolar cells of regio olfactoria of nasal mucous mem- brane. Nuclei terminales: in olfactory glomeruli of bulbus olfactorius. Secondary path: from mitral cells of bulbus olfactorius through tractus olfactorius to— {a) Gray matter of trigonum olfactorium. (b) Through stria olfactoria lateralis to uncus and thence to hippo- campus and gyrus cinguli. (c) Through stria olfactoria intermedia to substantia perforata ante- rior. (d) Through stria olfactoria medialis to gyrus subcallosus. Bipolar Cells of Retina (analogous, for visual path, to sensory fibres of pos- terior roots of spinal nerves). Nuclei terminales: ganglion cell layer of retina. Secondary path: from ganglion cell layer of retina, through (badly named) N. opticus, chiasma opticum, and tractus optici, to— (a) Corpus geniculatum laterale. (b) Pulvinar thalanii. (c) Superficial and middle gray strata of superior colliculus of corpora quadrigemina. Tertiary paths: (a) From corpus geniculatum laterale and pulvinar thalami, through radiato occipitothalamica [Gratioleti], to cortex of occipital lobe about the fissura calcarina. (b) From middle gray layer of colliculus superior, through decussatio tegmenti dorsalis of Meynert and fasciculus longitudinalis me- dialis of opposite side, to eye-muscle nuclei and spinal cord; this is the so-called ‘‘optic-acoustic reflex path” (Held). Oculomotor Nerve (N. oculomotorius). Nuclei originis: nucleus of oculomotor nerve {nucleus N. oculomotorii) in tegmentum of cerebral peduncle. Cortical control: {a) From cortex of central gyri through capsula interna (?). {b) From cortex about fissura calcarina to superior colliculus and then through optic-acoustic reflex path. Trochlear Nerve (N. trochlearis). Nucleus originis: nucleus of trochlear nerve {nucleus N. trochlearis) in isthmus rhombencephali on opposite side, through decussatio nervorum trochlearium. Cortical control: probably same as for N. oculomotorius.