PREFACE Vll two of the most recent descriptive text-books of systematic human anatomy by English writers have yet adopted this nomen- clature. It is earnestly to be hoped that an advance will quickly be made in this direction and that text-books will employ it uni- formly. Special attention is drawn to the fact that in the fol- lowing Laboratory Manual the old terms, when different from the new, have been added in parentheses, so that the student need never be embarrassed in finding his way even in a de- scriptive text-book or atlas in which only the old terms are employed. He is advised, however, when purchasing a text- book to give preference to one in which the new nomenclature [BNA] is consistently employed. Indulgence is asked for misprints and errors almost certain to occur in the first edition of a work including such an enor- mous number of names as is involved in a subject like human anatomy. Should the Manual find enough friends to make a second edition desirable, many improvements can doubtless be made, and suggestions from instructors and students of anatomy will be cordially welcomed. The Manual contains about 300 illustrations, of which a special index is given. The drawings and plates represent in a very satisfactory way the most important structures of the bodv. These illustrations have been chosen to serve as a valu- able atlas to students who feel that they cannot afford to buy one of the more expensive atlases like those of Spalteholz and Toldt. On the other hand, students who own Spalteholz’s At- las, the one especially recommended for use in connection with this Manual, will find that the illustrations have been selected with the special aim of supplementing those of Spalteholz, and that they will prove a valuable addition to the latter. The Anatomical Atlas of Toldt, from which manv of the illustrations in this Manual have been borrowed, can be very highly recommended; every student who can afford to do so should purchase it for his library. Chicago, October 1, 1904.