1G8 LABORATORY MANUAL OF HUMAN ANATOMY Deep Fascia of Leg (Fascia cruris). This fascia extends from the knee to the malleoli. It repre- sents almost a complete cone, being interrupted only at the facies medialis of the tibia. What is the relation of its superior cir- cumference to the capitulum fibulae, the condyles of the tibia, and the fascia lataf Its inferior circumference is attached to the malleoli and the tuber calcaneum. Between these three bony projections it becomes continuous with the annular ligaments about the ankle. Examine cross-sections of the leg and note the different relations of the fascial reflections and the osteofascial compart- ments formed by septa passing from this fascia into the tibia and fibula. They have already been referred to above. The septum intermusculare anterius [fibulare] and the septum intermuscu- lare posterius [fibulare] divide the subfascial space into three compartments. (See Figs. 64 and 68.) (a) Anterior compartment, deep, prismatic in form. It lodges the M. tibialis anterior, the M. extensor digitorum longus, the M. extensor hal-’ lucis longus, the M. peronaeus tertius, and the anterior tibial vessels and nerves. (h) Lateral compartment: this lodges the peroneal muscles and the superior part of the nervus peronaeus superficialis. (c) Posterior compartment: this is divided into two secondary com- partments by the deep transverse fascia of the leg passing from the margo medialis of the tibia to the crista lateralis of the fibula. Posterior to this fascia will be found the M. triceps surae and the M. plantaris; anterior to it will be found the M. tibialis posterior, M. flexor digitorum longus, M. flexor hallucis longus, the posterior tibial vessels and nerves, and the peroneal vessels. The fascia cruris varies much in thickness in different regions. It is composed of transverse longitudinal and oblique fibres. The transverse fibres arise from the crista anterior of the tibia and after encircling the leg are inserted upon the margo medialis of the same bone. The oblique and longitudinal fibres arise from the bony projections into which the superior circum- ference of this fascia is attached. What muscles send off proc- esses which reinforce the longitudinal and oblique fibres? Incise the fascia in the median line from the fossa poplitea to the os calcaneum and reflect the flaps. Muscles of the Superficial Posterior Osteofascial Compartment. These may now be dissected out. The muscles of the leg find their homologues in the muscles of the fore- arm. Any differences found are to be explained by the adaptation of the