DISSECTION OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY 71 Divide the M. deltoideus close to its origin and reflect it downward, avoiding injury to the ramus acroinialis of the A. thoraco-acroniialis. Examine carefully the subdeltoid bursa {bursa suhdeltoidea) and the subacromial bursa {bursa sub- acromialis). Beneath the deltoid dissect out carefully— (a) Posterior circumflex artery of humerus [A. circumflexa humeri pos- terior). (&) Anterior circumflex artery of humerus {A. circumflexa humeri an- terior). (c) Veins corresponding to these arteries. {d) Axillary nerve {N. axillaris) (0. T. circumflex). (da) Muscular rami {rami musculares). {daa) N. teres minor. (dab) Nn. deltoidei. (db) Lateral cutaneous nerve of the upper arm {N. cutaneus brachii lateralis). Teres Major Muscle (M. teres major) (“Larger Round Muscle”). Study carefully its form, position, origin, insertion, action, and innervation. Note especially the torsion the muscle un- dergoes. Review the relation of this muscle to the quadrilateral and triangular spaces. Between the tendon of insertion and the bone find the bursa of this muscle {bursa M. teretis ma- joris). Between the tendon of the M. teres major and that of the M. latissimus dorsi find the bursa of the latter muscle {bursa M. latissimi dorsi). Do you find any trace of a M. dorsi-epitrochlearis? Examine carefully at this stage the exact mode of termination of the tendons of the Mm. pectoralis major and latissimus dorsi. Ligaments of Shoulder-blade and Acromioclavicular Articulation. Ligaments of the shoulder-blade. Study— (a) Coraco-acromial ligament (ligamentum coraco-acromiale). (b) Superior transverse ligament of scapula {Lig. transversum scapulae inferius). (The latter will be seen at a later stage of the dissection.) Acromioclavicular articulation {articulatio acromioclavicularis). Study— (a) Joint-capsule (capsula ariicularis). (b) Acromioclavicular ligament {ligamentum acromioclaviculare). (c) Intercalated disk of fibrocaililage {discus articularis). Is one present ? {d) Coracoclavicular ligament {ligamentum coracoclaviculare). {da) Anterior, lateral, quadi-angular part, or trapezoid ligament (Lig. trapezoideum).