DISSECTION OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY 163 (а) Short extensor of great toe {M. extensor hallucis brevis). (б) Short extensor of digits {M. extensor digiiorum brevis). Determine the relation of these muscles to the tendons of the long extensor of the digits. What is their action"? Have they homolognes in the hand? (c) Dorsal interosseous mnscles {Mm. interossei dorsales). Compare these with similar muscles found in the hand, as regards origin, insertion, action, etc. Where are the bursae inter met atarsophala^igeae situated! LATERAL OR PERONEAL REGION OF LEG {REGIO CRURIS LATERALIS). The superficial fascia of this region has already been studied. An anterior intermuscular septum {septum inter muscular e ante- rius [fibularel) has been found passing from the deep fascia into the crista anterior fibulae. Incise the deep fascia longitudinally in this region; reflect it posteriorly and note the corresponding posterior [fibular] intermuscular septum {septum intermuscu- lar e posterkis [fibulare]) going to the crista lateralis fibulae. A lateral or peroneal osteofascial compartment is thus formed. Dissect its contents and supplement the dissection by the use of cross-sections made at different levels; note carefully the altera- tions in the relations of the different contents of the compart- ment at different levels. Study the following: Peroneal Muscles and Retinacula. Clean each muscle carefully, defining well its borders and noting the form, position, origin, insertion, action, and innerva- tion of each. (a) Long peroneal muscle (M. peronaeus longus). What action does this muscle have as regards the arch of the foot! (b) Short peroneal muscle {M. peronaeus brevis). Trace the tendons of both muscles distalward into the foot. What are their relative positions in the fossa retromalleolaris lateralis! (Cf. Fig. 68.) What is the trochlear process {pro- cessus troclilearis) of the os calcis! Examine the bony foot and determine the position of the peroneal sulcus {sulcus M. peronaei [longi']). Define next the retaining bands of the peroneal muscles {ret- inacula). (Cf. Spalteholz’s Atlas, Fig. 409.)