442 LABORATORY MANUAL OF HUMAN ANATOMY urogenital diaphragm {diaphragma urogenitale) (0. T. trian- gular ligament). This is also known as the middle perineal aponeurosis.” (Vide Spalteholz, Figs. 657, 658, 673.) Fig. 228. Allantoic sheath . Fascia obturatoria Fasc. diaph. pelvis sup. Fasc. endopelvina . Fasc. diaph. pelvis inf. Fasc. diaph. urogen. sup. Fasc. diaph. urogen. inf. Fascia superficialis perinei The perineal aponeuroses; frontal section. (From Poirier et Charpy, Traite d’Anat. hum., Paris, 1901, t. V. p. 217, Fig. 146.) Note carefully the attachments of the following layers of fascia and their relations to neighboring parts. (a) Inferior fascia of urogenital diaphragm {fascia diaphragmatis uro- genitalis inferior) (0. T. superficial layer of triangular ligament). (b) Superior fascia of urogenital diaphragm {fascia diaphragmatis uro- genitalis superior) (0. T. deep layer of triangular liga- ment). What is the relation posteriorly of these two layers of fascia to the fascia of Colles? The superior fascia is composed of three lamellae. In order from the pubic arch backward note— {ha) Arcuate ligament of pubis {Lig. arcuatum pubis). Note the relation of the dorsal vein of the penis (F. dorsalis penis) and the dorsal nerve of the penis {N. dorsalis penis) to this ligament. (Vide Spalteholz, Fig. 673.) {hh) Transverse ligament of pelvis {Lig. transversum pelvis) (0. T. median puboprostatic ligament of Krause). It is a fibrous band extending between the ischiopubic rami imme- diately behind the dorsal vein of the penis and in front of the urethra. Note the following aponeurotic divisions. (1) The anterior division passes anteriorly beneath the dorsal vein and is attached to the fibrous tunic of the corpora cavernosa, forming a union between these two bodies. It is called the “ supra-urethral part of the middle aponeurosis.” (2) The posterior division passes in front of the urethra and the prostate, fusing with the proper capsule of the latter. It is known as the “ preprostatic layer.”