48 LABORATORY MANUAL OF HUMAN ANATOMY should be taken to avoid giving a ragged” appearance to the surface of the muscle. As soon as the trunk of a nerve or blood- vessel is found, ascertain its name from a study of the illustra- tion in your atlas. Look up this name in the index to your Sys- tematic Human Anatomy and refer to the author’s description. When handling a nerve, blood-vessel, or indeed any structure, form the habit of repeating to yourself its name; this practice is extremely helpful in fixing the association between the struct- ure and the name which is the sign for it. Also, when reading write down every new term met with and learn its meaning, both literal or etymological and applied or derived. Nerves. (Fig. 4.) (a) Cutaneous branches of posterior rami of thoracic nerves {rami cutanei Rr. post. Nn. thoracalium). (b) Posterior rami of lateral cutaneous rami of anterior rami of inter- costal nerves {rami posteriores Rr. cutan. lat. Rr. ant. Nn. inter- costalium). (c) Medial rami of posterior rami of lumbar, sacral, and coccygeal nerves {rami mediates Rr. post. Nn. lumh., sacral., et coccyg.). {d) Lateral rami of posterior rami of lumbar nerves {rami laterales Rr. post. Nn. lumbalium = Nn. clunium superiores). Arteries. {a) Medial cutaneous rami of posterior rami of intercostal arteries {rami cutanei mediates Rr. post. Aa. intercostatium). {b) Lateral cutaneous rami of posterior rami of intercostal arteries {rami cutanei taterates Rr. post. Aa. intercostatium). (c) Dorsal cutaneous rami of lumbar arteries {rami cutanei dor sates Aa. tumbatium). {d) Posteiior rami of lateral cutaneous rami of anterior rami of inter- costal arteries {rami posteriores Rr. cutan. tat. Rr. ant. Aa. intercostatium). Veins. (Cf. Toldt, Fig. 1036.) (a) Dorsal rami of intercostal veins {rami dor sates Vv. intercostatium). {b) Branches of lumbar veins {Vv. lumbales). Broad Muscles of the Back (First Layer). (Fig. 5.) (a) Trapezius muscle {M. trapezius). {b) Broadest muscle of back (M. tatissimus dorsi). Study the form and position of each, and establish its exact origin and insertion. Test the action of the fibres of the different parts of the muscles. Find their innervation now or later. To what other structures are these muscles related'? Examine the boundaries and floor of the triangle of auscultation.” Why is it so called? Examine the boundaries and floor of Petit’s triangle (trigonum lumhale [Petiti)^).