343 DISSECTION OE THE HEAD AND NECK {cb) Chorioid plexus {plexus chorioideus ventriculi lateralis). Tlie Umbria hi}ipocampi and fascia deiitata hippocampi have already been examined. The edge of the fiml)ria after tearing away the chorioid plexus is called the taenia fim- briae. The student should next remove the remains of the right temporal and occipital lobes; cut through (a) the fimbria hippo- campi, where it passes into the crus fornicis, and (h) the occipi- tal part of the radiation of the corpus callosum (0. T. forceps major). Next make an incision from the anterior end of the cornu inferius forward, above the level of the uncus, through the polus temporalis. Now separate the lobus temporalis, with the gyrus hippocampi medial to it, from the rest of the hemisphere, the separation taking place along the line of the inferior part of the fissura transversa cerebri. Cut away enough of the lateral edge of the remaining medial part of the corpus callosum to permit of a good view of the septum pellucidum and the fornix, lying beneath it. Having noted their relations, cut across the remains of corpus callosum behind the genu, gently raise the truncus corporis callosi, and dissect backward, freeing it from the septum pellucidum and, further back, from the fornix. Septum pellucidum. (a) Layer of septum pellucidum {lamina septi pellucidi). {b) Cavity of septum pellucidum {cavum septi pellucidi) (0. T. fifth ventricle). Fornix. {a) Body of fornix {corpus fornicis). {aa) Taenia of fornix {taenia fornicis). {b) Crus of fornix {crus fornicis) (0. T. posterior pillar of fornix), (c) Column of fornix {columna fornicis) (0. T. anterior pillar of fornix). {ca) Free part {pars libera columnae fornicis). {cb) Covered part {pars tecta columnae fornicis). Next cut transversely through the corpus fornicis at its middle and gently reflect the two ends forward and backward respectively. Running medialward from the crus fornicis, infe- rior to the corpus callosum, towards the crus fornicis of the opposite side, observe the commissure of the hippocampus (commissiira hippocampi) (0. T. lyra or lyre of David). The sjjace between the commissura hippocampi and the inferior sur- face of the corpus callosum has been called Verga’s ventricle.” One-half of the so-called chorioid tela of the third ventricle {tela chorioidea ventriculi tertii) (0. T. velum interpositum) is now