LABORATORY MANUAL OF HUMAN ANATOMY 372 (b) Pontocerel)ellar paths, from nuclei pontis to cortex of liemisphaeriurn cerebelli of same and of opposite side. Paths of Brachium Conjunctivum (0. T. Superior Cerebellar Peduncle). (a) Paths from nucleus dentatus cerebelli through brachium conjunctivum to tegmentum of cerebral peduncle, there to decussate in large part in the decussatio brachii conjunctivi, then to give off large numbers of collaterals to the nucleus ruber, and finally, joining the fibres of the lemniscus medialis, to end in the [ventro-] lateral nucleus of the thalamus. There it connects with the thalamocortical path to the central gyri (somaesthetic area). This path influences the spinal cord in at least two ways: (1) By collateral fibres which leave main axones soon after exit from the cerebellum and pass down to the spinal cord {ramus de- scendens of Ramon y Cajal). (2) Through the red nucleus which sends a path to the lateral funiculus. {b) Path from spinal cord to cerebellum running in Gowers’ tract upward to pons and corpora quadrigemina, then hooking around N. tri- geminus and running, in velum medullare anterius, close to bra- chium conjunctivum, to cerebellar vermis. Conduction Paths of Diencephalon and Telencephalon. I. Projection Fibre Systems. These are the fibre systems which connect the gray matter of the telencephalon (pallium, nucleus caudatus, nucleus lentiformis, rhinen- cephalon) with lower parts of the nervous system (thalamus, brain- stem, spinal cord). (A) Ascending projection systems (corticopetal paths). (1) Uppermost neurone systems of general sensory path. The medul- lated axones pass from the cells in the [ventro-] lateral nucleus of the thalamus, chiefly through the posterior third of the capsula interna and corona radiata, to the cortex of the cen- tral gyri (somaesthetic area) ; a few fibres go through or around the nucleus lentiformis, and by way of the capsula externa to the cortex. (2) Upper part of visual conduction path. The medullated axones pass from the cells in the nucleus corporis geniculati laterale and pul- vinar thalami, through the radiatio oceipitothalamica, to the cortex about the fissura calcarina. (3) Upper part of auditory conduction path. The medullated axones pass from the cells in the nucleus corporis geniculati medialis and nucleus colliculi inferior, by way of the posterior part of the capsula interna, lateralward to the gyrus temporalis superior (junction of third and fourth fifths), and adjacent gyri tem- porales transversi. (B) Descending projection systems (corticofugal paths). (1) Pyramidal tract {fasciculi piiramidales), from large pyramidal cells of central gyri and lobulus paracentralis, through corona radiata and through knee and anterior two-thirds of occipital limb of capsula interna (head-movement fibres in front, arm