LABORATORY MANUAL OF HUMAN ANATOMY 296 (c) Palatine nerves {Nn. palatini), from the N. trigeminus through the ganglion sphenopalatinum. {ca) Middle palatine nerve {N. palatinus medius) (0. T, exter- nal palatine). {cb) Posterior palatine nerve {N. palatinus posterior). Palatine Tonsils (Tonsillae palatinae). (Vide Spalteholz, Figs. 545- 548.) Observe the exact situation of the palatine tonsil on each side. How is it related to neighboring structures! What especial danger might be run in lancing a peritonsillar abscess! (a) Tonsillar crypts or fossulae {fossulae tonsillares). Are any of them tilled with yellowish-white plugs'? (b) Tonsillar sinus {sinus tonsillaris). Is it completely filled by the tonsil or is there a fossa supratonsillarisf Note the plica triangu- laris. How is the tonsil supplied with blood! How is the tonsil related to the cervical lymph-glands! Auditory or Eustachian Tube (Tuba auditiva [Eustachii]). Of its two parts, one is lateral and bony {pars ossea tiihae auditivae), the other medial and cartilaginous {pars cartilaginea tubae auditivae). The cartilaginous part is now studied. Its pharyngeal opening {ostium pharyngeum tubae auditivae) has already been examined. Pass a bristle or probe into it and ascer- tain the direction of the tuba auditiva. What is the position of the tuba as regards the M. levator veli palatini and the M. tensor veli palatini! Dissect the mucous membrane cautiously away around the pharyngeal opening of the tube and examine the constitution of the cartilaginous portion. The cartilage of the Eustachian tube {cartilago tubae audi- tivae) consists of two laminae, one medial {lamina carUlaginis medialis) and one lateral {lamina cartilaginis lateralis). (Cf. Spalteholz, Fig. 552.) Where cartilage is lacking, a strong mem- branous layer {lamina membranacea) takes its place. Open the tuba auditiva and examine the mucous membrane {tunica^ mu- cosa). Are there any glands {glandulae mucosae) or solitary lymph-nodules {noduli lympliatici tubarii) visible! Observe the trumpet-shape of the canal. From which of the inner branchial pockets of the embryo do the Eustachian tube and cavity of the middle ear arise!