DISSECTION OF THE HEAD AND NECK 229 taking no fat with it; the superficial fascia {fascia superficialis) is thus exposed. Why should the pain accompanying inflamma- tion at the nape of the neck—as, for example, in carbuncle—be particularly severe! Superficial Vessels and Nerves. (Vide Fig. 4, p. 47.) Remove the superficial fascia piecemeal. The A. and V. occipitalis have already been met with in the dissection of the scalp, as have the terminals of the N. occipitalis major and M. occipitalis minor. The trunk of the N. occipitalis major pierces the M. trapezius; note exact spot, usually about two and one- half centimetres below the inion and one centimetre from the middle line. Is a N. occipitalis tertius present! If so, where does it pierce the M. trapezius and how is it related in distribu- tion to the N. occipitalis major! Find the dorsal cutaneous branches of the fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth cervical nerves {rami cutanei dor sales Nn. cervicalium IV., V., VI., VII., VIII.). Ascertain as closely as possible the area of skin inner- vated by each. Isolate the great auricular nerve {N. auricularis magnus) and follow its posterior branch {ramus posterior) ; its anterior branch {ramus anterior) will be studied later. ' Dissect out the cutaneous branches of the superficial cervical artery {A. cervicalis superficialis) and of the transverse artery of the scapula {A. transversa scapulae). Note the correspond- ing veins. Into what lymph-glands do the lymphatics from this region empty! Make a drawing of the dissection at this stage. Upper Part of the Posterior Triangle of the Neck. Clean the surface of the trapezius muscle {M. trapezius) and the posterior border of the sternocleidomastoid muscle {M. sternocleidomastoideus), which form the posterior and anterior boundaries of the triangle. Do not raise the M. sternocleidomast- oideus and take care not to disturb the nerves which lie beneath it at this stage of the dissection. Clean the floor of the triangle. Note the direction of the fibres of the splenius muscle of the head {M. splenius capitis) and of the elevator muscle of the scapula {M. levator scapidae) (0. T. levator anguli scapulae). Avoid injury to the rami musculares of the plexus cervicalis supplying the latter muscle; they lie usually upon its surface in close apposition with it. How is the apex of the triangle formed! Is the semispinalis muscle {M. semispinalis capitis) (0. T. corn- plexus) visible! If so, in what direction do its fibres run! Is