LABORATORY MANUAL OF HUMAN ANATOMY 450 anteriorly into the central tendinous point of the diaphragm, be- coming continuous with some of the fibres of the M. bulbocaverno- sus. (c) Internal circular layer, made up of annular fibres surrounding the terminal part of the rectum. Note that the external sphincter is made up of two symmetrical halves. Clean out the fat of the ischiorectal fossa, carefully pre- serving the structures found therein. Proceed to the study of it, noting exactly the position of its boundaries. Ischiorectal Fossa (Fossa ischiorectalis). (Figs. 224, 232, 274, 278.) (a) Levator ani muscle {M. levator ani). {b) Obturator internus muscle {M. obturator internus). (c) Inferior fascia of pelvic diaphragm {fascia diaphragmatis pelvis in- ferior) (0. T. anal fascia). {d) Obturator fascia {fascia obturatoria). At the junction of (c) and {d) as seen from below, in the angle between them is seen the tendinous arch of the levator ani muscle {arcus tendinous M. levatoris ani) (0. T. white line of pelvic fascia). (e) Posterior border of urogenital diaphragm {diaphragma urogenitale). {f) Gluteus maximus muscle {M. glutaeus maximus). {g) Sacrotuberous ligament {ligamentum sacrotuberosum) (0. T. gi’eat sacrosciatic ligament). After having located accurately the boundaries of this fossa, proceed to the study of its contents: {a) Inferior hemorrhoidal artery {A. haemorrhoidalis inferior). (Vide Spalteholz, Pig. 473.) Determine the course of the inferior hemorrhoidal veins {Vv. JiaemorrJioidales inferiores). What is the plexus haemorrhoidalisf With what vessels do the above anastomose? {b) Inferior hemorrhoidal nerve {N. haemorrhoidalis inferior). (c) Anococcygeal nerves {Nn. anococcygei) (0. T. perineal branches of fourth sacral nerve). Trace the arteria haemorrhoidalis inferior back to the inter- nal pudendal artery {A. pudenda interna), its parent stem. Note that it is accompanied by the F. pudenda interna and the N. pudendus. These three structures run in the canal of Al- cock,’’ which is formed by the fusion of the fascia obturatoria with the falciform process of the ligamentum sacrotuberosum.