216 LABORATORY MANUAL OF HUMAN ANATOMY (aa) Supraclavicular part {pars supraclavicular is). {aaa) Posterior thoracic nerves {Nn. ihoracales poste- riores). (1) Dorsal nerve of scapula {N. dorsalis scap- ulae) (0. T. nerve to the rhomboids). (2) Long thoracic nerve {N. ihoracalis longus) (0. T. external respiratory nerve of Bell, or posterior thoracic). {aab) Anterior thoracic nei-\'es {Nn. ihoracales ante- rior es). {aac) Subclavius nerve {N. subclavius). {aad) Suprascapular nerve {N. suprascapularis). {aae) Subscapular nerves {Nn. sub scapular es). {aaf) Thoracodorsal nerve {N. thoracodorsalis) (0. T. long subscapular nerve). {aag) Axillary nerve {N. axillaris) (0. T. circumflex nerve). (1) Muscular branches {rami muscular es). (2) Lateral cutaneous nerve of arm {N. cuta- neus brachii lateralis). Surgical Anatomical Points. Note that the supraclavicular triangle is the “ seat of election” for liga- ture of the subclavian artery; its relations to neighboring structures are, therefore, exceedingly important. Examine these carefully, using your text-book as a guide. Note especially the relation of the artery to the external jugular vein and its tributaries. Run the Anger down the lateral margin of the M. scalenus anterior (just beneath the posterior margin of the M. sternocleidomastoideus) until the scalene tubercle {tuberculum scaleni) on the first rib is reached. This is the guiding-point for the surgeon in the operation of ligation. If the finger-nail rest on the tuber- culum scaleni, the artery will be felt, in the living subject, to pulsate against the finger-pulp. The proximity of the lowest trunk of the plexus brachialis and of the cupula pleurae to the artery are important points to the surgeon. If a cervical rib be present, the artery may either be in front of it or arch above it. The V. jugularis externa is often opened in the posterior triangle to relieve the right heart in asphyxia; its position corresponds to a line drawn from the angle of the jaw to the middle of the clavicle. It should not be opened in the lower part of its course, where it is held open by the fascia, owing to the danger of suction of air into the vessel during inspi- ration. How is the floor of the supraclavicular triangle formed? Anterior Triangle of the Neck. (Vide Figs. 87 and 91.) Turn the N. cutaneus colli and the ramus colli N. facialis backward and remove the superficial and deep layers of the fascia colli. Note that the deep layer does not extend above the omohyoid muscle or the hyoid bone. How is the anterior