LABORATORY MANUAL OF HUMAN ANATOMY 506 Kidney (Ren). (Vide Fig. 271, and Spalteholz, Figs. 634-636.) Study the exact relation of the kidneys to the vertebrae, the psoas and quadratus Imnborum muscles, the twelfth rib, and the crest of the ilium. Which kidney is the lower! How do you account for this low position! Note the relation of the right kidney to the liver, the duodenum, and the flexura coli dextra, and the relation of the left kidney to the pancreas, the stomach, the spleen, and the flexura coli sinistra. Direction and Orientation. The kidney is not vertically placed. Its axis is directed obliquely downward and lateralward. The superior extremity approaches the median line. The anterior surface is directed lateralward and the pos- terior medialward. Perirenal Fascia. (Figs. 268 and 269.)^ (a) Retrorenal layer. This layer of fascia is found between the posterior surface of the kidney and the aponeurosis of the quadratus lumborum muscle. It covers the sheath of the psoas muscle, reinforcing it, and is attached to the vertebrae and intervertebral disks, medial to the attachment of the psoas. It does not become continuous with the corresponding fascia of the opposite side. Prerenal fascia. This layer of fascia follows closely the reflections of the peri- toneum about the kidneys. It passes in front of each kidney and its corresponding pedicle, the aorta and inferior vena cava, to become continuous with the corresponding fascia of the oppo- site side. If these two fasciae are traced longitudinally, they will be found to fuse above and become attached to the diaphragm. Below, fusion does not occur; the anterior layer follows the reflections of the peritoneum, while the posterior layer divides into several lamellae which fuse with the cellular tissue of the iliac fossa. Vessels of the Kidney. In injected specimens study— Arteries of Kidney {Arteriae renales). (a) Interlobar arteries of kidney {Aa. interlohares renis). (aa) Arciform arteries or renal arches (A«. arciformes). (ah) Interlobular arteries {Aa. interlobulares). ^ For a description of the perineal fascia, consult “ The Present Conception of the Perineal Fascia and its Role in Fixation of the Kidney,” by D. D. Lewis, in Jour. Amer. Med. Assoc., vol. xlii. p. 701.