DISSECTION OF THE HEAD AND NECK 261 lateralward and downward and find the artery (A. masseterica) and nerve (iV. massetericus, V. 3) passing through the incisura mandihulae (0. T. sigmoid notch) to it. Cut through these after they have been cleaned and studied, but do not detach the M. masseter from its insertion. Temporal Muscle. The temporal muscle {M. temporalis) may now be examined. How are the fibres arranged f Saw nearly through the coronoid process of the mandible, making the cut pass obliquely from the middle of the incisura mandibulae downward and forward to the junction of the ramus with the basis mandibulae. Complete the division with fine forceps. Avoid injury to the N. buccinatorius. Eeflect the processus coronoideus with the attached M. tempo- ralis upward and separate the muscle from the bone. Study the anterior and posterior deep temporal nerves (A. temporalis profundus anterior—posterior) and arteries {A. temporalis profunda anterior—posterior) ; follow the distribution of the A. temporalis media; find the point of exit of the ramus zygo- maticotemporalis N. zygomatici (0. T. temporal branch of tem- poromalar). Pterygoid Region. Make a cut through the neck of the condyloid process of the mandible and another transversely through the ramus man- dibulae just above the level of the mandibular foramen (0. T. inferior dental foramen). Begin the cuts with the saw and complete with bone-forceps. Remove the incised portion of the ramus and dissect away the fat and areolar tissue, so as com- pletely to expose the pterygoid muscles and the pterygoman- dibular raphe {raphe pterygomandihularis) of the fascia bucco- pharyngea. Examine carefully the following structures: Muscles. (Spalteholz, Fi^s. 294 and 295.) (a) External pterygoid {M. pterygoideus externus). (b) Internal pterygoid (M. ptery goideus internus). (c) Buccinator muscle {M. buccinator). (ca) Buccopharyngeal fascia {fascia buccopharyngea) with its raphe pterygomandibiilaris. Arteries. (Vide Spalteholz, Fig. 439.) (a) Internal maxillary (A. maxillaris interna). First portion. iaa) Deep auricular (A. auricularis profunda). {ab) Anterior tympanic {A. tympanica anterior).