INTRODUCTION 36 trails) and dorsal {dorsalis). The adjectives right {dexter) and left {sinister) have their ordinary meaning. Besides these general terms for the body as a whole, certain special terms for the extremities {termini ad extremitates spec- tantes) are found convenient. In the extremities especially it is desirable to have designations independent of the position in space. The direction towards the trunk is, therefore, spoken of as proximal {proximalis) ; that away from the trunk, as distal {distalis). In the forearm and hand the direction towards the thumb side is spoken of as radial {radialis) ; that towards the little-finger side, as ulnar {ulnaris) ; similarly, in the leg the direction towards the great-toe side is spoken of as tibial {tibi- alis) and that towards the little-toe side as fibular {fibidaris). Furthermore, in both upper and lower extremities, for the ex- tensor surfaces the expression dorsal {dorsalis) is used; while for the fiexor surfaces the term used in the forearm and hand is volar {volaris); that in the foot, plantar {plantaris). GENERAL ANATOMICAL TERMS {TERMINI GENERATES). A list of certain general terms, with the English synonjuns, employed in gross anatomy is here included. It is not intended that the student should begin his work by memorizing these words. On the contrary, he will learn them best by adding them gradually to his vocabulary as the dissection proceeds. Accessorius (accessory). Acinus (berry). Aditus (entrance). Ala (wing) (contraction of axilla). Alveolus (little hollow). Ampulla (flask). Ang’ulus (angle). Ansa (handle or loop). Antrum (cave). Apertura (opening). Apex (tip). Appendix (appendage). Arcus (arch). Area (space). Axilla (wing). Basis (base). Brachium (arm). Canaliculus (small channel). Can alls (canal). Capitulum (little head). Capsula (capsule). Caput (head). Cartilage (cartilage). Caruncula (small piece of flesh). Cauda (tail). Caverna (cavern). Cavum (hole or cavity). Cellula (little chamber or cell). Circulus (circle). Cisterna (cistern). Collum (neck). Columna (column or pillar). Commissura (connection or commis- sure). Cornu (horn). Corona (wreath, garland, or crown). Corpus (body). Corpusculum (little body or cor- puscle). Cnsta (crest).