LABORATORY MANUAL OF HUMAN ANATOMY 156 Make the maximal movements in the joint in the direction of (1) extension, (2) flexion, (3) adduction, (4) abduction, (5) rota- tion medialward, (6) rotation lateral ward, (7) circumduction. How are the ligaments affected in each instance? What muscles are concerned in each movement in the living body? Open the articulation. Remove the whole capsule first, with the exception of the ligamentum iliofemorale. Test the strength of this and then remove it. Study each of the following ligaments: (a) Glenoid lip {labrum glenoidale) (0. T. cotyloid ligament). (b) Transverse ligament of acetabulum {ligamentum transversum ace- tabuli). (c) Round ligament of the femur {ligamentum teres femoris). This would be better designated “ triangular ligament,” or, better still, Lig, intrarticnlare coxae, a name suggested by Fick. It is probable that it is a vestige of a pubofemoral muscle the tendon of which has become invaginated into the joint. Study the blood supply and nerve supply of the joint. (Cf. Poirier et Charpy, t. i.. Figs. 731 and 732.) Follow the reflec- tions of the synovial membrane. Cut through the ligamentum teres, remove the lower extrem- ity from the trunk, and continue the dissection at a side-table. LEG AND FOOT. Make the following incisions: (1) an incision distalward along the middle line of the leg and dorsum of the foot, in front, extending as far as the base of the middle toe; (2) transverse incisions extending (a) across the ankle and (h) across the bases of the toes. Reflect the flaps thus formed, taking no fat with the skin. Superficial Fascia. Note the characteristics of this fascia and determine with what fasciae it is continuous above and below. Dissect out the following: Veins. (Vide Spalteholz, Figs. 507-509.) (a) Dorsal digital veins of foot {Vv. digitales dorsales pedis). {b) Intercapitular veins {Vv. intercapitulares). (c) Common digital veins of foot {Vv. digitales communes pedis). {d) Dorsal venous arch of foot {arcus venosus dorsalis pedis'’{cuta- neus)). {e) Dorsal cutaneous venous network of foot {rete venosum dorsale pedis cutaneum).