27 INTRODUCTION The drawing should always be “ placed” carefully, so that it will not be too near either side, the top, or the bottom of the page. Space must be reserved for the legend. The drawings ought not to be crowded: one on a page is usually all there is room for, and only one side of the paper should be used.^ The gross features should first be attended to, the general direction of the lines which bound the structures, representing position, size, general shape, and proportions, being sketched in. These lines ought to be made as near right as possible without taking an undue amount of time. The finished drawing will be correct and satisfactory relatively to the accuracy of this pre- liminary, general sketch. The details, proceeding from larger to smaller, are to be drawn next. Usually much detail is not only unnecessary but even objectionable. The endeavor to get too much detail, and to get it without first attending to the general features, is almost the sole cause for the common remark, “ I can’t draw and never shall be able to! ” Any one who Ccin write can draw, and, by observing the right method and the proper sequence, can make drawings that are useful and valuable. The pencil should be medium soft; HB is the most useful grade. The lines should be drawn on, not into, the paper, and this requires lightness of touch. The pencil point is to be kept long and sharp,^ so that it will mark readily and make a fine line that can be seen while it is being made. The strength (that is, width and blackness) of the various lines in the finished drawing should be proportionate to the relative importance of the struct- ures which they represent. The term relative importance” has reference here not to anatomical or physiological value, but to interest in the picture: the things in the picture that give it a name are the things of greatest relative value in that picture. In labelling “ print” the names neatly, preferably with ink. If there be difficulty in making the words straight and horizontal, light, horizontal lines may be ruled for guides; these can after- wards be erased. No attempt should be made to form the letters exactly like printed (press) type, but a free style is to be used. The pointing lines, either dotted or unbroken, should be ruled with a sharp pencil. This differentiates them from the lines of ^ The right side of the drawing-paper should always be used. The wrong side (when only one side is for use) is dimpled so as to look as if impressed with cotton or linen. ^ A piece of sand-paper glued to a strip of wood is handy for this.