LABORATORY MANUAL OF HUMAN ANATOMY 454 ward, noting its digitations and the muscles to which it is related. (Cf. Spalteholz, Fig. 317.) Examine the course of the N. ilio- inguinal is. {h) Internal ol)liqne muscle of abtloraen {M. obliquus internus ab- dominis). What is meant by the inguinal aponeurotic falx {falx aponeu- rotica inguinalis) (0. T. conjoined tendon)? On the right side only, divide this muscle where the fibres pass over into the aponeurosis and also along a line five milli- metres above the inguinal ligament and crista iliaca. Reflect the muscle dor sal ward and cranial ward, noting carefully the vessels and nerves on its deep surface. What are they! .(Cf. Spalteholz, Figs. 319 and 324.) Note where the lateral cuta- neous rami of the intercostal nerves perforate this muscle. What is the relation of the M. cremaster to the M. obliquus in- ternus abdominis! (c) Transverse muscle of abdomen {M. transversus abdominis). Note carefully the relation of the falx inguinalis to the annulus inguinalis subcutaneus. Note where the fibres go over into the aponeurosis, the semilunar line {linea semilunaris [Spigeli^). On each side make an incision through the aponeuroses paral- lel to the linea alba and distant three centimetres from it, extend- ing throughout the entire length of the M. rectus abdominis. Reflect the flaps of the aponeuroses lateralward and medialward respectively. Difficulty in reflecting is experienced along the transverse line, owing to attachment to the subjacent muscle. These transverse lines are the inscriptiones tendineae. How many of them are there! Where are they situated! What is their morphological significance! {d) Rectus (‘^straight”) muscle of abdomen {M. rectus abdominis). Study its sheath {vagina recti abdominis). Note the disposition in its upper two-thirds and in the lower third. What theories have been advanced to explain this arrangement? How is the semi- circular line of Douglas {linea semicircularis [Douglasi)) formed? Note the vessels and nerves which pass through the posterior layer of the sheath; also the artery passing from below upward {A. epigastrica inferior) and the one passing from above down- ward {A. epigastrica superior). Do these anastomose in the muscle ? {e) Pyramidal muscle {M. pyramidalis). What is its relation to the M. rectus abdominis and its sheath? What is the phylogenetic significance of this muscle? This muscle is frequently absent, and also varies greatly in length, sometimes extending as high as the umbilicus.