INTRODUCTION 34 DIVISION OF THE CADAVER INTO PARTS. The number of men assigned to a given cadaver and the part that each will dissect will vary in different laboratories, partly according to the supply of material, partly according to the par- ticular plan favored by the instructor. Very satisfactory methods of division have been agreed upon, among others the following: A. For ten students to a cadaver, five on each side. 1. Arm aiid wall of thorax {extremitas superior). 2. Lower extremity {extremitas inferior). 3. Head, neck, and dorsum of trunk {caput, collum, et dorsum trunci). 4. Thorax. 5. Abdomen and pelvis {abdomen et pelvis). B. For six students to a cadaver, three on each side. 1. Arm and wall of thorax {extremitas superior). 2. Lower extremity, abdomen, and pelvis {extremitas inferior, ab- domen, et pelvis). 3. Head, neck, and upper part of trunk {caput, collum, dorsum trunci, et thorax). C. For four students to a cadaver, two on each side. 1. Upper half of body {caput, collum, dorsum trunci, thorax, et extremitas superior). 2. Lower half of body {extremitas inferior, abdomen, et pelvis). ANATOMICAL TERMS INDICATING THE POSITION AND DIRECTION OP PARTS OF THE BODY. • In descriptive anatomy certain technical terms, derived chiefly from the Latin and Greek, are necessary for the desig- nation of parts of the body and for specifying exactly their spatial relations. In descriptions the human body is usually thought of as standing upright, with the arms hanging at the sides,—i.e., alive; the older anatomists always represented the volar surface of the forearm and the palm as looking forward, but at present no definite position in space is ascribed to the forearm. The body, so nearly symmetrical, is thought of as being halved by a per- pendicular plane, the so-called median {medianus) plane, into a right and a left half. The direction towards this median plane is designated as medial (medialis) ; that away from it, lateral {lateralis). By a vertical direction {verticalis) is meant one corresponding to the long axis of the median plane; a plane or line at right angles to the median plane, if it be parallel to the