463 ABDOMEN AND PELVIS The following folds of peritoneimi, connecting the intestinal tract with the anterior and posterior abdominal walls, should be noted (cf. Eig. 241) : (a) Ventral mesentery {mesenterium anterius). What is its extent? {b) Dorsal mesentery {mesenterium posterius). Note its extent and divisions. Note that, while these structures are found in the embryo, they persist in part in different forms and relations in the adult. (c) Duodenal loop {ansa duodenalis). Fig. 241. Pedicle of the allantois A. haemorrhoid, sup. A. sacralis media Ventriculus Omentum minus Hepar Lig. falciforme hepatis Ant. abdom. wall Pylorus Duodenum Intestinum terminate Primitive mesovesica Cloaca and anus Ramus hepaticus Ramus coronarius A. gastrica sinistra A. licnalis A. gastro-epiploica sin. A. coeliaca A. hepatica A. gastrica dextra A. gastro-cpiploica dextra A. hepatica propria A. pancreaticoduod. sup. A. mesenterica sup. Aorta Descending limb of the ansa umbilicalis Aa. intestinales A. colica dextra A. mesenterica inferior Ascending limb of the ansa umbilicalis duct Schematic section of the abdomen of an embryo in which the segments of the alimentary canal have been differentiated. The section is made in the sagittal plane and is to the right of the median plane. The right face of the mesenterium commune dorsale and of the mesenterium ventrale is shown. The liver is represented isolated from the anterior abdominal wall and the diaphragm. Star with 8 points, territory of the A. coeliaca ; star with 6 points, territory of the A. mes. sup. ; star with 4 points, territory of the A. mes. inf.; 1, 2, 3, Aa. colicae dextra, media et sinistra; g, m, d, Aa. sigmoideae; cross, mesenterium ventrale. (From Fredet in Poirier et Charpy, Trait6 d’Anat. hum., Paris, 1901, 2 ed., t. iv. p. 881, Fig. 455.) {d) Intestinal loop {ansa intestinalis or umbilicalis). The summit of this ansa is in communication with the vitelline duct and this determines its convexity anteriorly. This ansa is divided into two segments: {da) Superior descending or proximate segment, forming an obtuse angle with the ansa duodenalis (flexura duodeno- jejunalis of the embiyo). (db) Inferior or ascending segment. This is prolonged to the