98 LABORATORY MANUAL OF HUMAN ANATOMY spoiul'? Note the distribution of the longitudinal and transverse fibres which constitute it. Examine carefully— (d) Fasciculi transversi (0, T. transverse superficial ligament). Between each two digital slips of the aponeurosis palmaris, note the vessels and nerves. Cut through the fasciculi transversi in order to expose them better. Observe the septa passing into the depth from the margins of (h). What three compartments are thus formed and what do they contain ? Superficial Volar Arch (Arcus volaris superficialis) (O. T. Superficial Palmar Arch) and Ulnar Artery. Cut through the narrow proximal part of the aponeurosis palmaris, reflect it distalward, and then remove it entirely. Re- move the ligamentum carpi volare and dissect out the ulnar vessels and ramus volaris manus N. ulnaris in the palm. Dissect out also the N. medianus and its branches; avoid injury to the muscular rami near the distal margin of the ligamentum carpi transversum. To follow out the digital vessels and nerves, make an incision along the middle line of the volar surface of each digit and reflect the skin ulnarward and radialward. How is the superficial volar arch formed? Study the ulnar artery and the superficial volar ramus of the radial artery. Where does the ulnar artery give off its deep volar ramus? On the skin of your own palm draw a line with a colored pencil cor- responding to the position of the arcus volaris superficialis. Branches: (a) Common volar digital arteries (Aa. digit ales volar es communes) (0. T. palmar digital arteries). {aa) Volar digital arteries proper {Aa. digitales volares pro- priae) (0. T. collateral digital arteries). Note the point where the Aa. digitales volares communes receive the Aa. metacarpeae volares II.-IV. from the deep volar arch. Observe the relations of the digital arteries to the accom- panying nerves; the relations of the proper digital differ from those of the common digital arteries. Median Nerve in Palm (N. medianus). (Fig. 35.) How does this nerve enter the palm? Note its relations to the ligamentum carpi transversum and to the mucous sheath of the flexor tendons. Study the following branches: (a) Mnscnlar rami {rami miisculares) to M. abductor pollicis brevis, M. flexor pollicis brevis (capnt superficialis), and M. opponens pollicis.