INTRODUCTION 19 at the beginning, err, if at all, upon the side of over-exactness and over-carefulness in the use of instruments, in the methods of handling anatomical objects, and in the isolation of the details of structure. He should at first force himself to follow estab- lished rules and regulations rigidly; if desirable, later on in his work he may allow himself more latitude. He should aim to make his dissection such that he may at any moment and without embarrassment turn it over to an instructor who may wish to deliver a lecture on the part; he should aim to do his work so carefully that an artist may satisfactorily make a drawing of it to illustrate a text-book. While a large portion of the student’s time in the early part of the dissection is occupied with the technique of the work, learning how to find the various structures and to demonstrate them properly, he should not forget that the mere mechanical side of the work, important as it is, is not the only side. It is necessary that he should also study the structures carefully, learn their names, examine their relations, and, above all, under- stand their significance. Atlases, text-books, models, and moist and dry preparations should be assiduously used in connection with the dissection of the part, if the student is to acquire in the anatomical laboratory the knowledge and skill which it is de- sired that that laboratory shall give him at the beginning as a basis for his other medical studies. INSTRUMENTS NEEDED. Each student should provide himself with a good set of dis- secting instruments made by a reliable manufacturer. They should be made of good steel, properly tempered and well ground. It is false economy to buy cheap instruments or to secure a set at second hand. The quality of the student’s work will be much influenced by the kinds of instruments he uses and the state in which he keeps them. A good set of dissecting in- struments will not cease to be valuable to the medical student when he finishes his dissection, but will be found convenient for many purposes during his subsequent practical life. The sets supplied by the manufacturers vary greatly in ex- tent and quality, and the student may find it advantageous to make up a set for himself, choosing the individual instruments from stock, rather than to purchase any regular dissect!ng-case offered. As a minimum the student should possess: