LABOKATOKY MANUAL OF HUMAN ANATOMY 272 (w) Coimiioii carotid plexus {plexus caroticus communis). (o) Lai’yiig'opliaryiigeal rami (rami laryngopkarijngei). (p) Ascending pharyngeal plexus (plexus phargyigeus ascendens). (q) Superior cardiac nerve (N. cardiacus superior). (r) Middle cardiac nerve (N. cardiacus medius). (s) Subclavian lot)]) (ansa subclavia [Vieussenii'\). (t) Inferior cardiac nerve (N. cardiacus inferior). (m) Subclavian plexus (plexus subclavius). (r) Internal mannnary plexus (plexus mammarius internus). (w) Inferior thyreoid plexus (plexus thgreoideus inferior). (:c) Vertebral plexus (plexus vertebralis). Note that all the above, except (a), {i), (o), (g), (r), (5), (t), are plexuses about the larger arteries. Lateral Straight Muscle of the Head (M. rectus capitis lateralis). (Vide Spalteholz, Fig. 304.) Clean the muscle; find its origin and its insertion. What is its action? What nerve supplies it? Find the ramus anterior of the first cervical nerve. How is it related to the M. rectus capitis lateralis? How is the first loop of the plexus cervicalis formed? Divide the attachment of the M. rectus capitis lateralis close to the transverse process of the atlas and turn the muscle upward. Sever the origin of the M. obliquus capitis superior.. Find the nerve to the M. rectus capitis lateralis and follow it to its origin fromdhe first cervical nerve {N, snhoccipitalis). STRUCTURES IN FOSSA CRANII MEDIA. Removal of Dura Mater. (a) Cut through the dura mater just lateral from the openings through which the III., IV., and V. nerves pass, from the processus cli- noideus anterior to the apex pyramidis (0. T. tip of petrous bone). (b) Cut through the dura mater from the apex pyramidis backward and lateralward along the line of the sinus petrosus sujierior as far as the sulcus sigmoideus. (c) Cut through the dura from the processus clinoideus anterior lateral- ward and forward along the posterior margin of the ala parva of the sphenoid bone to its lateral extremity. Lift the dura carefully, keeping the edge of the knife close to the membrane, and thus avoid injury to the nerves attached to it beneath.