483 ABDOMEN AND PELVIS The loops of the jejunum will be found in the superior half of the regio mesogastrica and on each side of the vertebral column; the convolutions of the ileum are situated in the lower half of the same region, in the regio hypogastrica, and in the pelvis. The convolutions occupying the space between the two psoas muscles are the most mobile. They are the most frequent content in inguinal and femoral herniae. Determine the rela- tions of the small intestine to the colon transversum and its mesocolon above; to the intestinum caecum and colon ascendens on the right and colon descendens and colon sigmoideum on the left; to the annulus inguinalis abdominalis and annulus femor- alis below and lateralward, and to the urinary bladder, uterus, * and rectum in the median plane of the body. What factors are concerned in maintaining the loops of the small intestine in their normal position? What is enteroptosis? Removal of the Intestines. Apply two ligatures around the upper end of the jejunum about two inches below the flexura duddenojejunalis. Cut between these. Cut through the blood-vessels and the remaining fold of peritoneum of the mesentery along the line of their at- tachment to the intestinal wall as far down as four inches above the ileocaecal junction. Apply two more ligatures there and cut between them. The intestine should now be taken to the sink, the ligatures removed, and all contents of the bowel thoroughly washed away. Remove a small piece of equal length from each end of the intestine and weigh. Which is the heavier? Which has the thicker walls? Feel them between the fingers. To what is the greater thickness of the one due? Which is the more vascular? Which has the larger lumen, the jejunum or the ileum? Remove about six inches from the upper part of the jejunum, open it along its mesenteric border, and thoroughly clean the mucous membrane. Spread it out carefully and pin it down upon a cork dissecting tray, with the serous surface upward, and study its coats. Coats of Small Intestine. (a) Serous coat {tunica serosa). (&) Muscular coat {tunica, muscularis). {ha) Longitudinal layer {stratum longitudinale). {bb) Circular layer {stratum circulars). (c) Submucous coat {tela submucosa).