157 DISSECTION OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY (/*) Latei’al marginal vein (T\ marginalis lateralis). (g) Medial marginal vein ( F. marginalis mediaUs). Trace these veins proximahvard and determine their relation to the large saphenous vein (F. saphena magna) and the small saphenous vein (F. saphena parva). Nerves. (See Fig. 56, p. 143.) Refer frequently to charts in the study of cutaneous nerves and determine the exact area of skin supplied by each. (a) Saphenous nerve {N. saphenus). (aa) Medial cutaneous branches of leg [rami cutanei cruris medialis). (b) Branches of lateral cutaneous nerve of calf {N. cutaneus surae). (c) Superficial peroneal nerve {N. peronaeus superficialis). {d) Terminal twigs of deep peroneal nerve {N. peronaeus profundus), (e) Dorsal digital nerves {Nn. digitales dor sales). (/) Lateral dorsal cutaneous nerve {N. cutaneus dorsalis lateralis), from the N. tibialis. Carefully remove the superficial fascia, preserving the struct- ures which you have dissected, and expose the deep fascia. Deep Fascia of the Leg (Fascia cruris). (Figs. 64 and 67.) Observe that this fascia is continuous with the fascia lata; note also its shiny, aponeurotic character just below the knee, where it gives origin to muscles. Trace the fascia downward, noting that it tends to become thinner distalward, but is strength- ened just above the ankle to form the transverse ligament of the leg (ligamentuyn transversum cruris) (0. T. upper or broad part of anterior annular ligament). Note the exact points of attach- ment of the ligament and observe that it sends a septum to the tibia, thus forming two compartments, one medial for the M. tibialis anterior, one lateral for the M. extensor longus hallucis and M. extensor longus digitorum. The fascia cruris becomes continuous below with the dorsal fascia of the foot (fascia dorsalis pedis), the latter being continuous at the sides of the foot with the plantar aponeurosis (aponeurosis plantaris). In the fascia dorsalis pedis examine the Lig. cruciatum cruris (0. T. lower part of anterior annular ligament). Determine the exact attachments of the two limbs of the Y of this ligament, and their relations to the tendons of the muscles over which they pass. A good description is given in Spalteholz’s Atlas, p. 356. Observe the band passing from the lateral malleolus to the pos- terior prominence of the os calcis; this is the retinaculum Mm. peronaeorum superius (O. T. external annular ligament). (Fig. 67.)