231 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD AND NECK the relation of each to the ligainentum trausversum scapulae superiiis. Make a drawing of the part of the posterior triangle dissected and read in your systematic text-book descriptions of the various structures. Broad Muscles of the Back (Second Layer). (Fig. 96.) The larger and smaller rhomboid muscles {M. rhomhoideus major, M. rhomhoideus minor) have been worked out by the dis- sector of the arm and may be conveniently reviewed. Broad Muscles of the Back (Third Layer). (Fig. 96.) The dissector of the head and neck now proceeds with the dissection of the muscles of the back, and permits the dissector of the upper extremity to study the parts. Observe the fascia nuchae. (a) Superior posterior serratus muscle {M. serratus posterior superior). Note its form and position. Establish its exact origin and inser- tion. Test its action. Is it concerned in inspiration or expiration? Find the nerves supplying it. What are they called? Is it a monomeric or a polymeric muscle? Divide it close to its attachment to the vertebral spines and reflect it lateralward. (b) Inferior posterior serratus muscle (M. serratus posterior inferior). (c) Splenius (“bandage’’) muscle of head {M. splenius capitis). {d) Splenius muscle of neck (M. splenius cervicis) (0. T. splenius colli). Lumbodorsal Fascia (Fascia lumbodorsalis). (Vide Figs. 5 and 6.) The posterior layer of this fascia is now visible. That por- tion which corresponds to the thoracic spine is often spoken of as the ‘ ‘ vertebral aponeurosis ’ ’; that portion corresponding to the small of the back is often called the ‘ ^ lumbar fascia. ’ ’ Examine the posterior layer of the fascia lumbodorsalis. What are its medial and inferior attachments? How is it at- tached lateralward? What becomes of it above? These ques- tions may be answered (1) by making an incision through it in the middle of the thoracic region and passing the handle of the scalpel medialward and lateralward, and (2) by dividing the lumbar portion by a vertical cut made two or three centimetres from the median line and raising it from the subjacent M. sacro- spinalis. Then displace the M. sacrospinalis medialward and expose the anterior layer of the fascia lumbodorsalis. How is the anterior layer attached medialward? Note the fusion of the anterior and posterior layers lateralward. Cut through the anterior layer close to its medial attachment and lift it from the