INTRODUCTION be made with sureness and steadiness and without anxiety. The student should keep his finger-joints niinhle, and should practise to accpiire increased mobility of these joints. The skill gained in the use of instruments in the dissecting-room may be of great value in subsequent surgical practice. The importance of having several belly-bladed knives and several knives with straight edges has been referred to above. No good dissector cares to use the same knife for working out skin, vessels, muscles, nerves, etc. There should be a division of labor” among scalpels. Hard, firm, tough tissues should be cut through only with the cartilage-knife or with a duller scalpel. Forceps.—These should be held in the left hand, like a pen,” between the thumb and first two fingers, the ring-finger and little finger being reserved for the support of the hand and never permitted to touch the instrument. The forceps should never he held ‘ ‘ in the fist. ’ ’ They should be grasped about the middle, not too high up, and the fingers should not be cramped, otherwise the hand tires too quickly. The support of the hand on its ulnar margin by means of the little finger and the ring- finger is important, as it helps to make the work more exact and more certain. Scissors.—These should be grasped by the thumb and middle finger. The scissors are generally used where the parts to be cut through are soft, yielding, and easily displaceable and do not offer much resistance to the edge of the knife. Scissors are much employed by many dissectors in the study of the viscera and of the blood-vessels. They are especially valuable in fol- lowing out through loose connective tissue or fat the finer branches of arteries and veins, which might be more easily cut if the knife were used. Like the straight-edged scalpel with a sharp point, scissors are useful in cutting in angles or corners and in deep places. Fat held in the forceps can be most easily removed with scissors. Very fine scissors are useful in the dis- section of delicate nerves and of the small muscles of the face and orbit, but in general scissors are little suited to the dissec- tion of muscles and nerves. Probe.—The flimsy probes usually supplied in dissecting sets are of but little use and should be discarded. The firm probe devised for use in Baltimore by Professor Mall is the best one available. Many students do a very large part of their dissec- tion with this probe. It is especially useful for the beginner, who is afraid of destroying important structures with the knife. The blunt dissection” which the probe permits of insures the