130 LABORATORY MANUAL OF HUMAN ANATOMY (d) Epicondyles of feimir. AVliich is the more prominent? (e) Line of the knee-joint. Flex and extend the leg to render this study easier. (/) Head of fibula {capitulum fibulae). Determine its relation to the tibia and femur. (g) Position of common peroneal nerve {N. peronaeus communis). What relation does it bear to the lateral hamstring muscle? Skin and Superficial Fascia. Make an incision in the middle line of the posterior surface of the thigh through the popliteal fossa from a point ten or twelve centimetres above the bend of the knee to a point ten centimetres below it. Two transverse incisions should next be made, one at each end of the vertical incision, and the flaps formed reflected medialward and lateralward respectively. (See Figs. 3 and 52.) Make the parts tense by means of a large block placed under the knee. Note the general characteristics of the superficial fascia. Re- move this fascia piecemeal, examining the following: (a) Twigs of posterior cutaneous nerve of thigh (TV. cutaneus femoris posterior) (0. T. small sciatic). In what part of this space does the terminal branch of this nerve pierce the deep fascia? (£>) Small saphenous vein (F. saphena parva). Preserve intact this vein and any of its radicles that you may find. What is the femoro- popliteal vein (F. femoropoplitea)(Vide Spalteholz, Fig. 509.) (c) Superficial lymphatic vessels {vasa lymphatica superficialia). (Vide Fig. 50.) Boundaries of Fossa Poplitea. The fossa poplitea is diamond-shaped. Its roof is formed by the deep fascia {fascia cruris), sometimes called the popliteal fascia.” Note carefully the density of this fascia. After the fascia has been studied, incise it in the median line and reflect each way. Care should be exercised to avoid injuring the com- municating fibular nerve {N. communicans peronaeus) and a bursa situated between the M. semimembranosus and the medial head of the M. gastrocnemius. Next study the lateral boundaries: (a) Biceps muscle {M. biceps femoris). (b) Semitendinosus muscle (Tlf. semitendinosus). (c) vSeniimembranosus muscle {M. semimembranosus). (d) Gastrocnemius muscle (Tlf. gastrocnemius). (da) Lateral head {caput laterale). (db) Medial head {caput mediate). {e) Plantaris muscle (Tlf. plantaris).