74 LABORATORY MANUAL OF HUMAN ANATOMY (c) Follow the medial margin {margo medialis) downward to the medial epicondyle {epicondglus medialis), and the lateral margin {margo lateralis) downward to the lateral epicondyle {epicondglus later- alis). Note that, though the margo lateralis is more salient than the margo medialis, the epicondylus medialis is more prominent than the epicondylus lateralis. Feel through the skin behind the medial epicondyle for the groove for the ulnar nerve {sulcus N. ulnaris). Press upon the nerve in your own arm (“funny bone,” or “ crazy bone”). Whence does the sensation seem to come? {d) Observe the prominence due to the olecranon (1) when the forearm is extended, (2) when the forearm is flexed. Standing in front of a living body, take the two elbow-joints in the palms of the two hands, with the forefinger resting on the tip of the olecranon, the thumb on the lateral epicondyle, and the middle finger on the medial epicondyle. Ask the person to flex and extend the fore- arms, and notice changes in relative position of bony points. Note the relative distance between the level of the olecranon and the epicondyles. The olecranon is a little nearer to the medial than to the lateral epicondyle, especially in children. Observe the free movement of the skin over the olecranon, due to a subcutaneous bursa. To what extent is the posterior surface of the ulna sub- cutaneous? Feel for the margins of the semilunar notch {incisura semilunaris). (e) Extend the forearm. Place the thumb of the left hand on the lateral epicondyle of the humerus; seize the hand with your right hand and rotate gently. Feel the rounded head of the radius {capitulum radii) rotating immediately below the epicondyle. (/) In the forearm palpate— {fa) Dorsal margin of ulna {margo dorsalis ulnae). {fh) Styloid process of ulna {processus stgloideus ulnae). {fc) Rounded head of ulna {capitulum ulnae). {fd) Styloid process of radius {processus stgloideus radii). {fe) Radial artery {A. radialis). {ff) The tendons about the wrist. Skin and Superficial Fascia. Cut through the skin in the middle line of the anterior sur- face of the upper arm and the volar surface of the forearm as far as the wrist. Make a circular incision around the forearm just proximal to the wrist-joint. Remove the skin, dissecting lateral ward and medial ward, hut take none of the fat of the superficial fascia with it. Preserve the skin, as it makes the best primary wrapping for the extremity in the intervals between dissection-periods. In the superficial fascia dissect out carefully the following: Nerves. (Cf. Fig. 20, and Spalleliolz, Figs. 702 and TOO.) (a) Inlercostobrachial nerves {Nn. intercostobrachiales) (0. T. inter- cosiohumeral).