DISSECTION OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY 73 Vessels and Nerves behind the Scapula. Cut tliroiigli tlie M. infraspinatus three centimetres from its insertion into the tuberculum majus humeri, avoiding injury to vessels beneath. Examine the bursa M. inf raspinati between the tendon of insertion of the muscle and the articular capsule of the shoulder-joint. Reflect the main body of the muscle cau- tiously backward and medialward. Cut through the M. supra- spinatus in a similar way and reflect it medialward. Study— (a) Transverse artery of scapula {A. transversa scapulae) (0. T. supra- scapular). Does it pass over or under the Lig. transversum scapulae supe- rius? How is the artery distributed? Find— {aa) Acromial ramus {R. acromialis) going through M. trapezius to rete acromiale. (b) Transverse vein of scapula (F. transversa scapulae). Of what vein is it a tributary? (c) Suprascapular nerve {N. suprascapularis). Does it pass over or under the Lig. transversum scapulae supe- rius? Review it to its origin from the supraclavicular portion of the brachial plexus. Note especially the branches— [ca) N. supraspinatus. {cb) N. infraspinatus. (d) Circumflex artery of scapula (A. circumflexa scapulae) (0. T. dor- salis scapulae artery). Study its exact course from origin to ter- mination. Note the opportunities for anastomoses about the scapula among its three main arteries— (1) A. transversa colli. (2) A. transversa scapulae. (3) A. subscapularis. Since (1) and (2) come from the A. subclavia (flrst portion) and (3) comes from the A. axillaris (third portion), the establishment of a collateral circulation after ligation of the subclavian or axil- lary between the origins of the arteries mentioned is seen to be easily possible. DISSECTION OF ARM AND FOREARM. Surface Anatomy. The principal features were studied at the beginning of the dissection. The student should now pay attention to certain special points, using his own arm or that of a companion as a control. (а) With the help of the photographs and accompanying key in Gerrish’s Anatomy (2d edition, Figs. 971 to 979), identify the surface promi- nences due to the various muscles of the arm and forearm. (б) Note that the vena cephalica runs in the sulcus bicipitalis lateralis and the vena basilica in the sulcus bicipitalis medialis.