158 LABOKATOHY MANUAL OF HUMAN ANATOMY Incise now the deep fascia longitudinally, midway between the tibia and fibula, but do not cut through the Lig. transversum cruris or the Lig. cruciatum cruris. Note that the fascia becomes continuous medialward with the periosteum of the tibia, and that iateralward it sends a sei)tum into the crista anterior of the fibula, forming the anterior [fibular] intermuscular septum {sep- tum hvtermusculare anterius [fihulare]) (0. T. anterior peroneal septum). This latter septum separates the contents of the “ anterior tibiofibular compartment” of the leg from the con- tents of the ‘‘ peroneal compartment.” The latter is bounded posteriorly by another septum going into the crista lateralis of Fig. 64. M. tibialis anterior Tibia Y. saphena magna Y. saphen us,^ ^ M. flexor digitorum longiis, M. tibialis ]}osterior A. tibialis posterior—^ N. tibialir— M. gastroenemius- t (eaput mcdiale) Tendon of the M. plantaris -- N. cutaneus surae medians' Membrana interossea cruris ' tibialis anterior .V. peronaeus profundus ,M. extensor digitorum longus Septum interrnuseidarc '' anterius ( fibulare) —M. extensor hallucis longus peronaeus superflcialis peronaeus longus -.Septum intermuseulare Ijosterius (flbulare) 'A. peronaea Lamina profunda']^ - Lamina superflcialisi .fasciae cruris 'Eamus anastomoticus jjeronaeus V. saphena jjarva Cross-section of the right leg a little above its middle. Surface distal to the cut. (After Toldt, Anat. Atlas, Wien, 1900, 2 Aufi., p. 642, Fig. 1023.) the fibula and known as the posterior intermuscular septum {sep- tum inter muscular e posterius) (0. T. posterior peroneal sep- tum). It will be studied later. Examine Fig. 64 carefully. Muscles of Anterior Tibiofibular Region. Use cross-sections to complete this study. Study the contents of the anterior tibiofibular osteofascial compartment. Clean carefully each muscle and determine its form, position, origin, insertion, action, and nerve supply. What are flexion and exten- sion of the foot? Study— (a) Anterior tibial muscle (il/. iihialis anierior) (0. T. tibialis anticiis). {b) Long extensor of digits {M. c.rtensor digitorum longus).