140 LABORiVTOKY MANUAL OF HUMAN ANATOMY < dissector of tlie abdomen. What bearing have the attachments of Scarpa’s fascia upon the distribution of extravasated urine? Dissect out and study carefully in the superficial fascia the following structures: Veins. {a) Large saphenous vein (U. saphena magna) (0. T. internal saphe- nous). {aa) Accessory saphenous vein (U. saphena accessoria), incon- stant. {h) Superficial epigastric vein (U. epigastrica superficialis). (c) Superficial circumflex iliac vein (F. circumflexa ilium superficialis). {d) External pudendal veins {Vv. pudendae externae). Arteries. (a) Superficial epigastric artery {A. epigastrica superficialis). (b) Superficial circumflex iliac artery {A. circumflexa ilium super- ficialis). (c) External pudendal arteries (Aa. pudendae externae) (0. T. super- ficial and deep external pudic arteries). (d) Inguinal rami of femoral artery (rami inguinales A. femoralis). Lymphatics. (Fig. 55.) (a) Inguinal lymph-glands (lymphoglandulae inguinales). Whence do they draw lymph? Whither does the lymph go from them? (b) Superficial subinguinal lymph-glands (lymphoglandulae subingui- nales superflciales). Whence do they draw lymph? Whither does lymph go from them? Nerves. (See Fig. 56, p. 143.) Avoid injury to the N. ilio-inguinalis, N. spermaticus externus, N. lumbo-inguinalis, and N. cutaneus femoris lateralis. These nerves are to be studied thoroughly a little later, when the rest of the skin on the anterior surface of the thigh is removed. Oval Fossa of Thigh (Fossa ovalis) (O. T. Saphenous Opening). The structures to be studied at and about the oval opening include— (a) Falciform margin (margo falciformis). (aa) Superior cornu (cornu superius). (ah) Inferior cornu (cornu inferius). (b) Covering of cribriform fascia (fascia cribrosa). (c) Junction of V. saphena magna with V. femoralis. (d) Lymph-glands. Remove with great care the superficial fascia of the region, beginning over the upper part of the M. adductor longus and M. pectineus, cleaning the deep fascia (fascia lata) lying beneath. Note that the latter is attached above to the posterior margin of