276 LABORATORY MANUAL OF HUMAN ANATOMY (a) Suprcaorbital nerve {N. supraorbitalis). {b) Frontal ramns {ramus frontalis). (c) Supratrochlear nerve {N. supratrochlearis). The peripheral distribution of these nerves has already been studied in the dissection of the face. Trochlear Nerve (N. trochlearis) (O. T. Patheticus, or Fourth Cran- ial Nerve). Carefully remove the fat along the medial wall of the orbit until the M. obliquus is found. On its hinder part find the troch- lear nerve. Notice the abundance of fat in the orbit {corpus adiposum orbitae). Lacrimal Nerve (N. la-crimalis). Look for it on the lateral wall of the orbit along with the A. lacrimalis above the superior margin of the M. rectus lateralis. Besides the branches to the lacrimal gland, secure the anasto- motic ramus to the zygomatic nerve {ramus anastomoticus cum N. zygomatico). The student will recall having studied the ter- minals of the N. lacrimalis {rami palpebrales) in the dissection of the upper eyelid. Elevator Muscle of Upper Eyelid (M. levator palpebrae superioris). Study this muscle carefully. On lifting it, the minute branch of the N. oculomotorius innervating it may be seen approaching it from the upper surface of the M. rectus superior. Lacrimal Glands. {a) Superior lacrimal gland {glandula lacrimalis superior). (b) Inferior lacrimal gland {glandula lacrimalis inferior). (c) Accessory lacrimal glands [inconstant] {glandulae lacrimales cCc- cessoriae). {d) Excretory ductules {ductuli excretorii [Gl. lacrimalis]). Fascia of Eyeball (Fascia bulbi [Tenoni]) (O. T. Capsule of Tenon). Divide the N. frontalis in the middle of the orbit and reflect the stumps. Cut through the M. levator superioris in the middle and reflect. With the point of a sharp narrow-bladed knife make an oblique valvular opening into the eyeball at the junction of cornea and sclera. Introduce the tip of a blow-pipe and inflate the eyeball with air. On withdrawal, the valve-like character of the opening prevents the escape of the air. Pick up with