ABDOMEN AND PELVIS 451 ANTERIOR ABDOMINAL WALL. Inflate the abdominal cavity {cavuni abdominis) by means of an aspirating needle and bicycle pump, and make the following incisions through the skin only (vide Fig. 7) : (1) Along the anterior median line from the level of the tip of the xiphoid process to the nioiis pnbis; carry the knife around the umbilicus, leaving it intact. (2) From the upper limit of the first, transversely around the body, as far back as possible. (3) From the lower limit of the first to the tuberculum pubicum, thence over the ligamentum inguinale to the spina iliaca anterior superior and along the iliac crest as far back as possible. Reflect the flaps so formed, taking no fat with the skin, but leaving intact the layer beneath {fascia superficialis) and the vessels and nerves which ramify in it. Superficial Fascia (Fascia superficialis). Observe the distribution of fat, especially in the hypogastric region; the dense white band of tissue {linea alba) in the ante- rior median line; the arrangement of the superficial fascia in two lay^ers, especially in the hypogastric region; superficially the fascia of Camper, and more deeply the fascia of Scarpa. Dissect out the structures in the superficial fascia, preserving them carefully: Arteries. (Vide Fig. 9.) (a) Superficial circumflex artery of ilium (A. circumflexa ilium super- ficialis) (0. T. superficial circumflex iliac artery). (b) Superficial epigastric artery (A. epigastrica superficialis). (c) External pudendal arteries (Aa. pudendae externae) (0. T. exter- nal pudic arteries). Veins. (a) Parumbilical vein (F. parumhilicalis). (h) 'Thoraco-epigastric vein (F. thoraco-epigastrica). (c) Superficial epigastric vein (F. epigastrica superficialis). (d) External pudendal veins (Fr. pudendae externae). (e) Superficial circumflex vein of ilium (F. circumflexa ilium super- ficialis). Nerves.^ (Vide Fig. 8.) (a) Anterior cutaneous rami of intercostal nerves {rami cutanei ante- rior es). ^ Regarding the variations in the nerves of the abdominal wall, see the paper by Professor Bardeen in the American Journal of Anatomy, vol. i.. No. 2, p. 203. I