478 LABOKATOKY MANUAL OF HUMAN ANATOMY the arteries. From what larger sympathetic plexus are the nerves of this plexus derived! Mesenteric Lymph-glands (Lymphoglandulae mesentericae). (Vide Fig. 249, and Toldt, Fig. 1083.) I How large are these glands! Where are they most numer- ous.! Do you find any along the intestinal margin of the mesen- tery! Examine the .lymph-nodes in the mesocolon {ly^npho- glandulae mesocplicae). What is the course and destination of the lacteals! Inferior Mesenteric Vessels and Nerves. Turn the loops of the small intestine to the right side of the body cavity. Remove by blunt dissection the peritoneum of the posterior abdominal wall and that passing from the posterior abdominal wall upon the colon descendens and colon sigmoideum. Study— (a) Inferior mesenteric artery {A. mesenterica inferior). (Vide Fig. 250, and Spalteholz, Fig. 465.) (aa) Left colic artery {A. colica sinistra). Determine with what vessels'this artery anastomoses above and below. Does it form arcades before the intestinal branches are given off! (ab) Sigmoid arteries {Aa. sigmoideae). (ac) Superior hemorrhoidal artery {A. haemorrhoidalis superior). This artery descends into the pelvis between the layers of the pelvic mesocolon, and is found upon the posterior surface of the rectum. Its distribution will be studied in a later dissection. When it reaches the rectal ampulla it divides into two branches which descend upon the sides of V - the rectum as far as the anus. (b) Inferior mesenteric vein (F. mesenterica inferior). (Vide Spalte- holz, Fig. 497.) i The beginning of this vein Avill be found later when the dissection of the rectal wall is made. Two large lateral tributaries will be found which run upon each side of the rectum. They unite to form the— {ba) Superior hemorrhoidal vein (F. haemorrhoidalis superior). An anastomosis is established in the rectal wall between the systemic and portal circulation. Hemorrhoids often de- velop as a result of disease of the liver or occlusion of the portal vein. Why*? {bb) Sigmoid veins {Vv. sigmoideae). {be) Left colic vein (F. colica sinistra). What relation does the V. mesenterica inferior bear to the artery! Into what large vein does it empty above! Use models to study the relation of this vein to the pancreas and the surrounding viscera.