LABORATORY MANUAL OF HUMAN ANATOMY 166 iucision already made in the dissection of the fossa poplitea down to the heel; at the distal extremity of this make a trans- verse incision extending for five centimetres along the margo pedis lateralis and margo pedis medialis. Reflect the flaps. Note the general characteristics of this fascia as regards the amount of fat contained, the general direction of its fibres, and the strength of the same. In it, dissect out carefully the fol- lowing ; Veins. (Vide Spalteholz, Fig. 509.) (a) Small saphenous vein {vena saphena parva) (0. T. external saphe- nous vein). What is its relation to the malleolus lateralis*? Note that it is the continuation of the lateral marginal vein of the foot {vena marginalis lateralis) into the leg. In the upper half of the leg this vein is ensheathed by a duplicature of the fascia cruris. Dissect out the two branches into which it bifurcates above and trace these out into the vena pox)litea and the vena femoris 2^'^'ofunda. What is the relation of the vena femoro- poplitea to the latter*? Trace one of the perforating veins through the fascia cruris. Incise the vein longitudinally and determine whether it has valves or not. (b) Large saphenous vein (Th saphena magna) (0. T. internal saphe- nous). Determine its relation to the malleolus medialis. It is the continuation of the medial marginal vein {vena marginalis medialis) of the foot into the leg. Do you find a collateral vein accompanying it*? When present, it will be found just posterior to the large vein. Incise the vein longitudinally and determine the characteristics of its valves. Nerves. (Fig. 69.) (a) Nerve of the calf {N. suralis) (0. T. short saphenous nerve). This nerve is formed by the union of the following: {aa) Medial cutaneous nerve of the calf {N. cuianeus surae medialis). In the greater part of its course this nerve will be found beneath the fascia cruris. At the middle of the leg it pierces this fascia to become subcutaneous. {ah) Anastomotic peroneal branch of the N. cutaneus surae lateralis {ramus anastomoticus peronaeus). {h) Lateral cutaneous nerve of calf {N. cutaneus surae lateralis) (0. T. nervus communicans fibularis). (c) Posterior cutaneous nerve of thigh {N. cutaneus femoris p>osterior) (0. T. small sciatic). This nerve will be found beneath the fascia cruris. It sends twigs through the fascia to end in the skin. {d) Medial cutaneous branches {rami cutanei cruris mediates) to the leg from the N. saphenus. Determine the area of skin supplied by each nerve. Remove the superficial fascia of the leg, and study the deep fascia.