LABORATORY MvVNUAL OF HUMAN ANATOMY 458 Examine the excretory duct of the testicle {ductus deferens). Note its consistence. Is it resistant to the touch? Determine its length. What is its course and what are its relations to the impor- tant structures with which it is associated? Arteries. (1) Internal spei'inatic artery {A. sj^ermatica interna). (2) Extei’iial spermatic ai’tery (A. spermatica externa) (0. T. cremas- teric artery). (3) Deferential artery (A. deferentialis) (0. T. arteiy of the vas deferens). Determine from what vessel each is derived, the relation that they bear to each other and to the component parts of the fnnicu- 1ns sperniaticns. Cross-sections should be used to determine these relations. (See Poirier et Charpy, t. v., Fig. 236.) Do these arteries anastomose with one another? Veins. Observe an anterior and a posterior group. (Cf. Poirier et Charpy, t. V., Fig. 238.) What is the pampiniform plexus {plexus pampiniformis) ? What is the general course of the spermatic veins (Vv. spermaticae) ? Into what veins do they empty? Is there any difference on the right and left sides? Nerves. {a) External spermatic nerve {N. spermaticus externus) (0. T. genital branch of genito-crnral). (b) Deferential plexus {plexus deferentialis). Note that the ilio-ingui- nal nerve {N. ilio-inguinalis) is found in the canal, but that it is not a constituent part of the spermatic cord. Lymphatics. Whence do they come and to what lymph-glands do they go? Round Ligament of Uterus [in Female] (Lig. teres uteri). (Vide Fig. 236.) Coverings. The coverings should be compared with those of the funiculus sper- maticus in the male. Note differences. What is the canal of Nuck? Arteries. {a) External spermatic artery (A. spermatica externa), a branch of the A. epigastrica inferior. [Later the course of the A. ovarica, which corresponds to the arteria spermatica interna, will be studied.] Dissect out the terminal branches of this artery in the mons pubis and the labium niajus. (b) Artery of round ligament, a small artery occasionally found within the cellular tissue of the round ligament, which anastomoses with a branch of the A. uterina. Veins. Many veins accompanying the round ligament appear mostly on the surface. They communicate with the uterine veins, the veins of the labia majora and clitoris.