149 DISSECTION OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY Sartorius Muscle and Hunter’s Adductor Canal (M. sartorius et Canalis adductorius [Hunteri]). (Figs. 59 and 60.) Eeinove the fascia lata from the distal two-thirds of the thigh, leaving, however, the iliotibial band on the lateral surface. Clean the M. sartorius carefully, watching for the nerves which are near it or pass through it. Study its form, position, origin, in- sertion, action, and innervation. Whence has it received its name f What is meant by ‘‘ Hunter’s canal” or the adductor canal” {canalis adductorius [Hunteri])! Note that it is the continuation distalward of the lacuna vasorum. How is the V. femoralis A. femoralis Fig. 60. M. vastus medians N. saphenus I Aponeurotic union between the M. vastus medialis and the M. adductor viagnus {ante- rior wall of the canalis ad-' ductorius) M. sartorius Ca7ialis adductorius . [Hunteri] V. saphena magna . M. adductor magnus, M. gracilis^- A. perforans J/. semimembranosus-'' M. rectus femoris M. vastus intermedins ..Fascia lata M. vastus lateralis Septum interimisc7ilare (femoris) laterale M. biceps femoris (capid breve) '•■N. ischiadicus M. biceps femoris (caput longum) . M. semitendinosus Cross-section of the right thigh through Hunter’s canal, a little above the opening in the adductor magnus muscle. Surface distal to the section. (After Toldt, Anat. Atlas, Wien, 1900, 2 Aufl., p. 641, Fig. 1021.) canal or tunnel formed? Study the constituents of the walls of the canal. Cut through the fibrous expansion forming the ante- rior wall of the adductor canal and study the contents of the canal. How do the femoral vessels leave the canal to enter the popliteal space? Describe the opening in the M. adductor mag- nus {hiatus tendineus adductorius). At what point do the N. saphenus and the A. genu suprema leave the canal ? Study the lower part of the A. femoralis and its relations. Examine the following branches: t (a) Muscular rami {rami musculares). What muscles are supplied bv these ?