100 LABORATORY MANUAL OF HUMAN ANATOMY to the pulp, (2) dorsal, to the bed of the nail. On the terminals hnd the form of terminal corpuscle known as the Pacinian corpuscle {corpuscula lamellosa [Valeri, Pacini]). Volar Ramus of Ulnar Nerve in Hand (Ramus volaris manus N. ulnaris). (Fig. 35.) Note position of volar ramus of ulnar nerve in wrist (between ligamentum carpi volare and ligamentum carpi transversum). Observe branching as follows: (a) Deep ramus {ramus profundus). Note its disappearance between M. abductor digiti quinti and M. flexor digiti quinti brevis. It will be studied later. (h) Superficial ramus {ramus superficialis). {ba) Ramus muscularis to M. palmaris brevis. {bb) Common volar digital nerve {N. digitalis volaris communis). Fig. 36. A. Thenar Aa. metacarpeae volares M. adductor pollicis Deep fascia of the palm ^ Tendon of the M. flexor l)ollicis tongas princeps pollicis M. interosseus dorsalis 1\'. N. interosseus volaris III. Hypothenar Aa. metacarpeae dorsales, II. and III. Tendons of the M flexor digitorum profundus and Mm. lumbricales superfleial | Fascia of the back I of the hand Arcus volaris superficialis Aponeurosis palmaris Cross-section of the palm of the hand through the bases of the metacarpal bones. Frozen section. Hand pronated. (After Toldt, Anat. Atlas, Wien, 1900, 2 Aufl., p. 621, Fig. 1000.) 1. Ramus anastomoticus cum N. mediani. 2. Rami cutanei to skin of palm. 3. Proper volar digital nerves {Nn. digitales volares proprii),— VIII. to ulnar side of ring-finger; IX. to radial side of little finger. {be) Proper volar digital nerve {N. digitalis volaris proprius),— X. to ulnar side of little finger. Find the muscular rami given otf by this nerve to the muscles of the hypothenar eminence. Transverse Carpal Ligament (Ligamentum carpi transversum) (O. T. Anterior Annular Ligament). (Cf. Spalteholz, Figs. 363- 365-) Contrary to statements in many books, this ligament is not directly continuous either with the fascia antibrachii or with the