25 INTRODUCTION In addition, the part should be thoroughly wrapped in gauze or cheese-cloth saturated with a three per cent, solution of car- bolic acid or other preserving fluid and held in place by twine. It is convenient to have a large quantity of the preserving fluid in a tub in the dissecting-room, out of which the wrappings may be wrung by hand or by a laundry wringer. The gauze or cheese- cloth should be folded into a convenient shape and size.—a few inches longer than the part to be covered and about eighteen inches wide. After being moistened in the preservative fluid, it may be wrapped about the part and secured by tapes or twine. Such a covering is readily and quickly removed when the part is required for work. It is also very useful for covering such portions as are not immediately under dissection or study. As an additional protection against drying, a piece of oil-cloth, about a foot square, is advisable for the hand, foot, and face. As soon as possible after the cadaver is placed on the table, the student should take charge of his part, wrap it up, and attach to it a label bearing his name. Not only in the intervals between the dissection periods, but also during working hours, care should be taken to prevent dry- ing. Parts not in actual use should be kept covered, for even two hours’ exposure causes drying which deteriorates the mate- rial. The portion of the dissection actually being worked upon should be moistened occasionally with a wet sponge. The best results are attainable only if the material be kept in good condi- tion; it is not possible to restore dried-out material to as good condition as it was in before drying or partial drying. Especial care should be taken to protect parts belonging to students not present. The cadaver should be kept raised on dissecting-blocks, so as to allow free drainage away of the fluids which otherwise cause the under parts to become macerated and offensive. The drain- pipe in the centre of the table must be kept unobstructed. Cleanliness about the dissection-table should be cultivated. Bits of fat and connective tissue which are removed should never be allowed to contaminate the wrappings of the part or the table itself. They should be collected on a piece of paper or cloth and then thrown into the refuse-pail. The student should leave his dissection and the dissection-table in perfect order and condition at the close of each day’s work. A little care exercised in the formation of orderly and cleanly habits at this period of his development will be of great service to the student in his sub- sequent work.