449 ABDOMEN AND PELVIS Nerves. {a) Doi’sal nerve of clitoi’is {N. dorsalis cUtoridis). Detennine the exact course of this iiei’ve. What relation does it bear to the dorsal artery of the clitoris and to the d(n‘sal vein? What relation does the latter vein bear to the lij>'anientuni arcua- tiini pubis and the ligamentuni transversuni pelvis? Demonstrate the presence of a part of the glandulae vestibulares majores in the “ middle compartment of the perineum.” Urethra. Note the general direction and extent of the urethra in the female. What is its relation to the anterior vaginal wall? (Vide Figs. 231, 291, and 293.) The superior boundary of the diaphragma urogenitale is formed by the superior fascia of the urogenital diaphragm (fascia diaphragmatis urogenitalis superior) (0. T. deep or posterior layer of triangular ligament). Note that these (the superior and inferior) layers fuse pos- teriorly and become continuous with the deep layer of the super- ficial fascia of the perineum, or Codes’ fascia.” Anteriorly they also fuse to form the transverse ligament of the pelvis (ligamentiim transversum pelvis). The dorsal vein of the cli- toris separates the latter from a ligament just below the pubis, which is known as the arcuate ligament of the pubis (ligamentum arcuatum pubis). ANAL REGION (REGIO ANALIS) AND DIAPHRAGM OF PELVIS (DIAPHRAGMA PELVIS) IN BOTH SEXES. Review at this stage of the dissection the general character- istics and disposition of the fascia in this region. After having reviewed this, remove it by blunt dissection. External Sphincter Muscle of Anus (M. sphincter ani externus). (Figs. 222-224, 231, 273, 289.) Clean this muscle, noting carefully its form, position, origin, insertion, action, and innervation, and dissect out the following layers, proceeding from without inward: (a) External layer (“superficial sphincter” of Cruveilhier, the “skin muscle” of Luschka). It is inserted into the skin about the anus. (b) Anococcygeal layer, formed by the fibres arising from the coccyx and the ligamentum anococcygeum, encircling the anus and inserted 29