LABORATORY MANUAL OF HUMAN ANATOMY 468 meeting at its superior border. The double layer of peritoneum thus formed, passing between the stomach and the transverse fissure of the liver, is called the lesser or gastrohepatic omentum (omentum minus). Lesser Omentum (Omentum minus). (Figs. 241, 245, 246.) Examine the thickened right border, the hepatoduodenal liga- ment {ligamentum Jiepatoduodenale); the remaining portion is sometimes referred to as the hepatogastric ligament {ligamen- tum hepatogastricum). How many layers of peritoneum help to form this lesser omentum? What relation do these layers bear to the different peritoneal cavities? From which primitive mesentery is the omentum minus derived? Mesentery (Mesenterium). (Fig. 252.) What is the length of attachment to the posterior abdominal wall? This attachment is called the root of the mesentery {radix mesenterii). What is the length of the attachment to the bowel? What is the greatest length between its two attachments? Note carefully between which vertebrae the mesentery ex- tends ; also its general direction. It divides the abdominal cavity {cavum abdominis) into an upper right and a lower left compartment. (Cf. Waldeyer’s Kolon nischen.) Determine the relation of the radix mesenterii to the pancreas and to the terminal portion of the duodenum. (Vide Poirier et Charpy, t. iv.. Fig. 494; Spalteholz, Fig. 563.) Mesocolon (Mesocolon). (a) Ascending mesocolon (mesocolon ascendens). It is found in only twenty-six per cent, of the cases in the adult. (Treves.) How do you explain its absence in the remaining- seventy-four per cent., while it is constantly present in the embryo? For a discussion concerning the factors leading up to the disappearance of these different peritoneal folds and the fixation of organs previously mobile, see Poirier et Charpy, 2 ed., t. iv,, Fig. 498. What is ToldPs theory? What are the “fasciae of fusion”? Read about the relation of this fascia to the head of the pancreas, the right kidney, and the right ureter. What is the fascia of Treitz? From what is it derived and what relation does it bear to the head of the pancreas? (b) Transverse mesocolon (mesocolon transversum). Note the general direction of this mesocolon. How many layers of peritoneum form this fold, and to which peritoneal sac does each belong? Is the arrangement in the adult the same as in the embryo? Determine