238 LABORATORY MANUAL OF HUMAN ANATOMY It will be well also to remove the posterior wall of the spinal canal in the sacrum and coccyx. The cord lying in its external covering, the dura mater, or pachymeninx spinalis, is now exposed. Notice the interspace between the third and fourth lumbar vertebrae. This is the site of Quincke’s '' lumbar puncture. ’ ’ Here a needle can be intro- duced into the cavum subarachnoideale during life without danger. Read carefully the description of the veins of the spinal column and study Spalteholz, Figs. 493 and 494. Examine carefully— (a) Spinal ramus of posterior ramus of each intercostal arteiy (ramus spinalis rami post. A. intercostalis), passing through an interver- tebral foramen. (Cf. Spalteholz, Fig. 462.) (b) Spinal ramus of posterior ramus of each lumbar artery (ramus spi- nalis rami post. A. lumhalis). (c) Spinal rami of vertebral artery (rami spinales A. vertehralis) and the spinal rami of the ascending cervical artery (rami spinales A. cervicalis ascendentis). Spinal Meninges. (Fig. 98.) Clean the external surface of the dura mater, removing fat and areolar tissue. Lift the dura gently with fine forceps, and, with fine, sharp scissors, cut through the dura mater spinalis in the middle line -throughout its whole length. Take great care not to injure the spinal arachnoid {arachnoidea spinalis). Trace the terminal thread of the dura mater {/Hum durae matris spi- nalis) to its bony attachment. Note that the dura mater spinalis corresponds to the inner layer of the dura mater encephali, the outer layer having fused with the periosteum of the vertebral canal. The space {cavum epidurale) between the lining of the vertebral canal and the dura mater spinalis contains the plexus venosi, which in turn correspond to the cerebral sinuses. Note disproportion between the size of the cord and the size of the dura mater, especially in the regions where the mobility of the vertebral column is great. Observe the fibrous filaments from the anterior middle line of the dura which run obliquely down- ward ventralward to be inserted into the ligamentum longitudi- nale posterius; note their excessive development and fusion from the fourth lumbar vertebra downward; this is the liga-' mentum sacrodurale anterius {ligament sacre anterieur of Tro- lard). (Cf. Poirier et Charpy, iii.. Fig. 77.) What is its function? Note the dural sheaths of the nerve roofs.