60 LABORATORY MANUAL OF HUMAN ANATOMY this oval opening to the fossa ovalis of the thigh, of the thin mem- brane covering it to the cribriform fascia, of the axillary arch to the cornu sni)erins of the inargo falciformis, and of the brachial arch to the cornu inferius of the margo falciformis. {b) The continuity of the fascia axillaris lateralward with the fascia brachii and with the fascia enclosing the M. latissimus dorsi and Mm. teretes major et minor; it becomes inserted into the axillary margin of the scapula. (c) The continuity of the fa.scia axillaris medialward, not with the fascia pectoralis, but with the fascia coracoclavicularis, which encloses the M. pectoralis minor. (Fig. 13.) The membrane extending from the axillary fascia to the lower border of the M. pectoralis minor was formerly called the suspensory ligament of the axilla {ligament suspenseur of Gerdy). Fig. 13. - Clavicula M. subscap Bundle of nerves and vessels M. teres min M. teres maj M. lat. dorsi... A-M. subclav. w Fascia coracoclav. --M. pect. min. —M. pect. maj. ---Axillary arch Sagittal section of the axillary fossa. (Very schematic.) (From Poirier et Charpy, Traite d’Anat. hum., Paris, 19U1, t. ii. p. 105, Fig. 128.) {d) The passage through the oval opening (and the cribriform fascia covering it) of the intercostobrachial nerves {Nn. intercosto- brachiales) (0. T. intercostohumeral nerves). These represent the lateral cutaneous rami of the second and third intercostal nerves {rami cutanei laterales Nn. intercostalium II. et III.). It is inter- esting that the vena basilica may occasionally bear the same rela- tion to the oval opening that the vena saphena magna bears to the fossa ovalis in the thigh; the usual condition, however, is for the V. basilica to pass beneath the deep fascia a little above the elbow. {e) Later in the dissection, the reflections of the axillary fascia upon the arteries and nerves going to the forearm. Structures in the Fossa Axillaris. (See Figs. 14, 15, and 16.) The fascia axillaris may now be reflected backward, care being taken to dissect out carefully the intercostobrachial nerves. The structures in the axillary fossa are to be isolated and