DISSECTION OE THE LOWER EXTREMITY 145 below Poiipart’s ligament to within two or two and a half cen- timetres of the spina iliaca anterior superior, so as to sever the attachment of this portion of the fascia lata from the ligament. Retlect the fascia and margo falciformis downward and lateral- ward. Carefully pick out the fat and deep subinguinal lymph- glands immediately subjacent, so as to expose the connective tissue sheath of the femoral vessels. With the handle of the scalpel gently separate the sheath from Poupart’s ligament in front and from Gimbernat’s ligament medialward from it. What is the shape of the femoral sheath? Note the points where it is perforated by— (a) Lumbo-ing’uinal branch of genitofemoral nerve. (b) Large saphenous vein. (c) Lymph-vessels. By a study of the cadaver, the use of models and a systematic text-book of anatomy, ascertain how it is that the anterior wall of the femoral sheath represents the continuation into the thigh of the fascia transversalis of the abdomen, the posterior wall of the sheath the continuation of the fascia iliaca of the abdomen. Next open the femoral sheath by making three parallel and vertical incisions, the first over the femoral artery, the second over the femoral vein, and the third one centimetre medial from the second. The incisions all begin above at the Lig. in- guinale [Pouparti], the medial one being one centimetre long, each of the other two from three to four centimetres long. Note the septa, dividing the sheath into three compartments (Fig. 58)— (a) Lateral compartment. It contains the A. femoralis and the N. lumbo-inguinalis. (b) Middle compartment. It contains the V. femoralis. (c) Medial compartment (femoral canal or canalis femoralis) (0. T. crural canal). It contains a lymph-gland (Rosemniiller’s lymph-gland), some lymphatic vessels, and loose areolar tissue. Observe that the femoral sheath and its contents completely fill up the lacuna vasorum. How is the lacuna vasorum bounded? How is the lacuna musculorum bounded? What structures pass through the lacuna musculorum? This latter region will be dis- sected later. Introduce the little finger into the canalis femoralis. How long is it? How is it bounded? Locate exact position of superior 10