123 DISSECTION OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY (hiirsa subciitanea trochanterica). Draw the shortest possible line on the surface from the tuber ischiadiciuu to the spina iliaca anterior superior and note the relation which the upper extremity of the trochanter major bears to this line. Palpate the structures forming the boundaries of the popliteal fossa. Note the mobility of the skin over the malleoli (bursa subcutanea malleoli lateralis et medialis). Feel the tendons in the retro- malleolar fossa. Palpate the various bony prominences that can be felt about the ankle and foot, and identify each by comparison with the skeleton. GLUTEAL REGION (REGIO GLUTAEA). Make the following incisions (see Fig. 3) : (1) From the spina iliaca posterior superior along the crista iliaca as far forward as possible. (2) From the posterior extremity of this incision obliquely downward and medialward to the middle line of the sacral region, then vertically downward to the tip of the coccyx. (3) From the tip of the coccyx downward and lateralward over the back of the thigh, intersecting the sulcus glutaeus at its middle point, and terminating a little below the upper third of the thigh. The flap of skin thus formed should now be reflected lateralward, leaving intact the fat immediately beneath. There is now ex- posed to view— Superficial Fascia. Note the abundance of fat. How does the amount of fat contained compare in the male and female? Observe its tough, fibrous character over the tuber ischiadicum. This fascia should now be removed by blunt dissection. Find the following: Nerves. (Fig. 47.) (а) Middle nerves of buttock (Nn. clunium medii). These pierce the glutaeus maximus and the deep fascia in a line passing from the spina iliaca posterior superior to the tip of the coccyx. (б) Superior nerves of buttock {Nn. clunium superiores), crossing the crista iliaca at a point corresponding to the lateral limit of the attachment of the musculus sacrospinalis to the os ilium. (c) Lateral cutaneous ramus of iliohypogastric nerve {ramus cutaneus lateralis nervi iliohypogastrici). It generally crosses the iliac crest opposite a tubercle projecting from its outer lip, about two and one-half inches dorsal to the spina iliaca anterior superior. {d) Lateral cutaneous ramus of last thoracic nerve {ramus cutaneus lateralis N. thoracalis I.) (0. T. last dorsal nerve). This nerve crosses the iliac crest a short distance anterior to the preceding.