248 LABORATORY MANUAL OF HUMAN ANATOMY responds to the third eyelid, or membrana nictitans, of lower animals. The stream {rivus lacrimalis) of tears (lacrimae) run- ning over the conjunctiva passes to the medial angle of the eye. At the point on each lid where the eyelashes cease is a small eminence, the lacrimal papilla {papilla lacrimalis). These eminences are perforated, the openings looking like two minute black dots {puncta lacrimalia). The openings lead into small canals, lacrimal ducts {ductus lacrimales). Pass a fine bristle into each. The lacrimal apparatus will be further studied later. The Mouth-opening. Note that it is bounded by the two lips {lahia oris), one supe- rior {labium superius), one inferior {labium inferius). At the junction of the lips at the two angles of the mouth {anguli oris) are the commissures of the lips {commissurae labiorum). The slit between the lips is called the rima oris. Note the curious transition between skin and mucous membrane in the lip. Skin and Superficial Fascia. Observe the thinness and fineness of the skin of the face. Compare its mobility with that of other parts. Which portions are most firmly attached to subjacent structures? Are any comedones visible? Note the distribution of the hairs of the beard {barba). Observe the long, rather stiff hairs at the nose openings {vibrissae). Through the skin feel the external maxil- lary artery where it passes over the margin of the mandible. Distend the cheeks and lips with moist cotton and stitch the margins of the lips together with a fine needle. Make an incision through the anterior median line and re- move the skin of the face, taking no fat with it. Avoid injury to the upper part of the platysma, the. M. risorius, and the struct- ures of the eyelids. After the platysma has been carefully studied, it may be removed. Cutaneous Muscles of Face. (Vide Fig. 104.) Note that the majority of the muscles of the face and scalp have attachments to the skin; indeed, these muscles have been derived by progressive differentiation of a primitive cervico- facial cutaneous muscle; all of them are innervated by branches of the N. facialis, which is the nerve of the hyoid arch. Observe the tendency to a grouping around various orifices, the muscles acting as dilators or constrictors of these orifices. What part do these muscles play in facial expression?