502 LABORATORY MANUAL OF HUMAN ANATOMY Margins. {a) Posterior margin {margo posterior). (b) Anterior margin {margo anterior). Note especially the crenations in this anterior border. It is often referred to as the ‘ hnargo crenatus.” These crenations are of importance, as they enable the clinician to differentiate between enlargement of the spleen and of the kidney. The rounded prominence separating the gastric and renal surfaces is sometimes described as the margo intermedins. Examine the hilus of the spleen {hilus lienis). Four layers of peritoneum will be found at the hilus. The two anterior layers are derived from the ligamentum gastro- lienale, while the two posterior layers are derived from the liga- mentum pancreaticolienale. Determine from which peritoneal sac each layer of this peritoneum is derived, noting that the relation is the same as found in the omentum majus. Between the two layers of the ligamentum pancreaticolienale will be found the tail of the pancreas and the splenic vessels. Incise the spleen and examine— (a) Serous coat {tunica serosa). {h) Albugineous coat {tunica albuginea). (c) Splenic pulp {pulpa lienis). {d) Splenic rami of splenic artery {rami lienales [arteriae lienalis]). {e) Splenic lymph-nodules {noduli lymphatici lienales [Malpighii]) (0. T. Malpighian corpuscles). Instructive pictures of the splenic framework can be obtained by allowing the organ to decompose partially and then washing out the pulp and blood and drying by inflation through one of the veins. What is an accessory spleen {lien accessorius) 1 How many of these may be found, and where are they generally located! Review the development of the spleen and its relation to the mesogastrium posterius. Liver (Hepar). (Vide Figs. 266, 267, and Spalteholz, Figs. 579-581.) Review the development of the liver. Its position in the cadaver has already been studied. Use models to determine its exact relations, form, and position in a hardened body. Remove the liver from the abdominal cavity. Cut through the liga- mentum teres and ligamentum falciforme. Divide the triangular ligaments on each side and the upper layer of the coronary liga- ment. Separate the posterior surface of the liver from the dia-