18U LABORATORY MANUAL OF HUMAN ANATOMY Fourth Layer of Muscles of the Sole. (a) Plantar interosseous muscles {Mm. interossei planiares). {h) Dorsal interosseous muscles {M^n. interossei dorsales). Determine the form, position, origin, insertion, action, and innervation of each, and compare them with their homologues in the hand. Note that they are covered by a thin layer* of inter- osseous fascia {fascia interossea). The points of insertion of the M. tibialis posterior will now be exposed. Dissect out the different reflections of its tendons and determine to what bones each is attached. Dissect out the tendon of the M. peronaeus longus. Note that it runs in a sulcus covered over by the ligamentum longum plantae. Dissect down to the tendon and trace it to its insertion, noting the plantar synovial sheath {vagina tendinis M. peronaei longi plantaris). (Vide Spalteholz, Fig. 407.) What role does it play in maintaining the arch of the foot? JOINTS OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. The hip-joint has been studied already. The other joints should now be carefully dissected. Arterial Anastomosis about the Knee-joint. Before dissecting the knee-joint, review the various blood- vessels about the knee and study the most important anasto- moses. (Fig. 73.) Knee-joint (Articulatio genu). (Figs. 73-77.) Remove the popliteal vessels and nerves. The tendons of the muscles surrounding the joint should be left in place, so that their relations to the different ligaments may he studied. Divide the M. quadriceps extensor about eight centimetres above the patella and allow the lower part to remain in situ. Trace each of the articular arteries to its termination. Study the following: (a) Articular capsule {capsuJa articularis). {b) Fibular collateral ligameut {Lig. collaterale fbulare) (0. T. loug external ligameut). (c) Tibial collateral ligament {Lig. collaterale tibiale) (0. T. internal lateral ligament), {d) Oblique popliteal ligament {Lig. poplitenm obliquum) (0. T. pos- terior ligament). {e) Arcuate popliteal ligament {Lig. popUteum arcnaturn). Observe the retinaculum Lig. arcuati.