DISSECTION OF THE HEAD AND NECK 260 venae jugulavis superior) situated? What is the relation of this vein to the other structures contained within the “ vascular sheath” of the deep cervical fascia? Observe the entrance of the inferior petrosal sinus {sinus petrosus inferior) into the sui)erior bulb of the vein. Pass a probe through the sinus from the skull cavity into tlie bulb. Find the pharyngeal plexus {plexus pliaryngeus) and tributary veins {Vv. pharyngeae). The following tributaries of the internal jugular have been studied already, but they may now be reviewed with advantage: {«) Lingual vein (F. lingualis). {b) Superior thyreoid veins (T'r. thyreoideae superiores). (c) Common facial vein (F. facialis communis). Slit open the internal jugular vein and observe the valve. In what part of the vein is it situated? How many flaps are to be seen? Hypoglossal Nerve (N. hypoglossus). (Vide Figs. 92 and 112.) Divide the V. jugularis interna five centimetres below the base of the skull and turn the upper part upward so as to expose the N. hypoglossus better as it emerges from the canalis hypo- glossi (O. T. anterior condyloid foramen). Note the close con- nection of the nerve with the ganglion nodosum of the N. vagus. At what point does the N. hypoglossus enter the anterior triangle of the neck? Note its relation to the A. occipitalis. Demon- strate, if possible, the branches of communication (1) with the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, (2) with the gan- glion nodosum of the N. vagus, and (3) especially with the Nn. cervicales I. and II. What is the significance of the fibres to the N. hypoglossus from the cervical nerves? Make a list of (1) the muscles supplied by the N. h}"poglossus proper and (2) the mus- cles supplied by fibres of cervical nerves running in the N. hypoglossus. Review the branches of the N. hypoglossus already studied,—viz., (1) ramus descendens, (2) ansa hypoglossi, (3) ramus thyreohyoideus, and (4) rami linguales. Accessory Nerve (N. accessorius) (O. T. Spinal Accessory). (Vide Fig. 92.) What is its relation to the N. vagus and N. glossopharyngeus in the jugular foramen? Study— (o) Internal ramns {ramus internus) (0. T. accessory portion). Follow it to where it fuses with the N. vagus.