DISSECTION OF THE HEAD AND NECK 313 Observe that this ligament is simply the thickened lower margin of the quadrangular membrane. Next dissect away ou the right side the remains of the plica aryepiglottica, meiiibraua quadrangularis, plica ventricularis, plica vocalis, and conus elasticus, but leave the arytaenoid and corniculate cartilages undisturbed. Remove the cuneiform car- tilage from the right aryepiglottic fold and preserve it for subse- quent study. The left wail of the cavity of the larynx may now be thoroughly studied, and any points not well made out in the preliminary study of the cavity before it was opened should be cleared up before going further. Vessels and Nerves of Larynx. The dissection of the vessels and nerves of the interior of the larynx should now be undertaken. (a) Internal ramus of superior laryngeal nerve {ramus internus N. laryn- gei superioris). (aa) Ramus anastomosing with inferior laryngeal nerve {ramus anastomoticus cum N. laryngeo inferiore) (0. T. Galen’s loop). Make traction on this nerve outside the larynx where it pierces the membrana hyothyreoidea and cut through the tunica mucosa laryngis on the inner surface of this mem- brane and find the nerve and artery. Gradually dissect off the tunica mucosa and expose their branches. What is the function of the internal ramus of the N. laryngeus superior ? {b) Inferior laiyngeal nerve from the recurrent nerve {N. laryngeus in- ferior N. recurrentis) (0. T. recurrent laryngeal nerve). To see it well, draw the thyreoid cartilage well lateral- ward. {ba) Anterior ramus {ramus anterior). What muscles are innervated by it ? {bb) Posterior ramus {ramus posterior). What muscles does it supply? (c) Superior laryngeal artery {A. laryngea superior). {d) Inferior laryngeal artery {A. laryngea inferior). Cartilages and Ligaments of Larynx. Some of these have already been examined. Remove the rest of the mucous membrane and the muscles from the cartilages, taking care not to injure the ligaments or the smaller cartilages. Study— Epiglottis and its Ligaments. {a) Epiglottis. {aa) Stem of epiglottis {petiolus epiglottidis).