26 INTRODUCTION CLOTIilNG. The better methods of preserving the material for dissection prevalent nowadays have removed some of the unpleasant feat- ures of the occupation. It is not possible, however, to avoid all odor or all contamination, and the student should, therefore, go to the dissecting-room clad in a manner which will permit him to work freely and without constant worry lest his clothing come into contact with the material. Hence it is necessary to have an old coat to be kept for use in the dissecting-room only, and it is preferable to change the whole suit on entering and on leaving the room. As a roomful of men garbed in old coats is not a pleasing spectacle, it is the custom in modern anatomical labora- tories to wear white cotton gowns over all. The student should, therefore, provide himself with three such gowns, so that he may always have the soiled ones laundered while the clean one is being worn. Gowns other than white should be avoided, as should the various oil-cloth sleeves and aprons formerly so much used. No inconsiderable part of the depressing influences of the old-time dissecting-room consisted of the dirty floors, the untidy tables, the tobacco-smoke, the spittoons, the oil-cloth sleeves and aprons, and the multicolored or checked gowns. Dissection is a serious task, requiring much energy and en- durance. Under the best conditions the student tires all too quickly. It is important, therefore, that the sanitary conditions of the room be the best possible, that as comfortable a position as practicable be assumed in dissecting, that the dress be one which while externally uniform throughout the room will permit of the greatest freedom in work, and that all depressing in- fluences be as far as possible removed. DRAWING IN GROSS ANATOMY. The student should not try to draw all that he sees, but only so much as is important in the stage represented. He should limit the contents of each picture to what can be shown clearly, and try to avoid unimportant detail. The drawing is to be made large enough to show clearly all that it contains. In general, it should be as large as the size of the drawing-paper will permit, allowing for the legend. It is well to make the drawing on a definite scale, and to record on it the proportion which the size of the picture bears to the natural size, using a fraction to express this,—e.g.^ Vsj V2? Vi? "/i? whatever the scale is.