LABORATORY MANUAL OF HUMAN ANATOMY 310 Glottis. The two plicae vocales together form the glottis (0. T. glottis vera), the slit between them being known as the rima glottidis. The rima glottidis is divisible into— (a) Intermembranoiis part {pars intermembranacea) (0. T. glottis vo- calis), the anterior longer part, between the plicae vocales. {b) Intercartilaginons part (pars intercartilaginea) (0. T. glottis respira- toria), the posterior shorter part, between the medial surfaces of the arytaenoid cartilages. The cavity below the rima glottidis—i.e., the inferior cavity of the larynx—is called the aditus glottidis inferior. It leads below into the trachea. Mucous Membrane of the Larynx (Tunica mucosa laryngis). Observe— (a) Mucous laryngeal glands {Gl. laryngeae). {aa) Anterior {Gl. laryngeae anteriores), in front of and behind the epiglottis. (ah) Middle {Gl. laryngeae mediae), on the plicae ventriculares, in the ventricles, and around the cuneiform cartilages. (ac) Posterior {Gl. laryngeae posteriores), in front of, in, and behind the M. arytaenoideus transversus. (h) Lymph-nodules of larynx {noduli lymphatici solitarii), especially on the posterior surface of the epiglottis and in the ventricles. Hyothyreoid Membrane and Laryngeal Muscles. With a probe stuff the ventricle of the larynx and its appen- dix full of moist cotton. Fasten the larynx with pins on a wooden block, the anterior surface upward. Find the ramus externus and ramus internus of the N. laryn- geus superior, the N. recurrens, the superior and inferior lar^m- geal vessels, and avoid injury to them in the subsequent dissec- tion. Remove the Gl. thyreoidea and the Mm. omohyoideus, sternohyoideus, sternothyreoideus, thyreohyoideus, and con- strictor pharyngis inferior. Clean and study the following structures: (a) Hyothyreoid membi’ane {membrana hyothyreoidea) (0. T. tliyi'O- hyoid membrane). Obsei’ve how it is perforated by the A. and V. laryngea superior and by the ramus internus N. laryngei snperioris. {aa) Middle hyothyreoid ligament {ligamentum hyothyreoideum m edium). {ab) Lateral hyothyreoid ligament {ligamentum hyothyreoideum laterale).