VI PREFACE contributions to knowledge by original investigation in bis department. There is no intention, however, to make word of mouth” instruction superfluous. On the contrary, it is hoped that the use of the Manual will make it possible for the in- structor to concentrate his attention upon, and to give better than before, that particular help to the student which comes alone through the personal encounter. Whether the effort to find the golden mean between the spoon-feeding” guide, on the one hand, and insufficient guid- ance, on the other, has been successful must be left to anatomical teachers to decide. The compilers have used the Manual in mimeograph form during the past year in the Anatomical Lab- oratory of the University of Chicago; instructors and students both feel that it has been distinctly helpful. The sequence of dissection and the methods of exposing the various parts are those almost universally adopted in the better English and American laboratories. They represent the expe- rience and traditions of more than a hundred years of careful anatomical work. The influence of the Edinburgh school of anatomists has become widespread, and the directions of one of the principal representatives of that school. Professor D. J. Cunningham, of Edinburgh, as embodied in his admirable Manual of Dissection, have been closely followed herein. The Laboratory Manual is not intended to take the place of a descriptive text-book (see p. 30) ; on the contrary, it is hoped and expected that it will act as a stimulant to the student not only to use in connection with it the best descriptive text-book and atlas available, but also to refer to various atlases and text- books, as well as original articles in the literature. Though it is realized that the average medical student has not the time to range far afield, it would seem highly desirable that he should at least gain an idea of the wide extent of the subject and that he should learn that it is not all included between the covers of a dissecting manual. The nomenclature employed is that which was formulated by the German Society of Anatomists and which is rapidly being adopted in many of the best English and American laboratories. There seems to be no doubt that this nomenclature will be the prevalent one for at least many years to come. The magnificent atlases of Spalteholz and Toldt, which have recently been pub- lished, employ it exclusively, and the student will find it a great convenience to have the terms used in his laboratory manual identical with those of his atlas. Unfortunately, only one’ or