DISSECTION OE THE HEAD AND NECK 305 {db) Middle palatine nerve [N. palatinus medius) (0. T. external l)alatine). {dc) Posterior palatine nei’ve [N. palatinus posterior). Near this note the tendinous expansion of the M. tensor veli palatini. Trace the N. nasopalatinus [Scarpae] also back to its origin. A better view still of the pterygopalatine fossa will be obtained if the orbital process {processus orbit alls) of the palate bone and a portion of the body of the sphenoid bone be cut away with bone-forceps. The terminal branches of the internal maxillary artery {A. maxillaris interna) should now be finally reviewed. INTRAOSSEOUS COURSE OF N. FACIALIS, N. INTER- MEDIUS, AND N. ACUSTICUS. The N. facialis and N. acusticus should now be followed from the internal acoustic meatus {meatus acusticus internus) in their course through the interior of the petrous portion of the tem- poral bone. Remove the temporal bone from the skull, fasten it firmly in a vice in its natural position, and remove the squama temporalis by sawing horizontally through it just above the level of the pars petrosa. Make a second horizontal cut through the pars petrosa just above the roof of the internal acoustic meatus; the vestibule {vestihuhim), cavity of the tympanum {cavum tympani), and mastoid cells {cellulae mastoideae) will thus be opened. Upon the mastoid wall {paries mastoidea) will be seen a prominent anteroposterior ridge {prominentia canalis facialis), due to the canal in which the facial nerve runs, the facial canal of Fallopius {canalis facialis [Fallopii']) (0. T. aqueduct of Fallopius). Notice that with this is continuous a part of the canal upon the labyrinthine wall of the cavum tympani, above and behind the stapes and the fenestra vestibuli (0. T. foramen ovale). Gain space by removing more of the roof of the tympanum {tegmen tympani) with bone-forceps; open up the facial canal on the labyrinthine wall {paries lahyrinthica) with a chisel and expose corresponding part of the N. facialis. Next expose the nerve in the proximal portion of the facial canal by chiselling away the roof of the internal acoustic meatus and following the nerve along forward and lateral ward. When the geniculate ganglion 20