424 LABORATORY MANUAL OF HUMAN ANATOMY minutes, then placed in cold water and dissected. Other fresh hearts should be distended under pressure, fixed and hardened in five or ten per cent, formalin for several days; windows may then be cut out in various ways in order to display internal structures. Follow the course of the muscle bundles {a) in the atria, (b) in the ventricles. Study the mode of formation of the vortex of the heart {vortex cordis). Look up the articles by Ludwig, J. B. MacCallum, and Betzger on the distribution of the heart-muscle fibres. Fibrous Rings of Heart (Annuli fibrosi). Cut away the atria with scissors. Examine the relative posi- tions of the orifices at the base of the ventricular portion of the heart. Study— (a) Right fibrous ring {annulus fibrosus dexter), around ostium venosum dextrum. (&) Left fibrous ring {annulus fibrosus sinister), around ostium venosum sinistrum. {ha) Fibrous trigones {trigona fibrosa). Trachea and Bronchi. Separate the ramus dexter from the ramus sinister of the A. pulmonalis and reflect each lateralward. Expose the trachea and bronchi thoroughly by drawing the arcus aortae aside and removing the bronchial lymph-glands {lymphoglandulae bron- chioles) in the angle of bifurcation of the trachea. Examine carefully the relations of the trachea. Note the level of the bifur- cation {bifurcatio tracheae) into the right and left bronchus {bronchus [dexter et sinister]). Look for the broncho-oesopha- geal muscle {M. broncho-oesophageus). Posterior Mediastinal Cavity and its Contents. To open the posterior mediastinal cavity {cavum media- stinale posterius) (0. T. posterior mediastinum), make a vertical cut through the pericardium along the oesophagus and reflect the pericardium lateralward. Look for the pleuro-oesophageal mus- cle {M. pleuro-oesophageus), extending across the aorta de- scendens from the oesophagus to the left pleura. In the cavum mediastinale posterius dissect out and study thoroughly the rela- tions of the following: