LABORATORY MANUAL OF HUMAN ANATOMY 204 SIDE OF NECK. Examination of Surface. Review the names of the regions of the neck. In the middle line feel the hyoid bone; run the finger along its body and make out the greater cornua. A finger-breadth lower the thyreoid cartilage is reached. Examine it in detail. Lower still, palpate the cricoid cartilage, the cricothyreoid space, and the trachea. Can you make out the thyreoid gland! Ascertain the vertebral levels of the hyoid bone, the cricoid cartilage, and the upper border of the manubrium. Make deep pressure in upper part of supraclavicular fossa and feel transverse process of seventh cervical vertebra. Is there a cervical rib present! Make also deep pressure over the line of the carotid vessels at the level of the cricoid cartilage and feel the prominent anterior tubercle of the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra. This is the so-called ‘‘ carotid tuber- cle” (Chassaignac’s), an important landmark to the surgeon, since the A. carotis lies directly anterior to it. Palpate through the skin the anterior margin of the M. trape- zius, the clavicle, the upper border of the manubrium, the lower margin of the mandible, and the mastoid process. Note the exact position of the M. sternocleidomastoideus, separating the anterior from the posterior triangle of the neck. Above the manubrium note the jugular fossa (fossa jugularis), sometimes called the ‘‘ suprasternal fossa” or fonticulus gutturis”; it is especially marked in marasmus. Skin, Superficial Fascia, and Platysma. The skin is thin and rather loose. Place a large block beneath the shoulders and put the parts upon the stretch. Make three incisions (see Pig. 82a, p. 195) : (1) in the linea mediana ante- rior from the chin to the manubrium; (2) from the middle of the upper margin of the manubrium lateralward along the clavi- cle to the acromion; (3) from the processus mastoideus obliquely downward and medialward along the anterior margin of the M. sternocleidomastoideus to the angle formed by incisions (1) and (2). Reflect the anterior triangular flap upward and the posterior one backward. In the superficial fascia, compare the amount of fat present in your subject with that in the cadaver of the opposite sex. Note the relative abundance of fat between the chin and the hyoid bone. To what is double chin” due! Take care to avoid