G7 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY branches carefully and follow them to their terminations, com- paring their behavior with the text-book descriptions. Deal simi- larly with the axillary vein and its tributaries. Subclavius Muscle (M. subclavius). Clean it. Examine its form, position, origin, insertion, action, and innervation. With a small hand-saw excise the middle third of the clavicle. Eeflect the M. subclavius. Brachial Plexus (Plexus brachialis). (Fig. 17.) Divide the M. pectoral is minor four centimetres from the coracoid process and reflect the two portions lateralward and medialward respectively, avoiding injury to the medial anterior thoracic nerve. Examine the continuity of the axillary artery and vein with the subclavian artery and vein. Ligature the ar- tery in two places at level of clavicle and cut between. Cut vein similarly. Turn axillary vessels downward. Clean thoroughly the nerves making up the brachial plexus. Study carefully the formation of the plexus, using the cadaver before you, Tra- mond’s models, and text-book descriptions. Does the plexus in your cadaver differ from the type ordinarily described? If so, how? Make a careful drawing of the plexus in your subject, with its various branches, labelling each neatly. Note that the plexus can be divided into a supraclavicular portion {pars supraclavicularis) and an infraclavicular portion {pars infra- clavicularis). All the short branches are counted as belonging to the former, even though they do not actually come off until the trunks are below the clavicle. In conjunction with the dissector of the head and neck, study the Pars supraclavicularis. (a) Posterior thoracic nerves {Nn. tJioracales posteriores). (aa) Dorsal nerve of scapula {N. dorsalis scapulae) (0. T. nerve to rhomboids). {ah) Long thoracic nerve {N. thoracalis longus) (0. T. external respiratoiy nerve of Bell). (b) Anterior thoracic nerves {Nn. thoracales anteriores). {ha) Lateral (0. T. external). {hh) Medial (0. T. internal). (c) Subclavian nerve {N. subclavius). {d) Suprascapular nerve {N. suprascapularis). {e) Subscapular nerves {Nn. subscapulares). {f) Thoracodorsal nerve {N. tlioracodorsalis) (0. T. middle or long subscapular). {g) Axillary nerve {N. axillaris) (0. T. circumflex).