ABDOMEN AND PELVIS 469 its relation to the dnocleniim, the head of the pancreas, and the duodenojejunal angle. What is the length of this mesocolon? Does it readily permit of displacement of the colon? Note that the peritoneal relations of the lirst })art of the transverse mesocolon depend somewhat upon the j^osition and size of the liver. (Vide Cunningham, p. 1033.) (c) Descending mesocolon {mesocolon descendens). The descending colon is tixed in eighty-five per cent, of the cases {Jonnesco and Charpy) ; in sixty-four per cent. (Treves). The disappearance of the primi- tive mesocolon descendens is accounted for by ToldCs theoiy. De- termine the relation of the fascia remaining to the left kidney and ureter. Determine with accuracy the relation of the left kidney to the descending colon. Do you find any paracolic fossae {recessus paracolici) ? (d) Sigmoid mesocolon {mesocolon sigmoideum). Note its general direc- tions and relations. (Vide Cunningham, p. 1035.) The length of this mesocolon bears a relation to the frequent torsion of the bowel {volvulus) occurring here. Does the length of this part of the in- testine differ in carnivora, herbivora, and omnivora? Where does the mesocolon sigmoideum end? Mesorectum. Where does the mesorectum begin? How is it related to the sacral vertebrae? How far is it attached to the rectum? After having made a careful study of these different perito- neal folds, the student should turn the omentum and transverse colon up on to the thoracic wall and proceed to the study of— Peritoneal Fossae about the Duodenojejunal Angle. (Vide Fig. 247; Cunningham, p. 1018; Poirier et Charpy, t. iv. pp. 265-267.) (a) Inferior duodenal fossa {fossa duodenalis inferior). How frequently is this fossa present? Determine its relation to the terminal portion of the duodenum and to the vertebrae. Is this fossa vascular? What is the inferior duodenal plica {plica duodenalis inferior) ? Determine depth and width of this fossa, comparing it with fossae found in other subjects. (&) Superior duodenal fossa {fossa duodenalis superior). This fossa is found in about fifty per cent, of the cases, occurring less constantly than the preceding. What relation does it bear, if present, to the second lumbar vertebra and the body of the pancreas? What is the superior duodenal plica {plica duodenalis superior) ? Is this fossa vascular? If so, determine what vessels course in the plica. The two fossae frequently occur together. If both are present in your subject, compare as to depth, width, vascular relations, etc. (c) Duodenojejunal fossa {fossa duodenojejunalis of Jonnesco). This fossa occurs in about twenty per cent, of the cases and is never coincident with the other fossae found at this flexura. Determine the relation that this fossa bears to the aorta, the left kidney, and the left renal vein. What are the plica duodenojejunalis dextra and sinistra?