176 LABORATORY MANUAL OF HUMAN ANATOMY Superficial Fascia of Sole. This fascia consists of but one layer, and resembles the fas- ciae of the palm of the hand and of the scalp. Note the peculiar character of the fat and its disposition. Thick fibrous processes will be found which connect this fascia to the skin. Dissect away this fascia carefully and study the following: Bursae. (a) Subcutaneous calcanean bursa {bursa suhcutanea calcanea). (Vide Spalteliolz, p. 3dS.) {h) Bursa in the ball of the great and of the little toe. Occasionally a small artery and nerve may be found passing into these bursae. When inflamed they are very painful. How may the formation of these subcutaneous bursae be accounted for? V eins. {a) Digital plantar veins (Vv. digitales plantares). (h) Plantar venous arch {arcus plantaris venosus). {ba) Intercapitular veins {Vv. intercapitulares), single or dou- ble, passing between each pair of toes to join the Vv. digitales dorsales. (c) Plantar venous network {rete venosum plantare). Determine the exact course of the venous blood coming from the sole of the foot. Nerves. {a) Medial calcanean branches of the tibial nerve {rami calcanei N. tibialis). {b) Cutaneous branches of the plantar nerves. Lymphatics. Determine the exact course of the lymphatics of the sole of the foot. (Vide Toldt, Fig. 1090.) Plantar Aponeurosis (Aponeurosis plantaris.) Remove now the superficial fascia and study the aponeurosis plantaris. (Vide Spalteholz, Fig. 397.) Note the density of this aponeurosis. It is attached poste- riorly to the os calcaneum and passes forward to cover the whole of the musculature of the foot. It is attached to the medial and lateral margins of the foot, and passes without interruption into the fascia of the dorsum of the foot. This aponeurosis, like the palmar aponeurosis, may be divided into a middle, a medial, and a lateral part. How does the strength of the middle part compare with that of the medial and lateral parts? Trace this medial part forward, after having determined its posterior attachment; dissect out the five proc- esses into which it divides. Determine their relations to the Ligg. vaginalia and the phalanges. Dissect out carefully the transverse bundles {fasciculi transversi).