42 LABORATORY MANUAL OF HUMAN ANATOMY finger is the third {digitus III., or digitus medius), the ring- finger is fourth {digitus IV., or digitus anmdaris), and the little finger is fifth {digitus V., or digitus minimus). Notice the rela- tive lengths of the digits, especially the relation of the length of the index-finger to that of the ring-finger. Is this constant? In the hand make careful drawings of the ‘‘ back of the hand” {dorsum manus) and of the flattened hollow of the hand” {vola manus, s. palma), also of the ‘‘ thumb side” of the hand {margo radialis) and of the little finger side” {margo ulnaris). In each digit distinguish the facies dorsalis from the facies volaris and the margo radialis from the margo ulnaris. In the upper extremity what is meant by the proximal direction” or a proximal part”? what by the distal direction” or a distal part”? In the drawings of the upper part of the trunk or chest {thorax) show its relation to the belly {abdomen). In the back {dorsum) look at and feel the spines of the vertebral column {columna vertebralis). Number these in your drawing and pay especial attention to the exact level of each and the relations of other parts {e.g., scapula) to their levels. Designate the spine of vertebra C. VII. separating the neck from the back. Illustrate the position of the projections corresponding to the ribs {costae) and number them. Note especially the rib-levels of the papilla mammae and of various portions of the scapula when the arm is in different positions. Draw the breast and show the depression between the two breasts, the so-called bosom {sinus). Below the bosom, just under the sternum, indicate the flattened so-called heart fossa” {scrohiculus cordis). Show the limits of the areola mammae about the nipple, and, if Montgomery’s glands {glandulae areolares [Montgomerii]) are visible, picture them. Draw in certain lines useful in topographical anatomy: (1) Anterior median line {linea mediana anterior). (2) Posterior median line {linea mediana posterior). (3) Sternal line {linea sternaUs), along the lateral margin of the sternum. (4) Mammillaiy line {linea mammillaris), falling perpendicularly through the nipple. (5) Parasternal line {linea parasternalis), midway between sternal and mammillaiy lines. (6) Costo-articular line {linea costo-articularis), from the sternoclavicu- lar articulation to the tip of the eleventh rib. (7) Axillary line {linea axillaris), perpendicularly from the centre of the fossa axillaris. (8) Scapular line {linea scapularis), perpendicularly through the lower angle of the scapula.