29 INTRODUCTION tive brightness of objects of different colors.) All surfaces so directed as to receive and reflect most of this light to the ob- server’s eye will be brightest (unshaded, or having high lights”); those directed away from the light will be darkest (shaded, or in shadow) ; while surfaces having an intermediate direction will be shaded less or more according as they approach one or other of the above extremes. A plane surface will have uniform light or shading. Rounded surfaces will have graduated shading; areas separated by sharp edges will have abrupt differences of shading, the contrast being greater the smaller the angle between the adjacent areas, or, in other words, the greater the difference in their direction. In rounded objects the highest light and the deepest shade are sit- uated close to, but not at, the edge of the outline. All the shading should be kept right in relation to the deepest shadow. The student should examine book-illustrations and observe how shading is represented, (a) Some degree of depth may be given in a mere outline drawing by making the lines on the lower right side of the objects heaviest, (h) Plain parallel lines are used for shading in ‘‘ line” drawings. The depth of shading is varied by the heaviness of the lines, their distance apart, and by cross-hatching” or putting additional sets of shade-lines over the first at very acute angles of crossing.^ (c) The pencil may be held obliquely and rubbed most on the parts to be shaded, giving a photographic effect, (d) Some of the lead of the pencil may be scraped off with a knife and applied to the drawing-paper by means of a paper stump, giving a means of rapid working, but one that is apt to give a smudgy effect, (e) Wash-drawings are shaded either by repeating the wash or by using a stronger wash on the shaded parts. (/) A softer pencil may be used for the deeper shading. Finally, it is well to ‘ ‘ pick out ’ ’ the high lights with a soft eraser, (g) Dots may be used instead of lines, as in stippled drawings, Ross-board drawings, and half-tone illus- trations. Colors may be utilized to differentiate structures,—e.g., red for arteries, blue for veins, brown for muscles, green or orange (or plain black) for nerves. Good crayons are useful here. Hig- gins’s inks of various colors may be used in pen work. Washes are very effective also. As a rule, all color should be used very sparingly, and so should shading. ^ Sometimes the shading lines are curved in conformity to curvatures of the surfaces depicted, as may be seen in old wood-prints, steel engravings, and mechanical drawings.