138 LABORATORY MANUAL OF HUMAN ANATOMY Lymphatics. (Fig. 50.) Do you find any lymphatic vessels'? If so, determine their course and distribution. Are any lymph-nodes {lymphoglandulae) to be found in this region? Great Adductor Muscle (M. adductor magnus). After having completed the dissection of'the popliteal sur- face, divide the conjoined tendon of the M. semitendinosus and M. biceps, exposing the origin of the M. semimembranosus. After studying the origin of this muscle and charting the length and breadth of its origin, reflect it downward. Determine accurately the relation of the M. adductor magnus to the linea aspera. What is the adductor tubercle? The form, position, origin, insertion, action, and innervation of the great adductor muscle can best be studied later. Anastomosis upon the Back of the Thigh. (Fig. 54.) What vessels enter into the formation of this anastomosis? How would the circulation to the leg be carried on if the common femoral artery were ligated? Where may the femoral artery be ligated most advantageously, and with the greatest possi- bility of the establishment of a collateral circulation? ANTERIOR SURFACE OF THIGH {FACIES FEMORIS ANTERIOR). Skin and Superficial Fascia of Upper Part of Anterior Surface of Thigh. Make the following incisions: (a) From the spina anterior superior along the line of the inguinal liga- ment of Poupart to the symphysis pubis. {h) From the medial extremity of (a) downward, just lateral from the scrotum and along the medial surface of the thigh for a distance of ten centimetres. (c) From the lower extremity of (b) transversely lateralward over the anterior surface of the thigh to its lateral aspect. Raise the quadrilateral flap thus outlined, taking no fat of the superficial fascia with it. In the superficial fascia of the lower part of the anterior abdominal wall two layers are demonstrable,—(1) more super- ficial (Camper^s fascia), fatty, continuous with the fatty super- ficial fascia of the thigh; and (2) a deeper layer (Scarpa’s fascia), devoid of fat, inserted into the fascia lata a little below Poupart’s ligament. Study this fascia in conjunction with the