LABORATORY MANUAL OF HUMAN ANATOMY 474 neuiii! Demonstrate three methods by which the pancreas can be exposed anteriorly. How can the kidney be reached from the anterior abdominal wallf What structures may be taken as guides to it! Note espe- cially the relation of the kidneys to the ascending colon and de- scending colon, duodenum, and liver. Locate accurately the position of the appendix. Do the longi- tudinal bands ]3assing out on to the caecum ever serve as a guide 1 What are these longitudinal bands calledf The tip of the appen- dix is found sometimes directly beneath the liver. How do you explain this! After having gained an accurate knowledge of these different folds, fossae, etc., the student should trace the peritoneum longi- tudinally and transversely, demonstrating that the layers form- ing the greater and lesser sacs are continuous. Transverse tracings should be made {a) at the level of the foramen epiploi- cum [Winslowi] and (b) at a level below the transverse colon. (See Figs. 245 and 246.) Use transverse sections of a body hardened in formalin in this study.^ Superior Mesenteric Artery (A. mesenterica superior) and its Branches. (Fig. 248.) Turn the great omentum and transverse colon upward upon the thorax. Eemove the anterior leaf of the mesentery by blunt dissection from the flexura duodenojejunalis downward as far as the terminal portion of the ileum; remove the peritoneum passing from the posterior abdominal wall upon the intestinum caecum and colon ascendens and also the inferior layer of the mesocolon transversum. Study the following branches of the superior mesenteric artery. (Vide Fig. 248, and Spalteholz, Fig. 466.) (a) Inferior pancreaticoduodenal artery {A. pancreaticoduodenalis in- ferior). (b) Intestinal arteries (Aa. intestinales). (ba) Jejunal arteries (Aa. jejunales). {bb) Ileal arteries {Aa. ileae) (0, T. rami intestini tenuis). (c) Ileocolic artery {A. ileocolica). (ca) Appendicular artery {A. appendicularis). (d) Right colic artery (A. colica dextra). {e) Middle colic artery (A. colica media). ■ See foot-note, p. 403. For a method of making cross-sections consult Pro- fessor C. M. Jackson’s paper in the Jour. Am. Med. Assoc.