237 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD AND NECK (c) Posterior rami of lumbar nerves {rami posteriores Nn. lum- balium). (<?a) Medial rami {rami mediales). {cb) Lateral rami {rami laterales). {d) Posterior rami of sacral and coccygeal nerves {rami posteriores Nn. sacralium et coccygei). Opening the Vertebral Canal. Carefully remove all muscles and tendons from the spinous processes and arches of the vertebrae from the occipital bone to the tip of the coccyx, avoiding injury, however, to the posterior rami of the spinal nerves {rami posteriores Nn. spinalium). Place high blocks under the thorax and let the head hang over the end of the table. The vertebral canal {canalis vertehralis) may be opened from behind in any one of four ditferent ways: (a) with the double rhachiotome, {h) with a saw, {c) with mallet and chisel, {d) with bone-forceps. {a) With the Double Rhachiotome.—Place the saws of Luer’s double rhachiotome on the cervical portion of the vertebral column; seize the handle with the right hand, pressing down from above upon the rhachi- otome with the left hand; saw (in the direction in which the teeth are set) with quick, rapidly repeated strokes through the vertebral arches. As soon as the saw has gone through, the same process is repeated a little lower down, and so on until the whole posterior wall of the vertebral column has been cut through as far as the last lumbar vertebra. Between the last lumbar vertebra and the sacrum cut through the ligamenta flava; introduce the vertebral forceps below the posterior arch of the last lumbar vertebra, seize hold of it and, grasping the forceps with both hands, tear away in one piece the whole posterior wall of the vertebral canal from the lumbar region to the occipital bone. If the cervical portion be not quite sawn through, apply the rhachiotome again and cut in a reverse direction. (6) With a Saw.—One may use a simple saw, cutting through first one side and then the other. The saw should pass close behind the articular processes and should be directed slightly obliquely, so that the cut passes a little medialward in the depth. It may be necessaiy to use the hammer and chisel also. Neelsen recommends the use of the “ fox-tail saw.” (c) With Mallet and Chisel.—The vertebral arches may be chiselled instead of sawn through, if desired, but the tyro is apt to injure the cord. Special chisels (one for each side) are manufactured for the purpose, but a good heavy plain chisel works well. {d) With Bone-forceps.—Cut through the root of each vertebral arch {radix arcus vertebrae) (0. T. pedicle) on each side, just ventral to the superior articular processes, and thus remove the whole posterior wall of the vertebral canal. This method has the advantage that it opens up all intervertebral foramina and permits of the removal of the spinal ganglia and the proximal portion of each spinal nerve along with the spinal cord.