LABORATORY MANUAL OF HUMAN ANATOMY 122 laris) behind it. In the foot note that the lateral margin {margo lateralis) rests on the floor when the body is erect. Examine the posterior surface {facies posterior) of the lower extremity. Observe the prominence of the buttocks {dunes or nates)^ separated from each other by the crena ani and from the thigh by the gluteal fold {sulcus glutaeus); behind the knee is the popliteal fossa {fossa poplitea). Examine its boundaries and extent. In the leg note the prominent calf {sura), and lower down the prominence due to the tendon of the calf muscles. In the sole of the foot {planta) observe the grooves in the skin {sulci cutis) and the ridges {cristae cutis) between. Observe the arch of the foot: it is higher on the medial than on the lateral margin. Note the ball of the great toe and the eminence of the little toe. On the medial surface {facies medialis) of the lower extrem- ity, observe the prominence due to the M. vastus medialis in the thigh, that due to the malleolus medialis at the ankle, and the curved medial margin of the foot {margo medialis pedis). After inspection the student should resort to palpation of these parts. In addition to what has been mentioned above, note the groove at the groin {sulcus inguinalis) and the depression in the subinguinal region corresponding to a deeper triangle {fossa Scarpae major, trigonum femorale) (0. T. Scarpa’s tri- angle). Can you feel the superficial lymph-glands {lympho- glandulae subinguinales superficiales) ? Note the mobility of the skin over the patella, due to a bursa {bursa praepatellaris sub- cutanea). Feel the ligament of the patella {ligamentum pa- tellae) and note the mobility of the skin over it {bursa infra- patellaris subcutanea). Flex and extend the knee-joint. What are the limits of movement? Feel the line of the joint during the movement. Palpate the condyles of the femur and of the tibia. Locate the tuberosity of the tibia and note the mobility of the skin over it {bursa subcutanea tuberositatis tibiae). Feel the anterior crest of the tibia. How much of it is immediately sub- cutaneous ? Feel the medial surface of the tibia and the tendons of the extensor muscles of the foot. In the front of the foot find the rounded bony prominence of the anterior end of the heel- bone {calcaneus), three or four centimetres anterior to the malle- olus medialis. Just anterior to this note the depression indi- cating the position of Chopart’s transverse joint of the ankle {articulatio tarsi transversa [ChoparW]). Run the finger along the iliac crest. Feel the sciatic tuber- osity {tuber ischiadicum) and also the greater trochanter {tro- chanter major); note the mobility of the skin over the latter