LABORATORY MANUAL OF HUMAN ANATOMY 214 border of the inferior belly {venter inferior) of the M. omo- hyoideus. Beneath the tendinous part of the M. omohyoideus, where it passes below the sternoniastoid, secure the small nerve- twig from the descending ramus of the hypoglossal nerve {R. de- scendens N. liypoglossi) which goes to it. How is the posterior triangle bounded in front, behind, and below? How is its apex formed? The inferior belly of the omohyoid muscle divides it into (a) an upper, larger part, the occipital triangle, and {h) a lower, very much smaller part, the supraclavicular triangle. Notice the chain of lymph-glands at the posterior border of the M. sternocleidomastoideus. They are often inflamed in diseases of the scalp {impetigo pedicularis). The Occipital Triangle. What are its boundaries? How is its floor formed from above downward? Observe among its contents the following: Arteries. (Vide Fig. 97, p. 236.) (a) Occipital artery {A. occipitalis) occasionally. {&) Transverse artery of neck {A. transversa colli). V eins. (a) Occipital vein (F. occipitalis). (h) Transverse vein of neck (F. transversa colli). Nerves. {a) Supraclavicular branches of the cervical plexus {Nn. supraclavicu- lar es). {h) Accessory nerve {N. accessorius) (0. T. spinal accessory). (c) Branches of cervical nerves to M. trapezius and to M. levator scap- ulae {rami musculares Nn. cervicalium). Many of these structures will be studied more particularly when the body is turned on its face and the back of the neck is dissected. The Supraclavicular Triangle (O. T. Subclavian Triangle). The fascia praevertebralis may be removed where it covers the vessels and nerves. Note its continuity with the axillary sheath. What are the boundaries of the supraclavicular tri- angle? Find and study the following structures, and compare each as found in the cadaver with the description in your text- book of systematic anatomy. Arteries. (Vide Fig. 16, p. 63.) {a) Third portion of subclavian artery {A. subclavia). {b) Transverse artery of neck {A. transversa colli). (c) Transverse artery of scapula (A. transversa scapulae) (0. T. supra- scapular).