70 LABORATORY MANUAL OF HUMAN ANATOMY Arteries. (a) Cutaneous rami of ramus acromialis and ramus deltoideus of A. tlioraco-acromialis. Veins. (a) Tributaries of cephalic vein. Nerves. (Fig. 18.) (a) Posterior supraclavicular nerves {Nn. supraclaviculares poste- riores) (0. T. supra-acromial branches). {h) Lateral cutaneous nerve of the upper arm {N. cutaneus brachii lateralis) (0. T. cutaneous branch of circumflex). Look for the trunk of this hooking around the posterior margin of M. del- toideus flve centimetres above its insertion; dissect it carefully throughout its course in the superflcial fascia. Deep Fascia. Remove the superficial fascia and study the appearance and attachments of— (a) Deltoid fascia {fascia deltoidea). (b) Subscapular fascia {fascia subscapularis). (c) Supraspinous fascia {fascia supraspinata). {d) Infraspinous fascia {fascia infraspinata). Deltoid Muscle (M. deltoideus) and the So-called Quadrilateral and Triangular Spaces. Hold the scapula down with hooks to make the fibres of the deltoid muscle tense, and carefully remove the deep fascia from its surface. Study carefully the form, position, origin, insertion, action, and innervation of the muscle. Note especially the three parts of tha< muscle corresponding to the three distinct muscles in the cat,—deltoclavicular, delto-acromia], and deltospinal of Strauss-Durckheim. How does the texture of the middle portion (delto-acromial) differ from that of the anterior and posterior portions? (Cf. Poirier et Charpy, Fig. 83.) Look for a subcu- taneous acromial bursa {bursa suhcutanea acromialis). (Cf. Spalteholz, Fig. 349.) Does one exist in your cadaver? Place the posterior surface of the limb on the table, and examine the area through which the A. circumflexa humeri pos- terior and the N. axillaris pass to the hack part of the shoulder. How is this area, ‘^quadrilateral space,” hounded above, below, lateralward, and medialward? Clean the surfaces and edges of the muscles of this region. What is the so-called “tri- angular space?” How is it hounded above, below, and lateral- ward? Follow the A. circumflexa scapulae (0. T. dorsalis scapulae) through this space. Place the anterior surface of the limb on the table, and ex- amine the boundaries of the quadrilateral and triangular spaces from behind.