2 17 INTRODUCTION The anatomical laboratory has the longest history of all the medical laboratories. The student has the experience of hun- dreds of years to draw upon. The best methods of isolating the various structures have been worked out and certain rules for dissection have been formulated; the student will do well to familiarize himself with these as early in his course as pos- sible. Careful, practical work in the dissection-room is the only means the medical student has of obtaining an independent view of the gross structures of which the human body is composed. Text-books, atlases, demonstrations, and lectures are useful aids, helpful in exciting interest, and favorable to the acquisition of powers of description and illustration; but the main part of the work in anatomy should consist of the student’s personal observation. He should learn to see what comes under his eye. He should try by his own independent activity to see all that is there, for the student who learns to see only what he is told to see or what is iDointed out to him will be spoiled for the study and practice of medicine. Many students in the past have entered the dissecting-room with an utter lack of independent power of observation, of ex- amination, and of description, and yet these three qualities are absolutely necessary for the man who is to engage successfully in the practice of medicine. While it is to be hoped that the advance in the requirements for admission to professional schools, leading as it does to observational work in physics, chemistry, and biology preliminary to the work of the medical course, will bring the students to our laboratories of anatomy better prepared than hitherto for the independent observation of anatomical structures, there can still be but little doubt that many students will learn how really to study and observe first in the dissecting-room. How important it is that the habits formed at this early period of the professional course should be such as will be of value to the student later, such as he would desire to have throughout his professional career! If he have learned to be exact and steady, systematic and thorough, cleanly