282 LABORATORY MANUAL OF HUMAN ANATOMY Fascia of Bulb (Fascia bulbi [Tenoni]) (O. T. Capsule of Tenon). Compare the fascia in the eye before you with a description of it in some good systematic text-book. Open the interfascial space {spatium interfasciale [Tenoni]). (Compare Lockwood, J. Anat. and Physiol., Lond., vol. xx., 1885.) What is meant by the fat body of the orbiC’ {corpus adiposum orbitae) 1 Zygomatic Nerve (N. zygomaticus) (O. T. Temporomalar Nerve). Find this nerve entering the orbit through the inferior orbital fissure {fissura orbitalis inferior) (0. T. sphenomaxillary fis- sure). Follow its two branches : (a) Zygomaticotemporal ramus {ramus zygomaticotemporalis) (0. T. temporal branch of temporomalar). (b) Zygomaticofacial ramus {ramus zygomaticofacialis) (0. T. malar branch of temporomalar). Recall where the terminals of these two rami were previously met with in the dissection. REGION IN FRONT OF CERVICAL SPINE (PREVER- TEBRAL REGION). Place the dissection upside down, the cut margin of the cra- nium resting on the table. Cut through the A. carotis coimnunis, V. jugularis interna, N. vagus and truncus sympathicus on each side at level of neck of first rib. Displace trachea, oesophagus, large vessels and nerves forward, separating them from the front of the spine. Complete the separation to the base of the skull, but be careful not to injure adjacent structures. Make a transverse cut through the thick periosteum on the pars basilaris of the occipital bone, the knife passing between the pharynx in front and the prevertebral muscles behind. Rest the inside of the base of the skull {basis cranii interna) upon a wooden block, apply a chisel in the line of the cut through the periosteum of the basis cranii externa (between pharynx and prevertebral mus- cles), and with a wooden mallet cut through the pars basilaris of occipital bone. Turn the head first on one side and then on the other, in each instance making a saw-cut through the side of the cranium from a point one centimetre behind the processus mastoideus, obliquely forward and medialward, to a point just behind the jugular foramen. Next place the dissection in such a position