INTRODUCTION 30 To prevent smudging of soft pencil work, the drawings may be “ fixed” by spraying them lightly with a fixative, such as bleached shellac dissolved in absolute alcohol or the regular solution that may be obtained, together with a spray-pipe, from dealers in artists^ supplies. BOOKS. In addition to this Laboratory Manual, the student of gross human anatomy is advised to provide himself with certain neces- sary text-books, concerning which he should consult his in- structor. In the University of Chicago the following are recom- mended : (1) A good atlas of the human body, preferably W. Spalteholz’s “ Hand Atlas of Human Anatomy’’ (Barker’s translation), or C. Toldt’s “ Anatomischer Atlas.” (2) A good systematic text-book of human anatomy, preferably (at time of writing) the “ Systematic Text-Book of Human Anatomy” edited by D. J. Cunningham or Quain’s “ Elements of Anatomy” edited by Schafer and Thane. (3) A text-book of embryology, preferably (at present) McMurrich’s “Human Embryology” or C. S. Minot’s “Embryology” or (if the student can read German) J. Kollmann’s “ Lehrbuch der Entwickelungsgeschichte des Menschen.” (4) A text-book on neurology, preferably Barker’s “ The Nervous Sys- tem and its Constituent Neurones,” or Van Gehuchten’s text-book if a French, or Obersteiner’s or Edinger’s if a German, author be desired. LIBRARY. Students beginning to study medicine often have difficulty in learning how to use libraries and how to find the bibliography of a subject in which they are interested. Each student should at the earliest opportunity request an instructor or a librarian to teach him how to use the ‘‘ Index-Catalogue of the Surgeon- General’s Libraiy” and the Index Medicus,” the keys to medi- cal literature. For convenience, a list of some of the more important reference-books and journals to be consulted in con- nection with anatomical studies is here inserted. The student will find these books and journals in the college library. If any of them are lacking, he should use his influence to have them added to the library collection as soon as possible. The list is by no means exhaustive, but includes some of the books and journals likely to be frequently consulted; it does not consider the literature of microscopic anatomy and histology.