141 DISSECTION OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY Poiipart’s ligament. Following this portion of the fascia, fascia pectinea (O. T. pubic portion of fascia lata), lateral ward, it will be seen to pass beneath the femoral vessels so as to line the fossa iliopectinea, becoming continuous lateralward with the fascia iliopectinea. The inferior cornu of the falciform margin is now visible. It belongs to that part of the fascia lata which lies lateral from the fossa ovalis,—viz., the superficial layer of the fascia lata (0. T. iliac portion of fascia lata),—and is inserted medialward into the fascia pectinea or deep layer. Observe the cribriform fascia {fascia cribrosa) closing the aperture of the fossa ovalis. The superficial subinguinal lymph-glands must be removed to display it properly. What vessels pass through this fascia cribrosa? Remove the fascia cribrosa carefully, so that the edge of the margo falciformis and its cornu superius may be clearly defined. The upper horn {cornu superius) (0. T. femoral ligament or Hey’s ligament or ligament of Allan Burns) consists of two layers, an anterior and a posterior. The anterior layer of the cornu superius is a broad lamina, strength- ened by Scarpa’s fascia; it bounds the fossa ovalis above and lies ver- tically between it and Ponpart’s ligament, to which it is attached. The posterior, thicker layer of the cornu superius extends further upward than the anterior, passes superficial to the femoral vessels medialward and upward, assumes a horizontal position, filling up the acute angle between the medial end of Poupart’s ligament and the pecten ossis pubis, and really forming (by fusion with the process of Poupart’s ligament to the pecten) the anterior or inferior part of the ligamentum lacunare [Gim- bernati]. The femoral canal will be studied farther on. Beneath the fascia cribrosa within the fossa ovalis observe the deep sub- inguinal lymph-glands {lymphoglandiilae subingiiinales pro- fundae). Skin and Superficial Fascia of Anterior Surface of Thigh and Knee. Continue the vertical incision on the medial aspect of the thigh distalward as far as the medial condyle of the tibia. Make another incision from the medial condyle of the tibia lateralward across the front of the leg as far as the lateral condyle of the tibia. Reflect the large flap lateralward, taking no fat with tlie skin and avoiding injury to nerves and l)!ood-vessels and to the subcutaneous praepatellar bursa. In the fat of the superficial fascia dissect out carefully the following structures: