45 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY Make four additional outline sketches and insert the ‘‘ re- gions” of the upper extremity and thoracic wall, having first- marked them out accurately with the end of the probe on the body. Use Figs. 1 and 2 as a guide. Ask yourself the reason for the name of each region. EEGIONS OF THE BACK {REGIONES DORSI). Surface Anatomy. In. the median region of the back {regio mediana dorsi) pal- pate the spinous processes {processus spinosi) of the vertebrae. Are they all in one plane I Find the spine of the seventh cervical vertebra {vertebra prominens). Are any other spines especially noticeable! Enumerate the spines consecutively. Is there any marked kyphosis, lordosis, or scoliosis present!^ Palpate the scapula and ascertain its general outline. Move the arm in various directions and note accompanying changes in position of scapula. With the arm of the cadaver by the side, establish the spinal level and the rib-level of the angulus medialis and of the angulus inferior of the scapula. Eun the finger along the spina scapulae and the acromion and note that both are subcu- taneous. Establish exactly the bony point corresponding to the junction of the lower border of the spina scapulae with the lat- eral margin of the acromion. (Surgeons measure the arm from this point, the tape being carried down to the epicondylus later- alis of the humerus.) Superficial Structures. Make skin incisions (1) along the linea mediana posterior from the vertebra prominens to the tip of the coccyx, (2) from the tip of the coccyx to the posterior superior iliac spine, then along the crista iliaca to near the anterior superior iliac spine, (3) from the vertebra prominens to the medial edge of the acromion, and (4) from the processus spinosus vertebrae lumbal is I. to the lateral margin of the acromion. Eeflect the two triangular flaps of skin, taking none of the fat of the superficial fascia with it. Have your atlases open before you. Having ascertained the region in which the medial set of cuta- neous vessels and nerves is likely to be found, with the knife make a small cut through the superficial fascia down to the deep AVhen a word is met with in this manual (or in any text-book) which is new to the student, he should look up its meaning at once in a good medical dictionary.