LABORATORY MANUAL OF HUMAN ANATOMY 518 {gc) Saphenous nerve {N. saphenus). Its branches ai'e studied in the dissection of the lower extremity. What is the lumbosacral trunk {truncus lumhosacralis) (0. T. lumbosacral cord), and what nerves unite to form itt What rami anteriores of spinal nerves unite to form the lumbar plexus 1 ^ FASCIA AND MUSCLES. Cut through the aorta and vena cava inferior at the level of the bifurcation of the aorta. Separate the pelvis from the rest of the trunk at the level of the disk between the third and fourth lumbar vertebrae. Iliac Fascia (Fascia iliaca). (Vide Spalteholz, Fig. 370.) Note the relation of this fascia to the M. iliopsoas, the lumbar vertebrae, the crista iliaca, and medially to the pelvic fascia {fascia pelvis). Show that these two fasciae are continuous. Determine the line of attachment of the fascia to Poupart’s liga- ment {ligamentum inguinale ^Pouparti']) and trace it down- ward to the eminentia iliopectinea. What are the fascia iliopec- tmea, lacuna musculorum and lacuna vasorumf (Vide Fig. 58.) What is the relation of this fascia to the femoral vessels? Locate at this stage of your dissection the annulus femoralis, and, if possible, its septum {septum femorale [Cloqueti]). From what fascia is this septum derived ? Dissect out the lymph-nodes of Rosenmuller. Determine their exact position and communi- cations. Dissect out the fascia covering the M. quadratus lum- borum, noting its exact attachments and general disposition. Muscles at the Back of the Abdomen. Clean the following muscles, noting the exact form, position, origin, insertion, action, and innervation of each. Avoid the sympathetic cord found medial from the iliopsoas muscle, also the nerves of the lumbar plexus, which may be readily seen, and take care not to destroy the iliac fascia as it passes into the fascia pelvis. (a) Quadrate muscle of the loins {M. quadratus lumborum). (h) Iliopsoas muscle {M. iliopsoas). (ha) Greater psoas (M. psoas major). (hb) Lesser jisoas {M. psoas minor). (be) Iliac (M. iliacus). ^ For a statistical study of the variations which occur in this region, see the paper by Bardeen and Elting, Anatomischer Anzeiger, 1901, vol. xix. p. 124.