LABOKATOKV MANUAL OU HUMAN ANATOMY 12()0 Cut the auricle oft close to the skull; macerate the cartilages and scrape clean. Study the following: (a) Istlimiis of cartilage of ear {isthmus carlilaginis auris). {b) Teriiiiiial notch of ear {incisura teryninaJis auris). (c) Antitrag'olielicine fissure {fissura antitrayohelicina). (d) Transverse antlielicine groove {sulcus anthelicis transversus). {e) Groove of sulcus of crus {sulcus cruris helicis). TEMPORAL REGION AND RETROMANDIBULAR FOSSA. Clean away the superficial fascia and expose the deep fascia above the zygomatic process. Preserve the arteries, veins, and nerves on its surface, and watch especially for blood-vessels and nerves perforating the fascia. Temporal Fascia. The temporal fascia {fascia temporalis) should now be studied. What are its attachments? Demonstrate the two lav- ers below. What structures perforate the fascia? Trace the peripheral distribution of the following: {a) Zygomaticotemporal ramus of facial nerve {ramus zygomaticotem- poralis N. facialis) (0. T. temporal branch of temporomalar). {b) Temporal rami of facial nerve {rami temporales N. facialis). (c) Zygomaticofacial ramus of zygomatic nerve {ramus zygomaticofa- cialis N. zygomatici). Follow the middle temporal arteiy (A. temporalis media) from its origin from the A. temporalis superficialis to the point where it pierces the fascia. Masseter Muscle. The masseter muscle {M. masseter) may now be dissected out. Divide the N. facialis below the ear and throw it forward. If the other structures superficial to the M. masseter impede the dissection, they may also be reflected. Study the form, position, origin, and insertion of the muscle. Cut through the fascia tem- poralis just above the processus zygomaticus and reflect it upward, saving the vessels and nerves which pass through it. Cut through the bony arch of the zygoma in front of and behind the origin of the M. masseter. The anterior saw-cut must be obliquely made. Throw the bony arch with the M. masseter