197 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD AND NECK from fat, between it and the pericranium. The presence of this layer (1) permits of freedom of movement of scalp, (2) accounts for extensive effusion of blood which may follow scalp injury, and (o) explains wide distribution of pus or other inflammatory products in infections involving the tissue beneath the M. epi- cranius (hence the term dangerous area of the scalp”)- Lymphatics of the Scalp. (Cf. Toldt, Fig. 1085; also Poirier et Charpy, t. ii., fasc. iv., p. 1282, Fig. 630.) Try to find the— (a) Occipital lympli-glands {lymphoglandulae occipitales). These are of sigiiiticaiice in the diagnosis of syphilis, pediculosis, and other con- ditions. {b) Posterior auricular lymph-glands {lymphoglandulae auriculares pos- teriores). (c) Anterior auricular lymph-glands {lymphoglandulae auriculares an- terior es). OPENING THE CAVITY OF THE SKULL. Nowadaj^s the brain is usually removed immediately after the cadaver is turned over to the department of anatomy, in order that it may be better prepared in formalin for subsequent study. Occasionally, however, a cadaver with the brain still in situ arrives in the dissecting-room, and in any case the student should know how to remove a brain. Raise the head of the cadaver by means of a wooden block. Make a coronal or frontal section, with a cartilage-knife, from the region behind the left ear, transversely over the vertex, to the same region behind the right ear. The cut should go through the galea aponeurotica down to the pericranium. Turn the front flap downward over the face and the hind flap downward over the neck. The temporal fascia and temporal muscle should be separated from the bone and reflected downward. Now make a horizontal cut with the saw along the largest horizontal cir- cumference of the skull; the saw passes through the glabella in front and a little above the protuberant!a occipitalis externa behind. Saw through the outer table of the skull only. With hammer and chisel split the inner table along the line of the cut. Insert a hook into the cut in front and forcibly wrench off the skullcap. The outer surface of the dura mater is now exposed.