DISSECTION OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY 87 the long’ head of the M. biceps braehii above and of the long head of the M. triceps below. (e) Long head of biceps muscle {caput longum M. bicipitis braehii). Note its relations to the joint. Why is it of especial importance'? Note its exact mode of origin. While in the joint, surrounded by the synovial membrane, it lies beneath a sort of inverted gutter formed by the superior glenohumeral ligament and by the posterior border of the coracohumeral ligament. [In the horse the tendon is inserted into the external surface of the capsula articularis; in sheep it becomes invaginated in the joint-capsule, is immediately related to the synovial membrane, being swung by a meso of the latter; in higher animals and man it is free in the joint. All these phylogenetic stages are repeated in the ontogeny of the human embryo. (Cf. Welcker, H., Die Einwanderung der Bicepssehne in das Sclmltergelenk, Arch. f. Anat. u. Physiol., Anat. Abth., Leipzig, 1871, p. 20.)] if) Synovial membrane and its evaginations. iYote exact extent of synovial membrane. Observe the following constant evaginations: {fa) Subscapular bursa, in the adult usually communicating with the M. subscapularis (already studied). {fb) Vagina mucosa intertubercularis (for tendon of long head of biceps muscle). {g) Movements of the joint. What muscles are concerned in the following movements'? 1. Flexion. 2. Extension. 3. Abduction. 4. Adduction. 5. Circumduction. 6. Rotation. What structures check excessive movements in the directions mentioned ? What agencies contribute to keeping the joint surfaces in con- tact,—i.e., to maintaining the integrity of the joint? For the details of the anatomy of this and other joints, consult R. Fick, Handbuch der Anatomie und Mechanik der Gelenke (in Bardeleben’s Handbuch), Jena, 1904. FOREAEM AND HAND {ANTIBRACHIUM ET MANUS). Superficial Fascia of Dorsum of Hand. Make incisions through the skin along the margo ulnaris and the margo radialis of the hand. Dissect oft the skin of the hack of the hand (dorsum manus), detaching the flap at the roots of the fingers. Make an incision along the middle line of the dorsum of each digit and reflect the skin radialward and ulnar- ward in each instance. Take no fat with the skin.