LABORATORY MANUAL OF HUMAN ANATOMY 472 this recess. It frequently lodges the appendix, a condition which is said to favor the development of appendicitis. (h) lliaco-subfascial fossa {fossa iliaco-suhfascialis [Biesiadecki'\). This is a depression or pouch lined by peritoneum in the mid- dle of the iliac fossa. (c) Paracolic recess (recessus paracolici). {d) Intersigmoid recess {recessus intersigmoideus). Raise the sigmoid colon and its peritoneal fold upward and a small opening will be found, corresponding to the apex of the V-shaped attachment of its root to the posterior abdominal wall. This fossa is due to the imperfect fusion of the mesentery of the descending colon of the foetus with the parietal peritoneum. (See Cunningham, p. 1036; Poirier et Charpy, t. iv.. Fig. 191.) {e) Phrenicohepatic recesses {recessus phrenicohepatici). Omental Bursa, or Lesser Peritoneal Cavity (Bursa omentalis). (Fig. 246.) Pass the finger beneath the right free border of the omentum minus, through the opening there into the omental bursa. Examine— (a) Vestibule of bursa {vestihulum bursae omentalis). {b) Extension upward behind liver, superior omental recess {recessus superior omentalis), downward behind the stomach, inferior omen- tal recess {recessus inferior omentalis), to the left as far as the spleen, splenic recess {recessus lienalis). (c) Gastropancreatic fold {plica gastropancreatica). What is the method of formation of this pouch in the embryo? (Vide Cunningham, p. 1073; Poirier et Charpy, t. iv.. Figs. 517- 520.) Epiploic Foramen (Foramen epiploicum [Winslowi]) (O. T. Fora- men of Winslow). (Fig. 246.) How is it formed? Examine its boundaries : Anteriorly, the Lig. hepatoduodenale. Peel it. Special attention should he paid to this ligament, because of the important vessels and ducts con- tained in it. Superiorly, the liver. Wliat part of the liver forms this boundary? Posteriorly, the posterior abdominal wall and inferior vena cava. Inferiorly, a fold of peritoneum, cover- ing the hepatic artery as it passes upward to reach the ligamen- tum hepatoduodenale. The dissection of this ligament* will be made later. Peritoneal Ligaments. Locate accurately the following peritoneal folds: (1) Phrenicocolic ligament {Lig. phrenicocoUcum) (0. T. costocolic liga- ment). From what is it developed? (Vide Cunningham, p. 1033.)