217 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD AND NE('K triangle of the neck boundedf Locate (a) sii})erior belly of onio- byoid muscle {venter superior M. omohyoidei), {b) digastric muscle (J/. digastricus), and (c) stylohyoid muscle {M. stylo- hyoideus). Clean their surfaces, but avoid injury to (1) tlie branches of the ramus descendens N. bypoglossi entering the upper border of the venter superior M. omobyoidei, (2) the anterior and posterior facial veins {Vv. faciales anterior et pos- terior) where tliey unite to form the common facial vein {V. facialis communis) on the posterior belly of the M. digastricus, and (3) the mylohyoid nerve {N. mylohyoideus) entering the upper border of the venter anterior of the M. digastricus. When these muscles have been thoroughly cleaned, it will be noticed that they divide the anterior triangle of the neck into three sub- sidiary triangles from above downward: (a) Submaxillary or digastric triangle. (t>) Carotid triangle (sometimes called “superior carotid” triangle). (c) Muscular triangle (sometimes called “inferior carotid” triangle). Review the boundaries of these three triangles. Note espe- cially that the muscular triangle is covered by both the super- ficial and deep layers of the fascia colli, the digastric and carotid triangles by the superficial layer only. The anterior triangle should be dissected as a whole, rather than the subsidiary triangles one by one; the structures passing through more than one triangle are then studied in their con- tinuity. The areolar tissue binding arteries, veins, nerves, and muscles together is to be removed bit by bit. Atlases should be open before the student constantly; as soon as a structure is exposed, it should be identified by reference to the plates in the atlases and the name repeatedly associated with it as it is further handled. From time to time, a description of all structures exposed should be read in the systematic text-book. It is very helpful to write down in full each new term met with in order to learn it more quickly and surely. It will be found that the majority of the structures can be exposed without cutting through any muscle or larger vessel or nerve. Submaxillary or Digastric Triangle. (Vide Fig. 113, p. 266.) It is arbitrarily subdivided into an anterior and a posterior portion by the stylomandibular ligament {ligamentum styloman- dihulare) (0. T. stylomaxillary ligament) (cf. Spalteholz, vol. i., Fig. 206) and a line drawn downward from it. In the anterior portion find—