DISSECTION ON THE HEAD AND NECK 213 Some Enclosed Spaces of the Neck. (a) Siibciitaiieoiis space—between fascia siiperllcialis and snperlicial layer of fascia colli. (h) Superficial subaponeurotic space—between snperlicial and deep layers of fascia colli. (c) Suprasternal space. (d) Previsceral space—between the deep layer of the fascia colli in front and the visceral and vascnlar sheaths behind. It contains fat and deep lymphatic glands. {e) Retrovisceral or prevertebral space—bounded in front by visceral sheath, behind by spine, and laterally by attachments of visceral sheath to spine. Surgical Anatomical Points. («) Abscesses within the visceral sheath either are secondary to infections involving the organs contained within it or are dne to primary pyo- genic infection of the areolar tissue inside it. {b) Abscesses secondary to disease of the retropharyngeal lymph-glands lie in front of the fascia praevertebralis in the space between it and the visceral sheath. (c) Abscesses secondary to disease of the cervical vertebrae lie behind the fascia praevertebralis and spread lateralward behind the vas- cular sheath; they nsnally point behind the M. sternocleidomas- toideus, and may be opened by an incision at the posterior border of this muscle. (d) The carotid chain of lymph-glands {lymphoglandulae cervicales pro- fundae) lies inside the common part of the vascnlar sheath. Ab- scess resulting from disease of these glands nsnally points upon the surface, owing to the formation of adhesions: first between the gland and the vascular sheath, then between the latter and the superficial layer of the fascia colli, and finally between the latter and the skin. Sternocleidomastoid Muscle (M. sternocleidomastoideus). (Vide Fig. 91, p. 219.) Note that it divides the neck into an anterior and a posterior triangle. Remove from its surface the covering derived from the superficial layer of the fascia colli. Ascertain exactly its origin, insertion, innervation, and action. Why does Krause designate it the quadrigeminal muscle of the head”? Which of the four parts (sternomastoid, sterno-occipital, cleidomastoid, and cleido-occipital) are present in your cadaver? Posterior Triangle of the Neck. (Vide Fig. 91, p. 219.) Remove, over the posterior triangle, the superficial and deep layers of the fascia colli; note that the former covers the whole triangle, the latter only its inferior part as far as the upper