DISSECTION OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY 135 Note especially the relation of the vein to the artery in the upper and lower parts of the fossa. Incise the vein longitudinally and search for valves. Are any present? Lymphatics. (Vide Fig. 50.) {a) Popliteal lymph-nodes {lymphoylandulae pojjliteae). How many do yon find? [h) Deep lymphatic vessels {vasa lymphatica profunda). Study in the floor of the fossa— (a) Popliteal surface {planum popliteum) of the femur. (b) Posterior ligament {ligamentum popliteum obliquum) of the knee- joint. (c) Strong fascia covering popliteal muscle. From what muscle is this fascia derived? A careful drawing of the boundaries and contents of this fossa should now be made. Each structure should be shown in its proper relation and carefully labelled. To complete the study make use of cross-sections. Make a drawing of a section through the middle of the space, labelling each structure found and giving correct relations. POSTERIOR SURFACE OF THIGH {FACIES FEMORIS POSTERIOR). Make a vertical incision through the belt of skin remaining in the middle of the thigh. Reflect the flaps thus formed lateral- ward and medialward respectively. Superficial Fascia and Cutaneous Nerves. Note carefully branches of arteries and radicles of veins. Preserve these as carefully as possible and trace back the larger vessels. Study the cutaneous nerves in the superficial fascia. Consult Pig. 47, p. 124. (a) Branches of the posterior cutaneous nerve of the thigh {N. cutaneus femoris posterior) (0. T. small sciatic). (b) On the lateral surface of the thigh, passing backward, branches of the lateral cutaneous nerve of the thigh (N. cutaneus femoris lat- eralis) (0. T. external cutaneous). (c) On the inner aspect of the thigh, near the knee, the cutaneous branch of the obturator nerve {ramus cutaneus nervi obturatoris); also twigs from the rami cutanei anteriores nervi femoralis. Deep Fascia (Fascia lata). (“ Broad Fascia.”) Clean away carefully and completely the superficial fascia and expose the deep layer of fascia. Note especially its thick-