170 LABORATORY MANUAL OF HUMAN ANATOMY 'the turning of the tendo calcaneus [Achiilis] downward. Deter- mine its insertion. It is the honiologne of the pahnaiis longus in the foreann. In monkeys, whose feet are prehensile, it is the proper tensor muscle of the plantar fascia. It is well developed in all plantigrade animals. Deep Transverse Fascia of Leg and Structures beneath it. Note its attacliment medially to the tibia and laterally to the fibula. Trace the fascia downward to the ankle, where it becomes thickened to form the ligamentum lacimatum (0. T. internal an- nular ligament). (Vide Spalteholz, Fig. 395.) Incise this fascia longitudinally, leaving the Lig. laciniatum intact, and proceed to the study of the structures beneath it. Muscles. Note carefully the form, position, origin, insertion, action, and innervation of each. (Vide Spalteholz, Fig. 395.) (а) Popliteus muscle {M. popliteus). Determine the relation of its tendon to the capsule of the knee-joint and the ligamentum pop- liteum areuatum. Note the dense aponeurosis covering this muscle. It receives a strengthening band from the tendon of the semimembranosus muscle. Examine the bursa of the popliteus muscle {bursa M. poplitei). (Vide Spalteholz, Fig. 396.) Does this bursa communicate with the knee-joint? (б) Long flexor of the digits {M. flexor digitorum longus). (Vide Spalteholz, Fig. 395.) Examine the sheath of the long flexor tendons of the toes {vagina tendinum M. flexoris digitorum pedis longi). This sheath surrounds the tendon as it passes behind the malleolus medialis and is continued well down into the foot. Does it communicate with a sheath which surrounds the tendons of the tibialis posterior and the flexor longus hallucis? (c) Posterior tibial muscle {M. tibialis posterior) (0. T. tibialis pos- ticus). This muscle may be more or less fused with the long flexors, which is only an exaggeration of the normal disposition in man and a reproduction of the normal disposition in the cat. (Strauss-Diirckheim.) Examine the sheath of the tendon of the M. tibialis posterior {vagina tendinis M. tibialis posterioris). {d) Long flexor of the great toe {M. flexor hallucis longus). Examine the sheath of the tendon of the long flexor of the great toe {vagina tendinis M. flexoris hallucis longi). At this stage in the dissection examine the bony leg and foot. Determine the exact position of the snlci through which these tendons pass. Note the exact relation of the tendons beneath the ligamentum laciniatum. (See Fig. 71.) Varieties in the fiexor system of the foot are frequent. The tendency to differentiate may be accentuated, but more fre- quently there is a return to the primitive undivided mass arising