27 BROILED FOWLS AND PIGEONS—FRYING. TO BROIL FOWLS AND PIGEONS. 1 fowl or pigeon. | Salt. 1 oz. butter. I Pepper. Clean and prepare the fowl or pigeon as for roasting; then split it down the back, laying it quite flat. Dust with pepper. Fowls and pigeons should he broiled more slowly than steaks or chops, being thicker, and requiring to he more thoroughly cooked. Rub occasionally with a little butter, to prevent the skin from cracking. In no case should the skin be taken oil' before broiling. On dishing, sprinkle with salt. FRYING. There are two distinct methods of frying—wet-frying and dry-frying. The former, which may be described as boiling in fat, should he employed for anything which can he cooked in three or four minutes, such as rissoles, filleted fish, fritters, &c., but, if a longer time is required, as for cutlets, &c., dry- frying must be resorted to. For wet-frying, place an iron saucepan three parts filled with clarified dripping (see page 69) over the fire, and allow it to melt and heat till a blue steam rises from it, and it is quite still, when it will be ready for use. Or, to test the fat, throw in a small piece of bread, and if a bubbling at once begins it is ready. Whatever is to be cooked, must be previously prepared by being tossed in flour, or covered in flour and water batter, or else first dipped in beaten egg, and then tossed in bread crumbs. When the fat is ready, drop into it a few of the prepared pieces (which should not be too large), when the outer coat will be at once sealed so that no grease can pass through; fry for three or four minutes to a nice golden colour. Lift the pieces with a perforated iron spoon on to porous paper; sprinkle with salt if they are savoury, or sifted sugar if they are sweet, and dry for a few minutes in the oven. Keep hot until the rest of the dish is cooked. If the fat is not sufficiently heated the outer covering will not become sealed, but will bo saturated with grease, and the appearance and flavour of the dish will bo entirely spoiled. After the fat has been used it should be allowed to cool for