151 TO CLEAN PLATE-^TO WASH GLASS OR CRYSTAL. must be active, but quiet, and never flurried or in a bustle. She must be observant, and, as far as possible, anticipate the wants of all at table. TO CLEAN PLATE. All silver when it is brought from table should be carefully washed in a wooden bowl of hot water with a little soap. It should then be rinsed in clean water, dried with a cloth, and polished with a chamois leather. Once every week the whole of the plate which is in use should be thoroughly cleaned. To do this, spread over each article a thick coating of Spanish whiting moistened with a little water or spirit. Let the articles stand for about ten minutes until the whiting is dry, and then plunge them into a sink or tub of boiling or nearly boiling water. In this allow them to remain until the water is sufficiently cool to admit of the hand being put into it; then lift out the silver articles one by one, washing them while so doing, dry them with a cloth, and polish with a chamois leather and, if necessary, a plate-brush. Fish and dessert knives and forks must not be treated in this way unless they are made in one piece; if they are put into water they are apt to start at the handles. To clean them, first wash the blades and prongs carefully in hot water and soap; then rub the knives and forks all over with Spanish whiting moistened with a little spirit or water; brush them with a little dry whiting, and polish with chamois leather or soft plate-brush. Silver should be kept in a baize-lined cupboard or drawer, all articles of one kind being laid together. TO WASH GLASS OR CRYSTAL. Wash the glass or crystal in warm water with a small piece of soda or a little soap powder dissolved in it, rinse thor- oughly in fresh cold water, dry with a glass cloth, and polish with a piece of tissue paper. To clean the inside of water-bottles, decanters, &c., put into them small pieces of brown paper, or of raw potato chopped small, add a little water, and allow them to stand for a short