11 CUTTING UP 51 EAT—KILLING FOWLS. No. 1, extending across and marked as a circle, is the shoulder; 2, is the scrag end of the neck; 3, breast; 4, loin; 5, leg; 6, best end of neck. The slanting line betwixt 4 and 5 is the division of the fore and hind quarter. Hie dotted line across the shoulder, shows where the neck is separated from the breast after the shoulder is off. Two loins united, form a saddle of mutton. Fig. 4 represents a side of mutton marked for cutting on the Scotch plan. No. 1 is the gigot, 2 the loin, and both together form the hind-quarter; 3 is the back-ribs, and 4 the breast, both forming the fore-quarter. Lamb is cut up in the same manner, when not sold in quarters. Yeal is usually cut up both in England and Scotland in a manner somewhat uniting the plans for cutting beef and mutton. A fillet, which is supposed to be the most elegant joint, is cut from the upper part of the hind-leg, being partly of the buttock and partly of the flank. The piece at the extremity of the loin is called the chump. KILLING FOWLS, &c. Fowls, rabbits, and some other animals, being sometimes purchased alive, and the beauty of their appearance when they are dressed depending in some measure on their being killed in a proper manner, it is necessary that a cook should learn how to kill them expeditiously and neatly. A turkey is killed by passing a small penknife into the mouth, and cutting it below the tongue, then passing the knife up through the head into the brain. After this, hang it up by the feet to let it bleed freely. All smaller fowls are killed by pulling and dislocating the neck at the head. In killing geese and ducks, commence by tying a string round the beak; then lix the wings by turning the pinions on the back to prevent fluttering. After this, make an incision or cut across the upper part of the neck, close to the head, and suspend by the feet, to bleed freely. A rabbit is killed by holding it by the hind-legs, letting the head hang downwards, and then giving it a smart blow with the edge of the hand behind the ears. All birds should be kept for a short time with their feathers on after being killed, and not drawn till they are to be used. Furred