150 WAITING AT TABLE. is ready, or else the tablemaid should open the drawing-room, door and announce ‘ Dinner waits.’ She must then retire, and wait by the dining-room door until the party has entered, when she should come into the room, close the door, and take her place beside her master or mistress ready to remove the dish-cover. In handing the plates, the tablemaid should begin with the principal lady, who is generally seated on the host’s right hand. She should then begin with the lady on the host’s left, and go straight round, serving ladies and gentlemen as they sit, the host being helped last. Every- thing should be handed from the left of the person to be helped, and when any one has finished, the plate must be at once removed, the knife and fork being put into the knife- basket, and the plate into the plate-basket or pail. At a family dinner, all the courses are as a rule placed on the table except entrees and cheese, which are handed by the servant after a plate has been placed before each person. Where the dinner is more elaborate, the carving is done at a side-table by a servant. After the last course, the glasses, salt-cellars, and every- thing upon the table except the decoration must be quickly and quietly removed on trays. Then any pieces of bread which may be left should be taken away with a fork, and the crumbs lifted with a brush or crumb-scoop on to a salver. Then place a clessert-plate before each person, and by their right side two or three wine-glasses according to the wine that is to be offered. Opposite the mistress place the water- jug and glasses, and then proceed to hand the dessert, first cutting up the fruit if necessary into conveniently sized pieces. Lastly, hand the wine, asking what each person will take, and, after it has been handed, put the stoppers into the decanters, and place them before the master of the house. If the tablemaid has had assistance, the assistant should in the meantime have removed the plate-basket, knife-box, butler’s tray, &c.; if not, the tablemaid must remove them, after which she should leave the room, closing the door after her. While waiting, a good servant will avoid making any unnecessary noise, she will never speak except when her duties oblige her to do so, and she will take no notice of anything that is said unless it is addressed to herself. She