SHEEP’S HEAD—SHEEP’S-HEAD PlE. 50 salt. Cook very slowly for about two hours. Cut the fowl in pieces, and place it in the tureen; pour over them the soup, which should be quite thick with leeks. SHEEP’S HEAD. 1 sheep’s head and trotters. Pepper and salt. 2 carrots. 1 turnip. 1 pint parsley sauce. After the head has been singed, soak it for some time in warm water, and then scrape it until it is perfectly clean. Then split the head and remove the brains. Take out the eyes, and scrape and clean the nostrils; after which wash the head again, and let it lie in warm water and salt for a short time. It is usual to procure the trotters with the head, and to subject them to similar treatment. The head and trotters being clean, put them, Avith sufficient water to cover them, into a saucepan, and let them boil till the skin is soft and tender, which may be in about three hours. Boil the brains in salt, vinegar, and water for ten minutes; drain and chop them. Place the two halves of the head flat upon a dish, cover with parsley sauce—garnish with the brains on the head—and the trotters, carrot, and turnip round it. Sheep’s head is seldom thus prepared without broth being afterwards made of the liquor in which it was boiled. Let the liquor get quite cold ; then remove all fat from it, and put it into a saucepan with one small cupful of pearl barley, well washed; let it boil for half an hour; then add two carrots and two turnips cut into small dice, three onions sliced, and a little parsley; boil slowly for two hours, and season with salt only. Serve hot. SHEEP’S-HEAD PIE. 1 sheep’s head and trotters. A little powdered mace. A little powdered ginger. h lb. rough puff pastry. J lb. bacon. 3 eggs. Pepper and salt. After the head and trotters have been properly cleaned, simmer slowly for five or six hours. Whilst warm, remove the bones, and cut the head and feet neatly into small pieces. Have ready some bacon and hard-boiled eggs sliced. Place a layer of sheep’s head in the bottom of a pie-dish. Sprinkle