AN ECONOMICAL PASTE FOR COVERING MEAT TIES. 93 boiling water and lard into it, and mix the whole well together with a spoon. After this, turn the paste upon the board, and knead it till it is smooth and there are no cracks. Cut a piece off to form the cover, and put it in a warm place, while you mould and knead the remainder quickly with the hands into the form of an oval or round box-like mould, hollow in the centre and about half an inch thick in all parts. Bear in mind that the paste must not be allowed to get cold, or it will become hard. Have ready prepared the meat cut into small pieces, and dip each piece first into water and then into a mixture of sage, pepper, and salt to taste. Put this into the paste shape. Roll out the piece that was put aside for the top; and, after wetting the edges of the sides, place on the cover. Press it firmly round the edges to make it unite, and pare it neatly, and ornament the rim with pastry pincers or the thumb and finger. Make a hole in the centre of the top, and brush over the whole pie with a beaten egg. Roll out the trimmings thinly, cut leaves for decoration and stick them on the pie in any form you may desire. Place the pie on a floured tin, and put it into a moderately hot oven for about two hours. Raised pies need soaking heat, therefore should have rather a slow oven, as great heat 'would scorch the glaze and so spoil the appearance of the pie. When it is cooked, pour about half a gill of stock made from bones through a funnel into the pie, and set it aside to become cold before serving. AN ECONOMICAL PASTE FOR COVERING MEAT PIES. 6 oz. dripping. 1 teaspoonfiil baking- powder. 1 lb. flour. Cold water. Salt. Rub the dripping well amongst the flour, salt, and baking- powder, with the tips of the fingers and thumbs, so as to incorporate them thoroughly, and add as much cold water as will make a thick paste. Knead it quickly on a slightly- floured board, and roll it out flat with a rolling-pin, to about half an inch in thickness. Wet the edges of the dish, and place some strips cut from the ends of the paste neatly round on the edges, as a foundation for the cover. Then, after