113 BLANC-MANGE. water, and wipe the top of the stock with it. Put into a saucepan the stock with the sugar, the yellow rind and the juice of the lemons, carefully keeping back the white pith and the pips. Then wash the eggs, and add to the stock, &c., the whites and shells. Place the saucepan over the fire, and whisk briskly till a froth is formed on the top. Remove the whisk, and let the jelly boil. Move the pan carefully and steadily to the side of the fire, and allow it to stand quite still with the lid on for twenty minutes. Reverse a kitchen chair on a table near the fire, and out of any draught, cover the four legs with a clean linen cloth of a loose make, and tie it securely round each leg. When the jelly has stood for twenty minutes, pour boiling water through the cloth two or three times; take the water away; put a heated basin under the cloth, and pour the jelly quickly into the cloth; remove the first basin, put another underneath, and return the jelly in the first basin to the cloth. Repeat this till the jelly passes through clear, which it will generally do the second or third time. When the jelly has all passed through, add the sherry or brandy. Have a mould standing filled with cold water; pour away the water and pour in the jelly; let it stand in a cool place till it sets, which will be in about ten hours unless it is put on ice, when a much shorter time will suffice. To turn out the jelly, dip the mould into tepid water, reverse it on a crystal dish, shake it, and remove the mould. In hot weather, the stock must be boiled for an hour longer, or half an ounce of gelatin may be added when the jelly is made. Put the milk, or cream, with the isinglass, lemon-rind, and sugar, into a saucepan. Stir over the fire until the isinglass is dissolved. Take the skins off the almonds and pound them to a paste with a little orange-flower water. Mix this with the milk, and strain through a sieve. Let it settle, and then pour it into the mould, previously dipped into cold BLANCMANGE. 1 pint milk or cream. 1 oz. isinglass. 12 sweet almonds. 2 oz. loaf-sugar. 3 bitter almonds. 1 lemon (rind only). H