MOCK-TURTLE SOUP. 50 care not to lose any of the blood, which must be put aside for future use. Cut the body into pieces, and put them in a saucepan with the water. If the bare he poor, two pounds of beef may he added. Let it boil, and skim ; then add the vegetables and seasonings, and let all boil for an hour and a half. Take out the meat from the back and upper joints of the hind-legs, and lay them aside. Let the soup boil for two hours longer. Then cut the remainder of the meat from the bones, and pound it in a mortar. Return the soup to the saucepan; stir until boiling, and then pass as much as possible of the meat with the soup through a hair-sieve. Put the soup into the saucepan with the pieces of hare which were laid aside, cut into dice, and also the arrowroot mixed with the ketchup. Boil this for five minutes, stirring continually. Let cool a little, and then add the blood, and stir always one way until the colour changes, and the soup is thick, but not boiling. Season to taste, and serve with the pieces of hare in the tureen. MOCK TURTLE SOUP. 1 calf’s head. 2 lb. hough beef. 2 lb. knuckle of veal. Peppercorns. Celery, cloves, mace, i lb. butter. 1 lemon. Cayenne pepper. 4 onions, 2 carrots, 1 turnip. Thyme, basil, parsley. 2 oz. flour. 4 table-spoonfuls ketchup. Salt. 4 wine glasses of sherry. EGG-BALLS. 4 hard-boiled eggs. I Salt. Cayenne pepper. I 2 raw whites of eggs. Fat for frying. It is best to get the head scraped and clean from the butcher, but with the skin on. Split the head, clean the nostrils thoroughly, and take out the brains. Put them in a basin of salt and water. Put the head into a saucepan with considerably more water than will cover it. Skim frequently, and let it boil gently for two hours. Take out the head, and cut the meat off into pieces of about an inch square. Scrape and cut the tongue in the same manner. Lay all these aside. Return the bones to the saucepan with the beef and veal cut into pieces, and the bones broken. Add the vegetables and seasonings, and boil for four hours. Boil the brains in vinegar, salt, and water for ten minutes.