148 TO SET A DINNER-TABLE. TO SET A DINNER-TABLE. A neatly-laicl, well-appointed dinner-table adds so materially to the comfort of a household, that we propose to give here a few directions for the guidance of the tablemaid in preparing for and serving this meal. The tablemaid should pay special attention to this part of her duties, and should begin to set the table about an hour before dinner. Every dining-table should bo provided with a closely-fitting baize cover, which should be spread over it and fastened securely at the corners by means of tapes or strings. After this has been put on, spread the damask cloth (which should always if possible be kept in a linen press when not in use) evenly and smoothly upon the table. Then place upon it the flowers or other decoration, aiming at uniformity in the arrangement. Next proceed to place the silver and knives, giving to each person, as far as possible, everything which he Avill require during dinner, and arranging them in the order in which they will be used—i.e. the spoon for soup must be on the outside, next the fish knife and fork, and so on. In setting a table, care must be taken that all articles are quite straight, and that each place on one side is directly opposite the corresponding place on the other. The soup- ladle must be placed in front, and the carvers by the side of those who are to help the respective dishes. Next, place the glass upon the table; for a family party a tumbler and two wine-glasses are generally put for each person, the tumbler being nearest the knives and forks, with the sherry- glass almost behind it, and the claret-glass at the side forming a triangle. When the dinner is more elaborate, water-bottles and glasses are generally placed at the corners of the table, and three wine-glasses (for sherry, champagne, and hock) are placed by the guests. If more glasses are required, as for Chablis or Sauterne, they are served with the course for which they are to be used, and removed with the plates. Then place the salt-cellars, one at each corner, and, if possible, down the sides also, so that there is one for every two