108 FRUIT PUDDING—ItOLEV-POLKV. place it over the basin, and tie it with a piece of string about half-way down the basin; lift the cloth to ascertain that it is firm, and tie the opposite comers over the bowl to form a handle. Plunge the pudding into a saucepan of boiling Avater Avith a little salt in it, and let it boil for three hours. Take care that the pudding is kept covered with boiling Avater. A good plan is to have a kettle full in readiness to replenish the Avater as it evaporates. When the pudding is ready, lift it from the saucepan and let it stand for two or three minutes. Remove the cloth carefully in case it should stick to the pudding. Reverse the IjoavI on a hot dish, and lift the basin sloAvly off, and serve hot. This pudding may be varied in the seasonings used; for example, an onion parboiled and finely minced, mushrooms, parsley, or a little ketchup may be added, or a few oysters may be substituted for the kidney. FRUIT PUDDING. Rhubarb, gooseberry, apple, or any boiled fruit pudding may be made according to the directions in the preceding receipt, using prepared fruit, with sugar to taste, in place of meat and seasonings. ROLEY-POLEY. Suet crust. I Jam. This favourite pudding is made with suet crust prepared as above directed, and rolled out to an oblong shape, rather thinly. Wet the paste round the edges, and spread evenly upon it some jam, steAved fruit, or minced and seasoned cold meat, to Avithin half an inch of the edges; roll it up, pressing the edges Avell together, and roll it firmly into a pudding-cloth Avliich has been dipped into boiling Avater and floured. Tie each end with string, and cook in boiling Avater, Avith a little salt in it, for two hours or more according to the size of the pudding. Lift the lid from the saucepan, and move the pudding occasionally to prevent its sticking to the bottom ; or else place an old plate or saucer in the pan. Be sure that the pudding is kept covered Avith boiling water the Avhole time it is cooking.