7 MARKETING AND CHOICE OF MEAT. MARKETING AND CHOICE OF MEAT. A young and thriftily-disposed housewife "will, if possible, proceed to market herself, in order to lay in butcher-meat and other fresh provisions for her family. By this plan she will obtain two advantages—that of selecting the best pieces, and of getting them at the lowest price. If circumstances permit, it is advisable to purchase a whole week’s provisions at one time—at least the chief things which will be required during the ensuing eight days. We should recommend a house- wife to act upon a system in varying the kinds of meat which she buys, not only as they may be suitable to the seasons, but as calculated to promote the health of her family. It is of considerable consequence that food should be varied; sameness of diet will produce the most injurious effects, whatever be the quality of the food which is taken. Let the housewife, therefore, exercise a little ingenuity and judgment in her marketing expeditions, that she may present at table a succession of different descriptions of animal and vegetable food; as, for example, sometimes meat roasted, and sometimes boiled or stewed; sometimes fresh meat, and sometimes salted; sometimes butcher-meat, and sometimes fish; and so on, according to taste and other circumstances. It does not necessarily follow that, in thus varying the bill of fare, greater expense is incurred than if the same kind of articles were continually purchased. The best meat is moderately fat. If it be lean, or almost free from fat, it is an indication that the animal has been ill fed, and the meat will prove tough and tasteless. Avoid lean beef—it forms wretched fare, and will be dear at any price. The fat of good beef is slightly yelloAvish; the fat of good mutton is pure white. The flesh of both beef and mutton should be of a clear red colour. The mutton of blackfaccd sheep, or South-downs, is the most tender and sweet, and may be known by the shortness of the shank. Mutton is in per- fection at between four and five years, but is seldom to be had older than three years. Cow and bull beef are considerably inferior to ox beef. In choosing lamb, select that which has a delicate appear-