lamb’s HAGGIS—BROTH. 57 of boiling water, letting the windpipe bang over tbo side of the pan that all impurities may escape; allow it to boil for an hour and a luilf; then lift it from the pan, and let it get cold. Cut away the windpipe -and any fat or gristle that may be attached to it. Grate a quarter of the liver (the rest of the liver will not be required for the haggis), and mince the heart, lights, and suet; parboil the onions and chop them; dry or toast the oatmeal before the fire; mix all thoroughly well together, and add black pepper and salt, and half a pint of the liquor in which the pluck was boiled. Fill the bags rather more than half full (if they be too full they will burst in boiling), and sew them up with a needle and thread. Put them into a pan of boiling water, and boil for three hours, pricking the bags occasionally with a large needle to allow the air to escape, and prevent them bursting. Serve in a folded napkin on a hot dish, without garnish or gravy, as they are sufficiently rich in themselves. The materials used vary a little; for instance, a little minced tripe is sometimes added, but the above is the usual method of making haggis. LAMB’S HAGGIS. 1 lamb’s fry. 1 lamb’s pluck. 1 large bag. \ lb. suet. 1 teacupful oatmeal. Pepper and salt. This is a much more delicate dish than sheep’s haggis, but is less frequently made. The fry is composed of the sweet- breads, kernels, &c. Prepare the bag, as in a sheep’s haggis. Cleanse thoroughly every other part; parboil and chop all finely with the suet. Mix with dried oatmeal, salt, and pepper, and sew the mixture in the bag. Boil and attend to it in the same manner as a sheep’s haggis. Serve hot. BROTH, OR ‘KAIL.’ 3 lb. neck of mutton or runner of beef. £ cupful pearl barley. Salt. 2 quarts water. 3 leeks. 2 carrots. 1 small turnip. £ cabbage. Broth is made from beef or mutton. In winter salted mutton, steeped for a short time in cold water before using, is often substituted for fresh meat; and where meat cannot