68 FISH—BOILED FISH. remainder of the oil drop by drop, and lastly the white vinegar. Let the sauce stand for half an hour before using. Serve over cold fowl, salmon, or salad, or separately in a sauce-boat with hot salmon, trout, &c. The appearance of this sauce may be varied by the addition of a little finely- chopped parsley or Tarragon stirred in just before serving. FISH. Fish is dressed in a variety of ways, according to the kind and freshness of the fish, or to suit the taste of individuals. It may be boiled, broiled, baked, stewed, or fried, but the most common methods of cooking it are boiling and frying. Great care must be given to the preparation and cooking of fish. When properly prepared and well cooked, it is a pleasant and nutritious article of food; but if badly prepared and underdone, it not only has a most unpleasing appearance, but is more liable than any other kind of food to cause indi- gestion and other bad effects. White-fleshed fish is considered to be the most delicate, and the red-fleshed and oily kinds the most nourishing. To cleanse Fish.—Fresh-water fish should be cleaned as soon as they are caught, salt-water fish just before they are to be used. Make a slight incision in the side, and take out the inside; carefully remove the thin black membrane lining the cavity, as it is apt to impart a bitter flavour to the whole fish if it is left. Scrape from the tail towards the head to remove the scales; take out the eyes; wash the fish in plenty of water with a little salt in it, and dry it carefully. Handle the fish as little as possible, and do not allow it to lie in the water, or the flavour will be washed away before it is time to cook it. TO BOIL FISH. If a whole fish is to be cooked, prepare it as above directed; have ready a fish-kettle containing sufficient cold water to cover the fish, with salt in the proportion of about two ounces to each half-gallon of water; place the fish on a drainer, and put it into the fisli-kettle; bring it to the boil, add