21 ftOASTED FOWLS. pipe, and insert the first finger, keeping it close to the inside surface of the body; work it round, breaking all the liga- ments with which it conies in contact, thus loosening the contents of the carcase. Great care should be taken not to thrust the finger into the centre, for if the gall-bag should be broken, the liver, to which it is attached, will be unfit for use, and a bitter taste will be imparted to any part of the flesh which the gall may touch. Turn the bird, slightly enlarge the opening at the other end, insert the finger, and loosen the inside from the carcase at that end. Turn the bird again, and place it on its back ; press on the breast with the thumbs, and push out the gizzard by the hole at the other end. Take hold of it, and pull steadily, when the whole of the interior should be brought away entire. Look to see that this has been done, and then wipe the inside of the bird with a damp cloth. After having drawn the bird, proceed to truss it. Press down the breast-bone; break the legs in the middle of the first joint, and cut them off by the break. Carefully wash the liver, and dry it; open the gizzard, and take out the inside; place them in either wing. Then fold the loose piece of skin from the neck on to the back, and turn the pinion ends of the wings round under the back, which Avill keep the skin in its place. Then push the legs back close to the sides of the fowl; pass a long needle threaded with twine through the point of the wing and the upper part of the leg, then through the body, catching the leg and wing in the same way at the other side; tie the twine under the back; finally, tic the legs firmly together at the knees close to the tail. Fowls for roasting are not generally stuffed, but where this is done, bread crumbs mixed with butter, pepper, and salt, or else veal stuffing (page 18) should be used; insert the stuffing in the hollow place in front of the breast from which the crop, &c. was taken; then draw the loose skin over it, and secure it as above directed with pinion ends of the wings. A fowl will take from half an hour to an hour to roast, according to the size. Baste well with dripping until the last quarter of an hour, when butter should be used instead of dripping. Serve roast fowls with bread sauce and gravy in separate