60 lamb's head and PLUCK. over it a mixture of pepper, salt, mace, and ginger ; then put a layer of bacon and eggs. Repeat till the disli is Idled. Add a cupful of the liquor in which the head was cooked. Cover with paste (page 93); bake an hour and a half. Oysters may be substituted for the eggs; this is the true Scotch method. TO DRESS A LAMB’S HEAD AND PLUCK. 1 lamb’s head. 1 table-spoonful parsley chopped. 2 oz. flour. 1 onion chopped. Bread crumbs. 2 oz. butter. 3 eggs. A little milk. 1 table-spoonful ketchup. Fat for frying. Lamb’s heads are procured skinned. Take the head with the neck attached; split the forehead, take out the brains, and put them aside in salt and water. Wash the head carefully, rubbing the nostrils well with salt, take out the eyes; put it on to boil with the heart, half the liver, and the lights, leaving the lid of the pan partly open, that the gases may escape; let all simmer for an hour and a quarter, and then take them out; dry the head and neck with a cloth; brush it over with a beaten egg, strew crumbs of bread seasoned with pepper and salt over it, put small pieces of butter on the top, and lay it in a dish before a clear fire, to brown lightly. Mince the lights, heart, and liver, and mix them with the onion, parsley, pepper, salt, ketchup, and a little flour ; add some of the liquor in which the head was cooked to make a gravy. Let these simmer by the side of the fire for half an hour. Wash the brains; boil them for ten minutes in hot salt, vinegar, and water. Drain the water from them, and beat them with two eggs, two table-spoonfuls of bread crumbs, a little flour and finely-chopped parsley, pepper, salt, and milk, if necessary, to form a thick batter. Have ready a pan of hot fat or dripping, and fry the batter in small round cakes to a nice brown. Cut the remainder of the liver in slices, dust it with flour, and fry it. Place the head upon a dish with the hash round it, and lay a slice of liver and a brain-cake alternately on the hash all round. Care must be taken to have all the parts of this dish hot and ready to serve at the proper time.