SUET CRUST—BEEFSTEAK AND KIDNEY PUDDING. 107 put it into a pan of boiling water, and boil for half an hour. When it is ready to serve, turn it out of the cloth into a vegetable dish. SUET CRUST. 1 lb. flour. I i lb. suet. I teaspoonful salt. I About 11- gill water. This crust is generally used for boiled puddings. Remove all skin and fibre from the suet, and chop it very finely (sometimes a little flour sprinkled over the suet will aid in speedy chopping). Mix this thoroughly with the flour and salt in a basin, and add enough water to form a stiff paste; work them together with the hand, and turn the paste out of the basin neatly in one lump on to a floured board; roll out once with a floured rolling-pin to the thickness required. This crust may be made with half a pound of flour and half a pound of fine bread crumbs, instead of using all flour, and it is then considered by some people to be much lighter and more digestible. BEEFSTEAK AND KIDNEY PUDDING. Suet crust. 1 table-spoonful flour. 1 teaspoonful salt. 1 gill stock or water. i teaspoonful pepper. 1 lb. good stewing steak, ox kidney. Grease a pudding-bowl with dripping. Roll out the suet crust to half an inch in thickness, line the bowl rvith this, cut off the edges with a sharp knife, and roll out the trimmings to the size of the top for a cover. Flatten the steak, and cut it into strips about three inches long and one broad ; divide the fat into small pieces. Remove all skin and fat from the kidney, and cut it into dice. Mix the flour, salt, and pepper on a plate or piece of paper, toss each piece of steak in this, lay upon it one piece of fat and one piece of kidney, and roll it up; put each roll as it is ready into the pudding, and when all are prepared pour over them the cold water or stock. Wet the edges of the lining, and cover with the paste already prepared. Press the edges very tightly together to prevent the gravy from escaping while the pudding is cooking. Dip a pudding-cloth into boiling water, flour the centre of it where it will be in contact with the pudding,