125 OAKES. for largo cakes a moderately hot oven. The temperature of the oven should not he increased after the cake is put in, but, if possible, kept at a uniform heat, and the oven door must not be opened more often than is absolutely necessary. A good method of testing tlie heat of the oven is to sprinkle a little flour on the hottest part. Should it become a golden brown in a minute or two, the oven may be considered in a fit condition, and the cake may be put in; should the flour turn black, the oven is too hot; should it only dry with- out colouring, the oven is too cold, and in this condition would spoil any cake, making it slack and doughy. After the cake is nicely browned, put it into a cooler part of the oven to ‘soak,’or get baked thoroughly to the centre. To ascertain when it is sufficiently cooked, thrust a thin -wooden skewer into the centre; if it is quite clean and dry when drawn out, the cake is ready, and should be turned out of the tin, placed upon a sieve until cold, and then stored in a covered tin or earthenware crock; on the other hand, should the skewer be in the least damp when it is removed, the cake should be returned to the cool part of the oven to finish cooking. Select a tin sufficiently large to allow of the cake rising, and grease it thoroughly with oil or suet. For a rich cake a greased paper should be placed between the cake and the tin. Good beef dripping will be found excellent for making ordinary cakes, and is far better than inferior butter. Always have all the ingredients in readiness before you begin to mix the cake. Let the currants be well washed and dried, with all the stalks and stones picked out. Have the flour quite dry and free from lumps; cut any candied peel in thin slices; grate the yellow rincl only of lemons. Wash salt butter in cold water, wring it in a cloth, and then beat it to a cream. In cold weather the butter may be [warmed, but should never be allowed to melt. Break each egg separately in a cup or small vessel; in many cases it is necessary to beat the yolks and whites separately. When raisins are used they must be cut in halves and the stones taken out; sultanas need only have the stalks removed. Cakes made from yeast will not keep good so long as those made with eggs and baking- powder. A small portion of baking-powder will be found a great improvement to nearly all cakes, except where sour