133 A PLAIN OMELET. cooked until just before it is required, and should then be served at once on a very hot dish. The mixing ot an omelet is indeed simple enough, but not so the cooking. Be most particular about the pan; do not use it for anything but omelets, and always keep it scrupulously clean. A bright and clear lire is also very necessary. Have the dish hot before commencing to cook the omelet. Do not break the eggs until you are ready to use them, and then beat them briskly with a fork for a few minutes, so that the yolks and whites are thoroughly broken and mixed together. The flavourings which may be given to omelets are varied and numerous, and whatever herb, vegetable, meat, or fish be added to the eggs, gives its name to the omelet. Do not use more or less than two eggs when first attempting to make an omelet, and never use more than six or seven; it is better to make two omelets with five eggs each, than one with ten eggs. Never add milk or liquid to the eggs, as it is liable to make the omelet tough, heavy, and flat. A PLAIN OMELET. 1 oz. butter. I 3 eggs. 3 teaspoonful salt. | \ teaspoonful pepper. Break the eggs into a basin, beat them briskly, and add pepper and salt to taste. Place a small omelet-pan over the fire, put in the butter and allow it to melt without becoming coloured; remove the scum quickly, and pour the beaten eggs into the hot butter. Hold the handle and keep the pan moving over the fire until the mixture looks thick; let the pan then rest over the fire for about a minute, swiftly slide a broad pliable knife or a slice under one half, and fold it over the other half to form an oval shape, trim the edges neatly, and hold the pan so that the lower side of the omelet may become of a golden-brown colour, and it will then be ready. Keverse the pan over a hot dish, and serve quickly with the brown side uppermost. The omelet should be brown and firm on the outside, but soft and creamy inside when broken. All omelets should be thick in the centre, consequently the size of the pan must be regulated by the number of eggs to be used.