94 ROUGH TUFF PASTE. putting in the meat, lay the cover on the dish, pressing down the edges closely to keep all tight. Make a hole in the top and trim the edges neatly. Mark round according to taste, lioll out the trimmings, out or stamp ornaments, such as leaves, and place these as a decoration on the cover. On taking a pie from the oven, and while quite hot, brush over the top of it with a beaten egg, and return again to the oven for a few minutes to dry the glaze thus formed. ROUGH PUFF PASTE. 1 lb. flour. | Some cold water. A pinch of salt. I i lb. butter. Juice from half a lemon. Carefully rub the flour with the hand to ascertain that there are no lumps; if it feels thick and heavy pass it through a sieve. Wash the butter in cold water, then press it free from moisture in a soft cloth, put it into the flour, and break the butter, when it is covered with flour, into pieces about the size of a shilling; mix the salt with these, and add the lemon-juice with enough water to mix to a smooth paste. Make the whole of it into one ball without leaving any pieces sticking to the sides of the basin. Turn this on to a slightly-floured board, and with a good heavy rolling-pin, also, slightly floured, roll the paste to the length of two feet, taking care not to let the roller fall over the edges, and lift up the paste from time to time to make sure it is not sticking to the board. Whenever any flour is sprinkled upon the board or paste, pass the hand lightly over it, so that there may be no patches of flour left on either. When the paste has been rolled to the desired length, fold it into three, as evenly as possible both at the sides and ends. Half turn it, so that the sides may become the ends, and roll again to the same length; fold again as before, and continue to roll and fold four times. If at this stage the butter should still be visible, the paste must be rolled again. The last time let the paste be rolled rather larger than the dish it is to cover, and not more than half an inch thick. This is a better kind of crust commonly used for meat pies.