BOILED BEETROOT— POTATOES. S7 of a split pea; put the lid on the pan and boil until soft, stirring occasionally. Then strain the water through a sieve, and pour cold water over the spinach. Squeeze the water from it, chop it, and put it into a stew-pan with a little vinegar and butter. Stir over the fire till hot, put the buttered toast on a Hat dish, place the spinach on this, and mark it in squares with a knife, cutting it quite through, that it may be easily helped at table. If for a supper dish, some poached eggs may be put upon it. TO BOIL BEETROOT. 1 beetroot. I Pepper. 1 gill vinegar. 1 Salt. Wash and brush the beetroot quite clean, being careful not to break off the top or any of the projecting fibres, as any opening made in the skin will allow the juice to escape, and thereby spoil the colour of the root. Boil for an hour or more, according to size. When done, skin and trim it, and serve in a vegetable dish. If cut in slices, when cold, and covered with vinegar, pepper, and salt, beetroot makes an excellent pickle, and will be ready for use in twelve hours. BOILED POTATOES. Potatoes Boiled in their Skins.—Wash and brush the potatoes well, taking care not to break the skins. When they are quite clean, pack them tightly into a saucepan, and cover them with cold water; add about half a teaspoonful of salt, put the lid on the pan, and place it on the fire; bring it slowly to the boil, and allow the potatoes to cook gently till they are soft. Ascertain that they are ready by running a skewer into them, and then pour off the water; return the saucepan to the side of the fire; put the lid on again, but not quite closely, and allow all the remaining moisture to pass off in steam; when the potatoes are quite dry, serve hot in a hot vegetable dish. Place a small plate by the side of each person for the skins. Potatoes Peeled and Boiled.—-Wash the potatoes well, and with a very sharp-pointed knife peel them as thinly as possible; take out the eyes, and as each potato is prepared