12 THE LARDER—KEEPING MEAT. nnimals should not be skinned till they are to be used, but should bo paunched as soon as they are cold. THE LARDER—KEEPING MEAT. A larder should be cool and dry, with the outer air playing freely through it, and be placed in the shade. It should also be impervious to vermin or insects, particidarly flies. Two or three shelves, a few strong iron hooka for hanging the meat, and some wire-covei-s for cold meat, are the only furniture required. lleef and mutton are always improved by hanging some time after being killed before they are cooked. The length of time which they may be kept, depends on the state of the weather. When the atmosphere is cool, clear, and dry, beef and mutton should hang from four to ten days—mutton, if well managed, may hang a fortnight, or even three weeks. A moist thick atmosphere is the worst for keeping moat; under these circumstances great care must be taken with the contents of the larder. The meat should be Aviped daily with a cloth, to'free it as much as possible from the moisture that gathers upon it when kept for many days. In all cases, fresh meat should hang from a hook, and not be laid on a plate. Should meat contract mustiness by keeping, it may sometimes be restored by washing in vinegar or camomile tea. When in danger of becoming tainted, it may be preserved by being partially boiled or roasted. Frozen meat should be thawed very gradually by being placed in the kitchen for some hours before it is cooked. In most instances, fresh meivt is cooked too soon after being killed, a circumstance perhaps arising from the general want of proper larders, and the dread of the meat being spoiled. The consequence is, that, instead of being tender and palatable, the meat is tough and disagreeable, and not so nutritious or so easily digesteil as it ought to be. While beef and mutton may', with great projiriety', be kept some days to become tender, veal, lamb, and pork (being young or white meat), cannot be kept more than a day, or two days at the utmost. tJamc may be kejit for two or three weeks, that which is feathered being kept with the feathers on, and hares being paunched. .'ill kinds of tish, except