HINT8 TO NURSES, AND INVALID COOKERY. 119 through. Put tho juice and sugar into the preserving pan and boil it ibr twenty minutes, skimming as required. The juice and rind of one lemon to every pint of juice may bo added with the sugar, when tho apples are not very good. HINTS TO NURSES, AND INVALID COOKERY. Tlie preparation and cooking of food sliould bo thoroughly understood by a good nurse, so that should any dish bo sent from tho kitchen imperfectly prepared, directions may bo given as to how this can bo remedied. Food should never bo prepared or cooked before a patient. Invalids’ food and tho manner of giving it is most important, and this latter depart- ment falls exclusively to the nurse. Endeavour to give tho food most appreciated by the sufferer (when not injurious), and present it in a kind and sympathetic manner; offer only a small portion at a time, and in a scrupulously clean vessel, so that it may appear tempting, and when the patient has partaken of as much as ho is able, let the dishes be at once removed from the room. Do not let the patient see you taste the food which is to be given to him, and never take your own meals before a patient. Keep all food out of tho sick room, but close at hand. Be especially careful not to use milk that has stood in the room, or by the side of an invalid, for milk quickly absorbs any impure germs that may be floating in the atmosphere. Assume a quiet and cheerful manner at all times before your patient. Many diseases are controlled more by diet than medicine, and frequently tho doctor in attendance, imagining that you know how to prepare all foods, gives his orders, and leaves the patient in your hand.s. Should a patient then bo injudiciously fed, neither nursing nor medicine can remedy the ill effects. The effects of food tell on the body and on the blood; therefore what is to be aimed at in sickness is to obtain tho largest amount of nourishment with the least trouble to the patient. This in acute cases can be most safely supplied and easily digested in a liquid form. Get exact and minute instructions from