53 PEAS SOUP. free them from the bits of feather; the feet must he scalded and skinned, and the liver and neck cut into two or three pieces. The beak, Avhich is not used, should be taken from the head, and the skull split. AVhen all the pieces are thoroughly cleaned, put them into the stock, and let them boil until they are tender. Then take them out, and cut the meat from the bones into small pieces. Strain the liquor; return it to the saucepan, and thicken with a little kneaded flour and butter. Season with pepper and salt, add the pieces of giblets, and boil for five minutes. Serve hot. PEAS SOUP. This is an excellent soup, if well made, and is one of the cheapest. It may be prepared from cold meat or marrow bone, or the liquor in which any piece of meat has been boiled; or it may be made only Avith Avater, Avithout meat, bones, or stock. PEAS SOUP AVITH MEAT 1 lb. split peas. 3 onions, 1 carrot, 1 turnip. 1 head of celery, 3 quarts water. OR BONES, 0d. worth of bones. 1 lb. ham. Parsley. 1 teaspoonfUl salt. Break the bones, and put them into a saucepan Avith the cold Avater. Wash the peas, and put them Avith the bones; add the salt, and let boil. Skim thoroughly before adding the vegetables, all cut into small pieces. Boil Avith the lid off the pan for half an hour, skimming as required. Then put the lid on the pan and let all boil for four hours, stirring frequently, as the soup is very apt to burn. When the peas are quite soft, put the soup, peas, and vegetables through a sieve. Return to the saucepan, and stir until the pulp is mixed with the soup. Add salt, a lump of sugar, and pepper, to taste, and boil again for a few minutes. Serve hot with toasted bread cut into small square pieces separately. PEAS SOUP WITHOUT MEAT OR BONES. 2 lb. split peas. 4 quarts water, i lb. dripping. Pepper. 4 onions, 2 carrots, 1 turnip. Salt. Put the peas aa'cII Avashed into a saucepan with the dripping, toss them over the fire for five minutes, add the Avater. Boil and skim thoroughly; cut the vegetables small