92 Raised pork pie. many persons seem to imagine that butter of any kind, however bad, is good enough for paste. Dripping, when clarified, or lard, will answer as a substitute for butter, and make good paste. When no baking-powder is used, paste may be made one day, wrapped in a cold wet cloth, put aside in a cool place, and cooked next day. This gives the starch of the flour time to swell and burst before cooking, and thus the paste is rendered lighter and more easy of digestion. Great care and attention must be given in cooking the paste. When baking-powder is used too much alacrity cannot be displayed in making and baking the paste, for as soon as the flour, &c., containing the baking-powder is wetted, effervescence begins, and unless the paste comes in contact with heat while this is going on, and the paste is rising, the air will escape and the paste fall, and no amount of heat or trouble will make it rise again. The amount of success will also greatly depend upon the heat of the oven. If it is too hot, the top will become scorched before the centre is warmed. If too cold, the paste will become heavy and sodden. It is best, therefore, to keep the pastry out until the oven is of the right temperature; experience is the best guide, but a good plan is to try the heat of the oven first with a small piece of paste; the heat should be strong enough to cause the cold air in the paste to expand and so make it rise, and then set in the form given by this expansion of the air. Another test is to throw a little dry flour on to the oven shelf, if it becomes nicely browned in a few seconds the heat is good, but if it becomes charred it is too hot. Do not open the oven door for some few minutes after putting in the paste, and when you do so shut it again as gently as possible, so as not to send in a current of cold air, which would chill the paste and cau.se it to fall. i gill stock. Put the water and lard in a saucepan over the fire, and let them boil. Iilix the flour and salt in a basin, pour the RAISED PORK PIE. 1 lb. flour. 1 grill water. 1 lb. fresh lean pork. Pepper. 4 oz. lard. 1 teaspoonfUl salt. 1 teaspoonful powdered sage.