69 FRIED FISH. about a table-spoonful of cold water, and skim; then draw the kettle to the side of the fire, and simmer slowly till the fish is cooked. If the fish has been cut, have ready over the fire a fish- kettle of water boiling rapidly, containing enough water to cover the fish and salt in the above proportion; place the fish on a drainer, and put it into the water; allow it to boil rapidly for three or four minutes; tlien skim, draw the fish-kettle to the side of the fire, and allow it to simmer very gently till the fish is cooked. The time required depends entirely on tlie fiesliness and thickness of the fish, and varies so much that to give any ride would be practically useless; experience is the only guide. We give, however, three reliable tests by which it can be ascertained whether it is sufficiently cooked; first, if the fins can be easily removed; second, if the skin of the fish is cracked; or, third, if a skewer passes easily when run into the fish close to the bone. Fish sliould always be put into the water in which it is to be cooked; if the water is poured upon it, it is apt to become broken. It should not be allowed to remain in the water after it is ready; if it has to be kept hot it should be taken up upon the drainer, placed across the fish-kettle over the hot water, and covered with a soft cloth or flannel folded several times. TO FRY FISH. White fish, such as whiting and haddocks, should be fried whole if they are small; they must first bo washed and skinned, and then the tail should be passed through the eye sockets. Soles and plaice, if larger than medium size, and also large whiting and haddocks, should be filleted, and the fillets cut into conveniently-sized pieces, the bones and trimmings being used for fish stock (see page 47). When the fish is so far pi-epared, washed, and dried, dust it well with hour to absorb any remaining moisture; then dip it into a well-beaten egg seasoned with pepper and salt, and toss it in a paper with plenty of bread crumbs, turning it if necessaiy Avith a fork or skewer, but not with the fingers and thmnb. As each piece is prepared, lay it upon a sieve or piece of paper, until it is time to cook it. Heat in a