125 OAKES. for large cake.s a moderately hot oven. The temperature of the oven should not be increased after the cake is put in, hut, if possible, kept at a uniform heat, and the oven door must not be opened more often than is absolutely necessary. A good method of testing the heat of the oven is to sprinkle a fittle flour on the hottest part. Should it become a golden brown in a minute or two, the oven may be considered in a fit condition, and the cake may bo put in; should the flour turn black, the oven is too hot; should it only dry with- out colouring, the oven is too cold, and in this condition would spoil any cake, making it slack and doughy. After the cake is nicely browned, put it into a cooler part of the oven to ‘ soak,’ or get baked thoroughly to the centre. To ascertain when it is sufficiently cooked, thrust a thin wooden skewer into the centre; if it is quite clean and dry when draw out, the cake is ready, and should bo turned out of the tin, placed upon a sieve until cold, and then stored in a covered tin or earthenware crock; on the other hand, should the skewer be in the least damp when it is removed, the cake should be returned to the cool part of the oven to finish cooking. Select a tin sufficiently large to allow of the cake rising, and grease it thoroughly with oil or suet. For a rich cake a greased paper should be placed between the cake and the tin. Good beef dripping will be found excellent for making ordinary cakes, and is far better than inferior butter. Always have all the ingredients in readiness before you begin to mix the cake. Let the currants l)c well Avashed and dried, with all the stalks and stones picked out. Have the flour quite dry and free from lumps; cut any candied peel in thin slices; grate the yellow rind only of lemons. Wash salt butter in cold Avater, Avring it in a cloth, and then beat it to a cream. In cold Aveather the butter may be ;warmed, but should never be alloAved to melt. Break each egg separately in a cup or small vessel; in many cases it is necessary to beat the yolks and Avhites separately. When raisins are used they must be cut in halves and the stones taken out; sultanas need only have the stalks removed. Cakes made from yeast Avill not keep good so long as those made with eggs and baking- poAvder. A small portion of baking-pOAvder Avill be found a great improvement to nearly all cakes, except Avhere sour