6 COOKERY. One of the chief points to be attended to in cookery is cleanliness—scrupulous cleanliness in every department of the business of the kitchen. The hands of the cook, in particular, should be always clean—that is, washed every time afbT doing any kind of work which has soiled them, or before proceeding to handle meat for dressing. She should also be careful to have her hair always neatly trimmed up, so that no loose hairs may drop into the dishes. The next point is to keep all tlie saucepans and lids and other utensils jierfectly clean inside and out; carefully washing with hot water, and scouring when necessary. If the cooking utensils are not kept thoroughly clean, they will be very apt to taint the food prepared in them, and wiU certainly detract from the agreeable taste of the dishes. It is the duty of every house- wife to see that these and all other rules affecting the clean- liness of the kitchen are attended to by servants, for she is understood to be responsible both for the wholcsomoness and the tidy appearance of the dishes presented at table. Another essential point in cookery is attention. Many persons think they have done all that is necessary, when they have fairly started any particular process in cooking. They seem to imagine that they may safely leave a roast to roast by itself, or leave a pot with soup or broth to boil by itself, and that they have only to go back to the fire at a certain time, when they will find the food ready for dishing. Now, this kind of inattention is certain to spoil the best meat ever put to a fire. Some processes require much less attention than others, but none can be properly perfonneil if left long to itself. A good cook is pretty freipient in her visits to the fire, to see how the operation of dressing is going on, and to seize the proper moment in giving her assistance. Perfection in the art of cookery is only attainable by lengthened experience, a careful study of the (lualities of meats, and the application of sauces and seasonings. It is chiefly in knowing how to make and apply saiux-s that a cook shows her skill. We therefore recommend this branch of the art to very careful attention. The directions which are given under the head Sauce.s will convey sufficient infonnation on the subject, and, along with a little practice and good taste, ■will enable the cook to impart the proper flavour to the dish she is preparing.