58 HOTCH-POTCH—COCKIE-LEEKIE. be obtained, it is not unusual to make the broth with butter or dripping kneaded with a little oatmeal. Put the meat and cold water into a saucepan with the pearl-barley, and let it boil. Skim thoroughly and add the salt. Allow it to boil gently for an hour, skimming occasion- ally. Then add one carrot grated, lialf a turnip cut in squares, the leeks shred, a few pieces of carrot and turnip, and the cabbage chopped, parboiled, and drained. When cabbage cannot bo procured, the same quantity of greens should bo used. Boil for an hour after the vegetables are put in. If necessary, a small quantity of hot water should be added to compensate for the loss in boiling. The broth is now ready. Season, and serve in a tureen. The meat should be served in a separate dish, garnished with the uncut pieces of turnip and carrot, and a little of the broth as gravy. HOTCH-POTCH. 3 lb. lamb. 2 pints grreen peas. 1 lettuce. 6 spring onions. 1 pint beans. 5 yoiing carrots. 3 young turnips. 1 small caxiliflower. Parsley. 2 quarts water. This dish can only be obtained in perfection when green peas are in season. Trim the joint from all superfluous fat, and put it into a clean saucepan Avith the boiling water, two or three carrots cut into squares, and two grated, the turnips cut in squares, the cauliflower and a lettuce cut small, the onions shred, the parsley chopped, and about a pint of peas shelled and a pint of beans shelled and skinned. Boil for an hour and a half, then take out the meat, and after cutting it in chops, lay it aside. Add another pint of young peas, season with pepper and salt; when these peas are cooked, put in the chops. Heat for a few minutes, and serve the Avholo in a tureen. COCKIE-LEEKIE. 1 fowl. I 18 leeks. 2 quarts stock or water. I Pepper and salt. Prepare the leeks by removing the root and green parts, cut them in slices, and cover with boiling tvaixjr for five minutes. Drain, and put the leeks with a largo fotvl trussed as if for boiling into a saucepan with the stock, pepper, and