98 SHORT CRUST—ICING FOR TARTS—APPLE TART. SHORT CRUST. 1 lb. flour. The yolk of 1 egg. Juice from half a lemon. 6 oz. butter. 2 oz. powdered sugar. Some cold water. This paste is generally preferred to any other for covering fruit tarts, and is considered to be the most easily digested; the butter and flour are so thoroughly mixed before any moisture is added, that when it is exposed to the heat of \ the oven, the starch cells of the flour burst, and are absorbed i by the melted butter. When the flour is perfectly dry and j free from lumps, put it into a basin with the butter, and rub 1 dexterously with the thumb and fingers until they resemble 1 bread crumbs; do not touch the butter unless covered with i the flour, or the heat of the hand will partially melt it and ; so spoil the pastry. Beat the sugar and egg together, pour i them into a hole in the centre of the flour, and then add i enough water to mix all to rather a soft paste; turn it on to a slightly floured board, handling the paste lightly, and as little as possible, and roll it out to the thickness required. ICING FOR TARTS. 1 white of an egg. | 1 oz. castor sugar. After tarts are baked, they are sometimes iced on the top, to improve their appearance. Whip the white of an egg until it is a stiff froth, then mix the sugar lightly with it. Spread some of this on the top of the tart, and then dredge white sifted sugar upon it. Keturn the tart to the oven for about ten minutes, to dry and become slightly browned. Sift sugar over it again before serving. APPLE TART. 2 lb. apples. | I lb. brown sugar. 4 cloves. I 1 table-spoonful water. Pare and take out the cores of the apples, and cut each apple into four or eight pieces, according to their size. Lay them in a pie-dish, season with the sugar and the cloves or any spice (such as cinnamon), or grated lemon-i)eoL A little quince marmalade gives a fine flavour to the pie. Add a little water, and cover with short crust; make a small hole with a skewer, just above the rim at either end. This allows