TO SET A DINNER-TABLE—WAITING AT TABLE. 149 persons. If there is only one waitress, the other castors must also he placed on the table by the side of the salt- cellars ; a large cruet-stand is now seldom used. Then fold the table-napkins in some pretty form, placing one at each place with a dinner-roll or piece of bread in it. Direc- tions for folding serviettes Avill be found on page 153. A table-napkin ring should be put beside each place where clean serviettes are not provided I'or each meal. Finally, put a chair in fixmt of each place. The bright appearance of a table depends very much on the way in which the glass and plate are kept. Directions for cleaning and keeping these are given on page 151. Have ready on a side-table dessert-plates, with a d’oyley, a dessert knife and fork, and a finger-glass with a small quantity of cold water in it, for each. All whie-glasscs which will be required for dessert, with an ornamental glass jug or water-bottle, and two glasses should also be in readiness upon this table. Next proceed to arrange the sideboard. Spread upon it a long, narrow cloth, and on this arrange prettily some spare knives, forks, and spoons, the sauce-ladles, spoons for vege- tables, the decanters, &c.-—in fact, everything that will be required during dinner; the tablemaid should never leave the room during dinner except to bring in the dishes. Have at hand also a small tray or salver on which to hand anything which may be asked for. A butler’s tray should also be in the room, on which should be placed the vegetables, ami the knife-box, into one division of which tlie knives should be put when they are removed from table, and into the other the silver. A plate-basket or pail is also a convenience; into it the plates should be put as they are taken from table. WAITING AT TABLE. It is the tablemaid’s duty to see that the plates for the hot courses are heated; they should be hot, but not so that they cannot be handled with comfort. The first course must be placed on the table before dinner is announced, the dish and plates being in front of the person who is to help it. A bell or gong is sometimes soimded to intimate that dinner