120 BEEF-TEA. the doctor as to the kind and quantity of food to bo adininis- terctl, or in mistaken kindness you may occasion much suifer- ing and increased illness. Ascertain whether food or sleep is more important; act strictly according to instructions, and give food, like medicine, at regular intervals, for much may depend upon the nourishment being given at the right time. BEEF-TEA. 1 lb. lean beef. | 1 pint cold water, i teaspoonful salt. Choose freshly-killed beef, for after it has been hung the meat becomes dry and will not yield so much juice. Eemove all skin and fat, and cut the beef into small pieces. If you have plenty of time at your disposal, a still better plan is to scrape or shred the beef; this breaks it more tlioroughly down and allows the water to mix better with it, but as it takes a long time it is not generally adopted. Have a stone jar with a tight-fitting lid; into it put the beef with the water and salt; cover it, and set it aside for ten minutes. This soaking in cold water and salt helps to draw out the juices. As soon as it has stood for a sufficient time, place the jar in a saucepan with water boiling around it, and allow it to cook thus for one hour. If the water in the pan boils away, add more. The rea.son the beef-tea is put into a jar and not into the pan itself is to prevent it boiling. Beef- tea .should be cooked at a temperature of about 170 degrees Fahrenheit. When the beef-tea has been cooking for half an hour, open the jar, and witli two forks separate the beef, Avhich is apt to cake into lumps, re-cover the jar, and return it to the saucepan. When the tea is sufficiently cooked, pour it off from the meat; do not strain it through a fine strainer, as that Avould keep back the sediment, Avhich is a valuable part of the tea. I’our the tea into a basin, pressing the meat Avith the back of a spoon so as to get out all the juice. If there is a suspicion of any fat floating on the top, remove it Avith porous paper, or better still, let the tea get cold, and remove the fat Avith a heated spoon. Serve hot, Avith thin dry toast cut into small dice upon a so]mrato plate, and only three parts fill the cup in case any should spill over.