CARVING AND HELPING AT TABLE. 144 event of a portion of a joint being left, it will have a neat appearance when cold; a mangled cold joint or piece of meat has an offensive appearance, and is unfit to be brought to table again. Endeavour to carve and help fish without breaking or dis- figuring the flakes. In carving salmon, give a piece of the thick and thin—the latter is the richest. In carving a turkey, cut slices lengthways from the breast, beginning from the outside, and helping with each slice a portion of stuffing. Exhaust the breast before proceeding to the legs or Avings. A goose is carved in a similar manner, but should be begun from the breastbone. In carving fowls, if they are large, first cut a slice from each side of the breast; then take off the wings and the legs; and next, the merry-thought. Pheasants and partridges are carved in the same manner. Pigeons are cut in two pieces, being divided from head to tail through the breastbone. In carving a sirloin or rib piece of beef, cut it in thin slices, drawing the knife from the spine-bone to the thin edge where the ribs project. Cause the knife to go down to the rib-bones beneath, and also close to the spine-bone, getting as large and even a slice as possible. The brown or outside cut should be laid aside, unless asked for. Boiled beef should be cut rather thinner than roast meat, and the dry outside piece always laid aside. When a fore-quarter of lamb or mutton is to be carved, begin by taking off the shoulder, which is done by slipping the knife below it, and cutting it from the ribs. Next divide the ribs from the brisket. You will now bo ready to serve from the shoulder, the ribs, or the breast. In carving a hind leg or gigot of lamb or mutton, cut into the thick or the most fleshy side, thus helping slices cut across the grain. Saddle of mutton is cut across the ribs, from the tail towaixls the long ribs. Pieces of fat from the edges of the flap should be served along with the slices. A ham is carved by beginning to cut across about three or four inches from the shank, cutting down to the central bone. Cut the slices very neatly and smoothly, and as thiu as the knife.