MARKETING AND CHOICE OF MEAT. 8 ance and is perfectly fresh. Young veal has a dark and ilabby look, and is tasteless when dressed. Veal is best wdien the animal is between four and six months old. The flesh is then white and delicate, and firm in the fibre. ]^rk should be white and delicate like veal, and thin in the skin. Lamb, veal, pork, and all other young or white meal, should be fresh, and not bought long before being used. Fowls, ducks, and other birds should be purchased young, and should all be firm and fleshy to the touch. The safest rule in choosing young feathered animals is to feel the breastbone, which should be soft and jiliable like gristle. The age of game is of little consequence, as it is hung for a considerable length of time before dressing. All kinds of fish, except cod and turbot, should be pur- chased as fresh as possible. Freshness in all fish is indicated by stiffness in all parts of the body, a clear glittering apiiear- ance in the scale.s, and by tlie smell. The fish will have an offensive odour if it be in the least stale. Freshness of appearance in the eyes and gills is not to bo trusted. It is very difficult to ascertain when eggs are perfectly fresh. There are different rules on the subject, but they are all liable to failure. One mode of judging is to hold the egg between the eye and the light of a candle, shading the eye with the hand; if the appearance is uniformly luminous, the egg is fresh; if not, it is probably unfit for use. Butter may be easily selected by the taste and the smell; but in l)uying both eggs and butter, it is better, and will Siive much trouble, to deal only witli a thoroughly reliable person. Good ham and hacon have a fresh savoury smell; the fat is white. If it be yellow, it will soon become rank and rusty. Flour for culinary purposes should be new and fresh. Old flour is liable to spoil and become full of animal life, in which condition it is unfit for use. The best kind of salt for the kitchen is that which is purchased in lumps, and cut down. This kind is less rank than the coaree scaly salt, and in England is not higher