CARROT SOUP—ARTICHOKE SOUP. 61 Pound them, and add them to the soup, and let it simmer slowly for another hour. Strain it, and when cool, take off the fat. ]\Ielt the butter in a stew-pan; add the flour, and let it brown, stirring all the time; add one pint of the soup; boil for a quarter of an hour; strain it through a sieve. Put this, with the pieces of meat and the soup, into the saucepan, and boil it for half an hour. Add the ketchup, the juice of a lemon, Cayenne pepper, and salt to taste. Just before serving add the sherry. Have ready in a hot tureen two dozen egg-balls. Egg-balls.—Take of the hard-boiled eggs the yolks, and beat them in a mortar, with salt, Cayenne, and the white of one or two raw eggs to form a paste. Roll this into balls the size of small marbles, flour them, and fry them a pale brown, being careful to keep them whole and separate. Drain on porous paper, and they are ready for the soup. CARROT SOUP. 0 large red carrots. 2 onions. 1 head of celery. Pepper and salt. 1 lump of sugrar. 2 quarts broth or stock. J lb. ham. 2 oz. butter. Put the butter with the carrots, celery, and onions, thoroughly cleaned and chopped, into a saucepan. Toss them over the fire until well mixed; add the ham cut into piece.s, and the stock, let all boil from three to four hours, or until the carrots are quite soft. Press the vegetables with the soup through a sieve, and return to the saucepan. Season, and let boil a few minutes, and if any scum appears, remove it. Serve very hot, with toasted bread cut in dice separately. ARTICHOKE SOUP. 2 lb. artichokes. 2 leeks. 2 pints water. 1 pint milk. 1 oz. butter. 2 yolks of egga. 1 grill cream. Pepper and salt. Wash and clean the artichokes and leeks, and boil them in water and milk, with the butter. When sufficiently soft, press through a sieve. Put the soup into a clean saucepan, season to taste. Beat the eggs and cream together. Pour the hot soup on to them, stirring all the time, return the soup to the saucepan, and pour at once into a hot soup