113 BI.ANC-MANQE. water, and wipe the top of the stock with it. Put into a saucepan the stock with the sugar, tlie yellow rind .and the juice of the lemons, carefully keej)ing back the white pith and the pips. Then wa.sh the eggs, and atld to the stock, &c., the whites and shells. Place the saucepan over the fire, and whisk briskly till a froth is formed on the top. Remove the whisk, and let the jelly boil. Move the pan carefully and steadily to the side of the fire, and .allow it to stand quite still with the lid on for twenty minutes. Reverse a kitchen chair on a table near the fire, and out of any draught, cover the four legs with a clean linen cloth of a loose make, and tie it securely round each leg. When the jelly has stood for twenty minutes, pour boiling water through the cloth two or three times; take the Avater away; put a heated basin under the cloth, and pour the jelly quickly into the cloth; remove the first basin, put another underneath, and return the jelly in the first basin to the cloth. Repeat this till the jelly passes through clear, which it will generally do the second or third time. When the jelly has all passed through, add the sherry or brandy. Have a moulil standing filled Avith cold Avater; pour aAvay the water and pour in the jelly; let it stand in a cool place till it sets, Avhich Avill be in about ten hours unless it is put on ice, Avhen a much shorter time Avill suffice. To turn out the jelly, dip the mould into tepid water, reverse it on a crystal dish, sh.ake it, and remove the moidd. In hot Avoather, the .stock must be boiled for an hour longer, or half an ounce of gelatin may be added Avhen the jelly is made. Put the milk, or cre.am, with the isinglass, lemon-rind, and sugar, into a saucepan. Stir over the fire until the isinglass is dissolved. Take the skins off the almonds and pound them to a p.astc Avith a little or.ange-floAver Avater. Mix this Avith the milk, and strain through a sieve. I^et it settle, and then pour it into the mould, previously dipped into cold BLANC-MANGE. 1 pint milk or bream. 1 oz. Isinglass. 12 sweet almonds. 2 oz. loaf-sugar. 3 bitter almonds. 1 lemon (rind only}.