21 ROASTED FOWLS. pipe, and insert the first finder, keeping it close to the inside surface of the body; w'ork it round, breaking all the liga- ments with which it conies in contact, thus loosening the contents of the carcass. Great care should be taken not to thrust the finger into the centre, for if the gall-bag should bo broken, the liver, to which it is attached, will be unfit for use, and a bitter taste Avill be imparted to any part of the flesh which the gall may touch. Turn the bird, slightly enlarge the opening at the other end, insert the finger, and loosen the inside from the carcass at that end. Turn the bird again, and place it on its back ; press on the breast with the thumbs, and push out the gizzard by the hole at the other end. Take hold of it, and pull steadily, when the Avhole of the interior should be brought away entire. Look to see that this has been done, and then Avipe the inside of the bird AA'ith a damp cloth. After having draAvn the bird, proceed to truss it. Press doAvn the breast-bone; break the legs in the middle of the first joint, and cut them off by the break. Carefully Avash the liver, and dry it; open the gizzard, and take out the inside; place them in either Aving. Then fold the loose piece of skin from the neck on to the back, and turn the pinion ends of the Avings round under the back, Avhich Avill keep the skin in its ]>lace. Then push the legs back close to the sides of the foAvl; jjass a long needle threaded Avith twine through the point of the Aving and the upper part of the leg, then through the body, catching the leg and Aving in the same Avay at the other side; tie the twine under the back; finally, tie the legs firmly together at the knees close to the tail. FoavIs for roasting are not generally stuffed, but Avhere this is done, bread crumbs mixed Avith butter, pepper, and salt, or else veal stuffing (page 18) should be used ; insert the stuffing in the hollow place in front of the breast from Avhich the crop, &c. Avas taken ; then draAV the loose skin over it, and secure it as above directed Avith pinion ends of the wing.s. A foAvl will take from half an hour to an hour to roast, according to the size. Paste Avell Avith dripping until the last quarter of an hour, Avhen butter should be used instead of dripping. Serve roast foAvls Avith bread sauce and gravy in separate