13 THE LARDER—KEEPING MEAT. cod and turbot, are best when cooked as soon after being caught as possible. A fowl will keep a week, and a turkey a fortnight. A goose will not keep above nine or ten days. Great care should bo taken in picking feathered animals which have been kept, for their skin will in such a case be easily tom. Keepinri cold Meat.—When newly-cooked meat is brought from table, and has to be set aside for after-use, put it on a clean dry dish, place it in the larder, and cover it with a wire cover; if any liquor or gravy be left about it, the meat is apt to become sour. Cold meat is always best Avhen it has not been cut while warm, as in that case the juices have not run out, but remain to enrich the meat. Vegetables.—Vegetables of all kinds should be used as soon after being gathered as possible. They begin to ferment, and to lose both their flavour and wholesomeness, very shortly after being taken from the ground. When they have necessarily to be kept for a day or two, place them in a perfectly dry, dark, and cool situation, but not exposed to currents of wind. Keep also each kind of vegetable separate from another, to prevent contamination of flavour. They should never bo washed or placed in water till immediately before being used. The vegetables in most common use are potatoes, cabbages or greens, turnips of a small size, carrots, and onions—which are to be procured nearly all the year round; also cauliflower, broccoli, green peas, leeks, rhubarb, French beans, parsnips, horse-radish, seakale, celery, lettuce or salads, spinach, aspara- gus, and parsley—which are to be had only in particular seasons. Turnips and carrots may be kept for several weeks after being pulled, by putting them in a box filled with dry sand. There is a class of vegetables called sweet herbs, which are used for seasoning certain dishes or preparations. The most common, and the best, are mint, thyme, knotted marjoram, winter savory, and sage. If these be purchased fresh and green, they may bo dried for future use, by being hung up in bunches in a dry situation.