100 MINCE-PIES—OPEN TARTS. with the salt. The easiest method of doing this is to put them upon a clean plate, and to beat them with a broad long knife quickly. Pour these on to the flour, and with the addition of a little water form a soft paste; turn it on to a floured board, and knead lightly until smooth. Wash the butter in cold water, wring it in a cloth, and then divide it into six parts. Eoll the paste about sixteen inches long, then put on one-sixth of the butter in small dabs, fold in three, half turn it, and roll again.; add another portion of the butter, fold, half turn, and roll again; and so on until all the butter is rolled in. At the seventh time of rolling, sprinkle over the paste a little lemon-juice, fold it again, and roll to whatever size and thickness you may require. This paste is generally used for mince-pies, patties, fish pies, &c. MINCE-PIES. 1 lb. beef suet. 1 lb. sultanas, li lb. apples. 4 lemons. 2 nutmegs. i teaspoonfUl cinnamon, li lb. brown sugar. 1 teaspoonful salt. 1 lb. raisins. 1 lb. currants. 1 lb. figs, i lb. almonds. 1 teaspoonful allspice, i teaspoonful ground ginger. 1 gill rum. 1 gill brandy. 1 lb. candied peel. Mince the suet, stone and chop the raisins, chop the sultanas, clean the currants, peel and chop the apples, chop the figs, cut the candied peel into small pieces, blanch and pound the almonds, grate the lemon-rind, squeeze the juice free from pips, and grate the nutmeg. Mix all the ingredients well together; then put the mince-meat into a jar, cover it, and keep it for at least one month before using. Cut a round of paste; wet it round the edges, place a spoonful of mince- meat in the centre, and cover with another round of paste. Make a hole in the top with a skewer, and bake in a hot oven to a pale-brown colour. Sift powdered sugar over the pies while hot OPEN TARTS. Tliese are tarts without covers, made in flat dishes. Cover the bottom of the dish with a common paste; then cut a strip of flaky paste and lay round the edge of the dish. Fill