54 LENTIL SOUP—TOMATO SOUP. and add them to the soup. Season to taste. Boil for two hours or more until the peas are quite soft and the soujx thick and pulpy. If the soup become too thick, add a little boiling water. The peas may be boiled the evening before being used, and the longer they bod the smoother and more mellow the soup will be; but do not put in the vegetables mitil the day the soup is to be usei By this plan the soup does not require straining, or passing through a sieve. LENTIL SOUP. 1 pint red lentils. 2 onions. 1 carrot. 1 turnip. 2 quarts water. 2 oz. butter or dripping. 1 teaspoonful salt. 1 teaspoonful pepper. This soup is very nourishing, and to be well made requires a great deal of attention. Wash the lentils through several waters untd clean j soak them in the cold water for a night Put the lentils, water, and salt hito a large saucepan, let them boil ■without a lid on the pan and skim thoroughly; unless this be well done the soup will have a rough and coarse taste. Cut the vegetables into small pieces, add them to the lentils, and boil for three hours, skimming frequently. Press through a colander, season to taste, and serve very hot with toasted bread cut into dice separately. TOMATO SOUP. 2 lb. fresh tomatoes or 1 can of tomatoes. 2 onions. 2 oz. ham. 1 lump of sugar. Juice from half a lemon. 1 red carrot. 1 head celery. 2 pints stock. Pepper and ssdt. 1 table-spoonfUl crushed tapioca. Tomatoes are valuable as a wholesome article of diet, and when they cannot be procured fre.sh, can be had preserved in tins. Put into a stew-pan the butter, ham, sliced onions, cjvrrot, celery, and tomatoes cut into pieces. Put the lid on the pan, and shake the contents over the fire for about five minutes. Add the stock, pepper, and salt, and let all simmer for an hour and a half. Pass all through a hair-sieve, keeping back the skin and seeds; return to the saucepan ''vith the tapioca. Stir till it boils; add sugar and lemon-juice, and boil for ten minutes. Serve hot.