ECTROPION AND BLEPHAROPLASTY. complished, the latter fibres only serve to maintain it. This condi- tion, when exaggerated, may be termed blepharo-paraphimosis. Mechanical ectropion is really a less acute form of the above, in w hich both lids may be involved, and, in cases of long standing, is characterized by structural changes in all the tissues of the lids, but more particularly the innermost. The active force is referable to exophthalmos, ectasia of the globe from staphyloma, tumors, etc., or to growths and chronic swellings, hypertrophy, etc., of the con- junctiva (mucous ectropion). The perverted action of the orbicu- laris, alluded to, figures here also. Atonic ectropion chiefly concerns the lower lid, and may be due to (a) paralysis or paresis of the orbicularis—paralytic ectropion—or (b) relaxation of all the tissues of the lid, with lengthening of the free border—senile entropion. As a complication of this form, hypertrophic conjunctivitis of the lower lid and epiphora occur, and can easily be mistaken for a purely mucous ectropion. Cicatricial Ectropion.—In this variety, the eversion is the in- direct result of a burn, other injury, or disease that destroys all or a part of the skin of the lids. The destruction that causes ectropion rarely extends deeper than the superficial fascia, or, at most, the orbic- ularis. When the deeper leaf, viz., the tarsus and conjunctiva, is carried away, that is another affair. The principal agents in bringing about the condition are the contraction of the scar and, after the eversion is pretty well established, the anchylosis in the external sulcus. The location and extent of the scar will determine those of the ectropion. As to the surgical means adopted for the correction of ectropion, they will depend mainly upon the nature of the defect. For the purely spastic kinds, it will ordinarily suffice to remove that which is most active in producing it. Treatment of the conjunctivitis, or whatever the cause, putting on strips of adhesive plaster to keep the palpebral fissure closed, and bandaging, if the condi- tions will admit of this. If, however, there is strangulation from the muscle-cramp, an immediate canthotomy (p. 217) with free cutting of the external canthal ligament is needed. For the mechan- ical form, as in the spastic, attention to the ulterior cause is often the sole means, be it the ablation of anterior staphyloma, the re- moval of a tumor of the globe, tarsus or conjunctiva, or the relief