CHEMICAL TREATMENT. 361 then that the trachoma bodies assume the appearance so often re- ferred to as that of "frog-spawn" and of "boiled sago." All authorities agree in advising against expression in acute trachoma, or during the first half of the chronic stage, or in a blennorrhagic period, be it in the beginning or during an exacerbation. The most violent outbreaks call for the mildest measures. This is one in- stance where a desperate case does not demand a desperate remedy. 2. CHEMICAL TREATMENT. (c) Cauterism.—In its broadest sense this termrefers to the use of both escharotic mineral substances or caustics and the actual or thermic cautery. Caustics will not be considered. The ancient Greeks and Romans and the physicians of the Middle Ages regularly resorted to cauterization for affections of the conjunctiva, and often in conjunction with scraping or scarifying. To judge from de- scriptions in their writings, of the implements with which it was done, and from relics of the same that have been preserved, they seem to have taken great pride in these outfits. The first in modern times to employ the cautery for trauchoma was Samel- sohn, in 1857. He selected the more advanced cases for its applica- tion, touching the separate follicles with a tiny tip of a galvano- cautery (punctate cauterization). Reich (1888) and Burchart (1889) were strong supporters of the galvano-cautery for trachoma, but rightly limited its use to the recent cases. Indeed, it is ad- missible at an earlier stage than any other surgical measure. For the extensive infiltrations, to be properly applied, it is very tedious, requiring many sittings. But for isolated granules and as an auxiliary to other forms of treatment, it is most excellent. To hasten matters, G. Lindsay-Johnson, of London, has resurrected the ancient combination of scarification and cauterism, first in- cising the conjunctiva horizontally with his triple knife and then tracing the cuts with electrolysis. Neither thermic nor galvanic cautery nor electrolysis have had many partisans of late. They mostly add to the scarring. ((/) Radiation.—Much is hoped for in the treatment of trachoma or, rather, much has already been accomplished and much more is hoped for from the comparatively new therapeutic agents—X-rays