535 CLEARING OUT LENS REMAINS. immunity from after-cataract, by tearing away all or a portion of the anterior capsule as a systematic measure, and withdrawing it from the eye. For this he had constructed a pair of specially designed forceps, with sharp back teeth, which he named, "forceps- cystotome." These he used with more or less regularity for a time, and could boast of having his example followed by such men as Schweigger, Knapp, and Fuchs but the procedure has mostly fallen into merited disuse, saving for a few chosen cases such as lenses with opaque capsules, for the removal of which the pro- cedure and the forceps still serve admirably. Its shortcomings are in many respects similar to those of combining the cystotomy with the corneal section, viz., uncertainty as to the extent and character of the opening and rupture of the zonule from the pressure that must be made in order to seize the capsular membrane. It is difficult of accomplishment through a small pupil. I prefer Knapp's peripheral capsulotomy to others because it gives the most rationally situated opening for the exit of the lens; it lends itself to the horizontal manipulation of the cystotome; being close up under the incision, the impulse of the lens as it rises in the direction of least resistance can be readily observed. Where an iridectomy has been made, the coloboma affords an open field for nearly the requisite length of the incision; yet, a small round pupil does not interfere with its proper making, since the extremities can easily be extended beneath the iris. It has not been proven—as has been asserted—that it leads oftener than any other method to the formation of after-cataract. Expelling the Lens.—For this, instead of using spoons, ex- ternally applied to the globe, some surgeons resort to pressure with the fingers, placed either directly upon the eyeball or acting through the medium of the lids. When we reflect how utterly impracticable it is to rid the fingers, the conjunctiva, the cilia, and the orifices along the lid margins of bacteria, the clumsiness of this measure is lost sight of, and we wonder only at its uncleanliness—surgically speaking. Clearing Out Lens Remains.—Irrigation of the anterior chamber for washing out the cortex has been variously tried, as to the instrument, the technic, and the quality of the liquid employed, and, for the most part, abandoned, it being ineffective for any but