EXTRACTION OF CATARACT. 5°° when it comes to the first dressing, the unbandaged eye will be found to have its lids firmly glued together by old, dried secretions. After-treatment.—While yet on the operating-table, it is well to give the patient a few parting instructions. He is told that he must keep very quiet in bed for a short time, that it will not be long before he will be allowed to sit up. That he must remember all the while that he is in the hands of his friends, that night and day there is someone within easy call, etc., all of which has the effect of reassuring him, particularly if he can be truthfully informed of the success of the operation. He is warned against stooping or straining, and told that he may turn about, quietly, to assume different positions of lying—on back, side of unoperated eye, and even a little to the side of the operated one, so long as he doesn't press the dressing upon the pillow. On the journey from the operating-room to the bed, I prefer to have the patient walk to having him lifted—often by untrained assistants—to and from a stretcher or cart. He is helped to a sitting posture on the table, with his feet hanging, then an attendant stands on either side, each with one hand beneath the patient's arm- pit and the other holding his wrist or hand, when he slides down until he is standing on the floor and is led to his room. There he is told to sit on the edge of the bed while shoes, stockings, and outer dress are taken off by an attendant, being prevented from attempting to help in the disrobing. Having been duly put to bed, he is again assured that there are always near him those whose duty and pleasure it is to answer his calls and attend to his wants. A moderate amount of light is admitted to the room, and a shaded lamp is allowed at night. To have the privilege granted him of changing his position from time to time as he lies there is a great boon, especially to the elderly subjects, and prevents many complica- tions (one being hypostatic pneumonia) while it causes none. But to be enjoined from moving—told even that he must lie very still- is terrible for the average individual. He gets a notion that the slightest move would be disastrous, and the restraint is torture. All manner of aches and other physical disturbances, including flatulence of the bowels, accumulation of gases in the stomach, etc., are inevi- table. Another occasional effect of the operation is to cause reten- tion of urine, and the function of the bladder must be looked after.