CORNEAL GRAFTING. 393 ture forceps scissors will sometimes enable one to excise a portion where, by reason of its union with the cornea, it could not be drawn out by forceps in the usual way. How much benefit is de- rived from the iridectomy and how much from the paracentesis and bandaging, it were impossible to say. No fixed and precise rules can be given for the manner of procedure in these cases— the conditions are too variable (c) If the cystoid scar has not reached proportions too consider- able, it is best to adopt decisive measures while it is yet time. The cyst-like tumor must be freely opened by an incision with a Graefe knife, all of the included iris removed that seems practicable, and what cannot be consistently taken away disconnected as thoroughly as possible from that within the eye. Having cleaned the floor of the cyst, the fistula is sought and touched with the cautery. Bandag- ing and rest in bed for four or five days complete the cure. If the ectasia has become so great and far-reaching as to make this form of treatment inexpedient, iridectomy, light cautery of the most prominent part of the tumor, the instillation of myotics, prolonged bandaging, offer perhaps the best alternatives. The cautery may be repeated as many times as it would seem to be necessary, and, if done so lightly as not to cause evacuation of the aqueous, it were well to add paracentesis for this purpose. The walls of the staphyloma are commonly of extreme thinness. The effect of cautery is not only to help the iridectomy, the paracentesis and the bandaging in bringing about flattening, but it tends to cause thickening and strengthening of the wall through the building up of connective tissue. The support afforded by snug bandaging, if continued for weeks or months, will of itself cause a deposit of connective tissue that could not occur if the eye were left free. CORNEAL GRAFTING. KERATOPLASTY. True corneal grafting, that is to say, the transplantation of corneal tissue on or in corneal tissue, is of two kinds—tectonic and optic. The first relates to the building up or on of new corneal material to replace that which is lost. For instance, a large pterygium is re- moved or an area is laid bare in the operation for symblepharon,