EXTRACTION OF CATARACT. 486 SIMPLE PERIPHERAL CORNEAL FLAP EXTRACTION. DESCRIPTION OF THE OPERATION OF EXTRACTION AS PRACTICED BY THE AUTHOR. The surgeon, the patient, and the requisite apparatus having been duly prepared (see chapter on "Preparation of Patient"), the operator takes his place at the head of the table, his assistant, who has charge of the instruments and other needed articles, being at his left, and the assistant operator at his right. If the operator is ambidextrous, he stands at the head of the table, of course, for either the right or the left eye. Should he be at all in doubt, however, as to his ability to make a satisfactory section with his left hand, he should have no hesitancy in standing with his left side to the table, for the left eye, so as to make the section with his right hand. There is nothing derogatory in thus acknowledging his slight limitation. A few words of reassurance and instruction are spoken to the patient, such, for instance, as, " I shall not hurt you, be quiet and do not squeeze the lids," and the blepharostat is introduced. We will suppose it is the right eye which is in question, and the table has been set diagonally to the window as stated. The Beard modification of Mellinger's speculum is employed. To put this instrument in place the handles are grasped by the thumb and two fingers of the right hand and pressed as near together as they will go, while, with the thumb and middle finger of the left hand, the lids are pushed widely apart, the patient meanwhile looking straight ahead, and the lid-holders are gently and deftly slid into place— first the upper, then the lower—and allowed to separate by pressure of the spring alone. If the lids do not open sufficiently, ask the patient to relax the lids and, at the same time, slowly press upon the ends of the slides, thus forcing the lids apart. Cut off the lashes of the upper lid exterior to the lid-holder if in the way. This is best done with small straight scissors, meanwhile holding a thin pad of wet cotton so as to protect the eye from the falling hairs. From an eye-dropper or other suitable implement a quantity of warm boric solution is poured on to the cornea and neighboring con- junctiva (the operator will find it of advantage to warn the patient