VARIATIONS OF TECHNIC. 53 1 situated immediately below. By this mode the leverage exerted upon the globe by the knife, in beginning the incision, is oxer- come. Besides, the handling of the forceps is not interfered with by contact with the lower lid-holder of the blepharostat. Angelucci's Fixation.—Angelucci, of Palermo, has given us a procedure that was truly an inspiration on the part of its eminent originator. This is to rotate the globe far downward and to seize, with strong fixation forceps, the tendon of the superior rectus. In this way not only is the eye perfectly steadied, but the upper lid is held out of the way. Moreover, squeezing and attempts to roll the globe upward, on the part of the patient, are done away with, there is no tendency toward gaping of the wound, and the eye can be closed on the instant when this is needful. This method is further treated of under modified forms of extraction. The other recti tendons may be similarly utilized. Making the incision or corneal section. This lies either exactly in the apparent sclero-corneal junction throughout (with or without the conjunctival flap) or in this position for the lower two-thirds of its course and is turned forward for the last third, ending a line or two short of the upper limbus. Or the same form and direction may be adhered to, while the position is just forward of the junction. The extent of the incision varies somewhat with every operator— at one time through mere accident and at another because of a definite object to be attained, as, for example, when the lens is thought to be large and firm, or vice versa. Rarely does it include as much as half the corneal base (one-half the diameter), and more rarely still, as little as one-third (one-fourth the diameter), the average being about two-fifths of the diameter, or about 7/16 of the circumference. Conjunctival Bridge.—The conjunctival flap has in some instances been left undivided posteriorly. Pensier, of Avignon,1 and Vacher,2 of Orleans, hop'ng thereby to more surely prevent vitreoUs loss prolapse and inclusion of the iris from simple extraction, conceived the idea of leaving a broad strip of conjunctiva uncut at the summit of the incision, then delivering the lens and removing the 1 " L'extraction sous conjunctivale de la cataract," Ann. d'oc, 1899, T. exxii, p. 267 et 1900. 2 "Operation de la cataracte par le procede a pont scleroconjonctival," xiii. Congr. intern, des sc. med., sect, d'opht., Paris, kjoo.