THE REMOVAL OF SUTURES. 31 together, so that it, too, should be bathed, then opened, by the dresser—not by the dressee. With oblong sponge in the fingers of one hand one proceeds, with the thumb of the other placed over the upper rim of the orbit, gingerly to lift the lid of the operated eye. If it is still stuck the wet sponge is again brought into requisi- tion; meantime repeating the command that the patient make no attempt to move the lids himself. When it is seen that both eyes are free to open he may be asked in a quiet manner to open the eyes and to look in any desired direction, and to avoid snapping and nipping of the lids. Having been assured that the patient has proper control of the lids, one may proceed more thoroughly to cleanse lashes, free borders and canthi; using the long end of sponge. Cleansing and inspection are made to consume the shortest time consistent with prudence, not to expose the eye unnecessarily to harmful agents. Whatever is indicated in the way of medication or other attention is now disposed of and the eye re-dressed as per instructions given under "Bandaging." Each time, as one is about to make the application, irrigation, instillation, or the like, it is made known to the patient what to expect. It is neither safe nor pleasant, as regards the party most directly interested, to have things put into and upon the eyes without any sort of warning, even when deftly and gently done. How much worse, then, to have them dropped from heights, squirted forcibly, and shot in, or dabbed on with a splash! The Removal of Sutures.—It is a curious fact that there is al- most as much dread of this performance on the part of our patients as of the operation that makes it necessary. Sometimes there is even more. This is something they have not counted upon and nerved up for, and it is faced with a poorer grace in consequence. Hence, great adroitness is often required to bring them to the point of calm submission. They must be disabused of the idea that the thread is tightly adherent to the flesh and that the instruments are put in actual contact with the parts involved. On the other hand, it is well to have impressed upon them the dangers of leaving the sutures in situ after the lapse of a certain period. Indeed, this is not a sophism got up merely to influence the mind. Sutures should be got rid of just as soon as they have served their purpose, and this is much earlier than many seem to suppose. x\fter that they