von graefe's method. 161 though he did not carry his idea into effect, contenting himself merely with a "fake" operation, viz., snipping the conjunctiva of the affected eye, then closing the fixing eye by means of adhesive plaster. Of course, the operated eye immediately became "straight." By the time the plaster was removed the operator was paid and gone to other fields. We have some muscle snippers in our own time who could give the smooth Chevalier pointers. A similar suggestion to that of Taylor, i.e., the division of a muscle to correct a squint, was made by Eschenbach, of Rostock, in 1752. Yet, singular to relate, for a hundred years from the time of Taylor's hint no attempt was made to put the notion into actual practice. This was left to be first done, but only upon the cadaver, by Stromeyer, of Hanover, in 1838, and by Dieffenbach, of Berlin, upon the living subject in 1839. Dieffenbach's early operation was essentially a myotomy which concerned the muscle toward which the eye deviated, and as such was both defective and formidable. It consisted in a free opening of conjunctiva and Tenon's capsule, drawing forward the Shielmuskel—the supposed faulty muscle—and the complete severance of its body. Naturally, in an era when asepsis was unknown the consequences were often dire. Septic orbital cellulitis and, moreover, secondary squint, with all its lamentable attendant defects, were so common that after a year or so the procedure fell into dissuse. About this time (1841) Bonnet, of Lyons, published the results of his anatomical researches, which had been conducted with special reference to the relations of the ocular muscles and the various ramifications of the fibrous capsule of the eye, and their bearing upon the surgery of squint. This led to subconjunctival myotomy, which lessened somewhat the dangers of infection, and later, mainly through the efforts of Jules Guerin (Nantes and Angers, about 1845) to the less harmful and simpler operation of tenotomy, and still later (about 1849) even to subconjunctival tenotomy. By these means not only was infection still further barred, but secondary strabismus be- came a less frequent sequel. The operation was taken up with a vim by A. v. Graefe in 1853, and by George Critchett, of London, in 1857, and improved and refined till, at their hands, it reached practically the status in which it is found to-day. Von Graefe's Method.—The tendon is fully exposed by either 11