197 TENDON DISPLACEMENT. the muscles that rotate the eye upward or downward are seldom indicated. Correction of the lateral deviation usually corrects the vertical also. At all events, and generally speaking, no attention need be given to any hypo- or hypertropia until there is full redressal of the eso- or exotropia. Then, if a vertical squint persists, it is time for its surgical treatment. Its cause may be looked for either in one of the vertical recti or in one of the obliques. The vertical recti in such cases lend themselves readily to the same operative measures as do the other two straight muscles. The obliques do not. Indeed these are hardly amenable to surgical interference of any kind. The inferior may be tenotomized, and the writer has twice performed the operation, and with gratifying results; but the undertaking is both laborious and risky. From time to time more or less complete tenotomies of the superior and the inferior rectus muscles have been advised for the cure—or as aids to the cure—of horizontal squint. Stevens, of New York, for a time, seemed truly ardent in his advocacy of such measures. Ever since the early investigations of Landolt, in regard to the ocular movements, it has been known that the vertically acting recti were, in addition, by their dual contraction, decided adductors of the globe—thus being the normal antagonists of the combined obliques. Landolt also pointed out that normally directed eyes are, relative to the long axes of the recti muscles, already in a state of convergence. Moreover, that, under certain abnormal conditions, the vertical recti could become abductors. Given, for instance, narrow central insertions of their tendons, especially if the globe be of large size, as in certain myopes, and the lateral muscles are lack- ing in tone, and we have what the writer once described as pivotal attachment, where there was convergent squ'nt in near vision and divergent for distance. Here the muscles and their insertions bore the same relations to the globe that two shafts with their pivots, or cranks, would bear to a wheel. The moment the rotation, in either direction, carried the pivot-like attachment beyond the center of motion the deviation became markedly manifest. Quite recently, Jackson,1 of Denver, in a paper entitled "Lateral Displacement of Tendon Insertions for the Cure of Strabismus," recommends tenotomy of the inner half, to three-fourths, of the journal of the Am. Med. Assn., Aug. iy, 1005.