THE REMOVAL OF FOREIGN BODIES. 620 standing the fact that it had been there for a long time. Foreign bodies that lie so as to involve the uveal lining of the iris are not so well-borne as the more superficial ones. The above points in technic apply equally well to foreign bodies of the iris and to those that are free in the anterior chamber. The most suitable tip for the hand-magnet in this connection is the short, thick, curved one, which rapidly tapers to a point. Its wedge-like form serves to widely separate cornea and iris while the foreign body is being withdrawn (Fig. 276). The current should not be turned on until the extremity of the tip is about in contact with the piece of metal. In the Posterior Chamber.—It has been denied that foreign bodies ever find their way primarily into the posterior chamber. That its existence is only assumed, there being really no place between the anterior capsule of the lens and the posterior surface of the iris. That those bodies that have got in between had first been in the anterior chamber and secondarily—while the patient was in the recumbent posture, for instance—slid over the pupillary border. With this in view, Hodge advises that mydriatics be omitted when dealing with a foreign body loose in the anterior chamber. A case reported by the writer in Knapp's Archives would seem to disprove these assertions. It was that of a chemist who had a glass flask burst in his face. There was a flap-like perforation of the cornea, and straight back of it an abrasion of the lens capsule, but no corresponding trace in the substance of the crystalline. The eye was kept under constant observation for two weeks, during which time there were several exacerbations of iritis. Repeated and exhaustive searches were made for a foreign body by myself and others. None was found. The eye became quiet enough for the patient to leave the hospital. He went home, and shortly after his arrival, while stooping to examine the grate-bars in his furance, he fe t a peculiar startling sensation in the eye. The eye became red and painful, and he came direct to my office. The first glance showed a cube-shaped bit of glass lying at the bottom of the anterior chamber, having undeniably dropped through the pupil at the moment the head was lowered and the pain had occurred. It was promptly removed, but with iridectomy, and the eye has given no further trouble. Now, this man came for treatment immediately