EXTRACTION OF CATARACT. 57° the cataract at the same time, in order to give ingress to one blade of the scissors. When it is not practicable to utilize the keratome in this way one must have recourse to scissors having at least the under blade provided with a keen point with which to start the cut in the capsule. The corneal incision is so located as to lie parallel with, and accessible to, that portion of the membrane which is to be divided. A steep puncture is made with the lance keratome in the exact sclero-corneal junction, and, if possible, the opening is made in the cataract with the same forward thrust of the knife; when not possible or feasible, the blade is partly withdrawn, its point placed at the spot for the opening, and again pushed forward. Having failed in this, the sharp blade of the scissors may be used. In any case the thinnest part of the cataract is chosen for the opening. It is important that the scissors be extremely delicate and of excep- tional sharpness. De Wecker's ordinary model is entirely too large. Those shown in plate VII, No. 86, are suitable, or the straighter ones, No. 85. The scissors are passed into the anterior chamber closed, then opened, and the lower blade made to enter or to cut the opening in the cataract, and to further divide it as wished. If cutting in a single direction does not seem to give a sufficient pupil, a second snip may be made diverging from the same point of entrance into the membrane, or, provided the original opening in the capsule, as made with the keratome, is long enough, two convergent snips may be made, and the triangular piece thus excised be extracted with the iris forceps (see Kuhnt's and De Wecker's iridotomies). Seeing that loss of vitreous is the bug- bear of this operation, the Angelucci fixation, described on page 542, is most appropriate, as it serves effectually to fix the globe, while, at the same time, it tends to hold the corneal wound closed, thus keeping back the vitreous. Any one of the four recti tendons may be grasped, so long as it is on the same side of the cornea as is the location of the keratotomy. It is essential that both eye of patient and hand of operator be perfectly steady. ARTIFICIAL RIPENING. The extremely slow development of some species of senile cataract, especially after the time when the sight has become greatly interfered with, has always been a source of grievance to which both patient