474 OPERATIONS UPON THE GLOBE. absolute conservation of the fibrous capsule that envelops the posterior half of the globe; the third, by the free use of antiseptic irrigation and the preservation of the walls of the globe (when its contents are septic). Here it may be again remarked that exentera- tion may be often substituted with greater safety for enucleation. INDICATIONS FOR ENUCLEATION. These may be arranged in three groups: i. absolute and impera- tive; 2. elective, and 3. optional. Absolute indications are those that leave no choice of other means of treatment. Among them are the cases for which enuclea- tion affords either the only chance or hope of preserving the integrity of the fellow eye or of saving the life of the patient. To this group belong the following classes: (a) Eyes, be they sightless or not, that are causing sympathetic irritation or the actual beginning of sympathetic inflammation. (b) All blind eyes—and in this connection blind means hopelessly so—that are exciting or have excited sympathetic inflammation, no matter what the stage of said inflammation. (c) All eyes, whether sightless or not, in which positive diagnosis of an intraocular malignant tumor has been made. (d) All blind eyes within whose walls there is any reason to suspect the presence of a malignant growth. (e) All eyes, sightless or not, where exists an epibulbar malignant growth that it is not practicable otherwise wholly to remove. (/) All blind eyes with epibulbar malignant growths, regardless of the degree of involvement. (g) Persistent pain referred to the eye after exenteration or optico- ciliary neurectomy. (h) Extreme atrophy of the globe. (i) Grave phlegmon of the orbit when sight is utterly destroyed and the operation may aid in curing the disease. Remarks on Group 1. Class a.—Ophthalmic surgeons are almost a unit in affirming that immediate excision of the globe, together with a pretty generous section of the optic nerve, constitute the only remedy. There are, however, a number of men whose word is authoritative, who would place these cases in Group 2,