573 ARTIFICIAL RIPENING. much pressure on the spatula during massage will produce luxation of the lens. A delicate brittle capsule may be ruptured and followed by rapid swelling of the lens and secondary glaucoma. Unavoidable injury to the iris may produce extensive adhesions or even irido- cyclitis. Moren reports one case followed by abscess of the cornea and another by iridocyclitis and insidious phthisis bulbi. It is generally conceded that it is contraindicated in atheromatous sub- jects, because of consecutive glaucoma, and in cataracts accompanied by choroidal lesions. After some ten or twelve years of experiment- ing and discussing, the cause of artificial ripening was not advanced. The operation was about as formidable as the subsequent extraction, yet the perplexities of the latter were in no way lightened by it. On the contrary, it was by many thought to increase its difficulties. III. Intracapsular Injection.—MacKeoun,1 basing the idea on an observation of Sir Wm. Bowman to the effect that, when the crystalline, in its capsule, was put in a vessel of water, by osmosis, a separation occurred between the lens substance and the envelope, conceived the notion of maturing cataracts by injecting a few drops of water by means of a Pravaz syringe. More recently, 1899, Jocqs, of Paris, proposed the same measure, only substituting for the water a small quantity of the aqueous humor of the eye concerned, which he injected by means of special apparatus devised for this purpose. Whether or not Jocqs ever tried the method on the human being, I do not know. He believed that the capsule was not left open, but through some experiments instituted by Mellinger, of Basle, it has been demonstrated that cataracts thus produced are only trau- matic ones with laceration of the capsule. Spataro experimented on the eyes of 23 rabbits with Jocqs' method and'produced 17 cases of severe iritis and 2 cases of glaucoma. He also proved, by control animals, that the injection of aqueous humor was much more provocative of unpleasant reaction than was that of distilled water or of normal salt solution. IV. Since the observation of Wathen, in 1885, to the effect that exposure of the eye to high degrees of heat, cataract often fol- lowed, a number of similar reports have occurred in ophthalmic literature. Meyhofer, for example, found among 506 glass-blowers 59 cataract patients, 42 of whom were under 40 years of age. And ' Ophth. Society of Great Britain and Ireland, 1885.