EXTRACTION OF CATARACT. 54° For cases of complete posterior synechia with cataract, where an attempt at iridectomy would but result in stripping off the outer layers, leaving the uvea on the capsule, and where the anterior chamber is extremely shallow, the operation of de Wenzel might be resorted to. The elder de Wenzel, about a century and a quarter ago, devised an operation for that forlorn class of cases characterized by very extensive or total posterior synechia with thickened anterior capsule or atresia of the pupil, shallow anterior chamber, etc., that is not a bad procedure to-day. It was the making of a large corneal flap just as for the ordinary extraction, except that it included the iris and lens. In other words, the knife was made to pass through these tissues as if they did not exist. Then as much as was practicable of the iris flap was excised, and the lens expelled by external pressure. Snellen, " Operationslehre," of the Graefe-Saemisch Handbook, p. 46, cites the case of an eye upon which he himself made the de Wenzel operation with brilliant success. Case 2. Example of Extractions of Congenital Capsulo- lenticular Cataract. Agnew's Modified Hook Operation.— This is the method by which, while serving as house surgeon, I had seen Dr. Agnew, of New York, make extraction in similar cases, at the Manhattan Eye and Ear Hospital'. I know that his first hook extractions were made as follows: He first introduced a strong needle through the cornea, infero- temporally (for the right eye), passed it through the lower junction of cataract and zonule, gave it a rocking motion to enlarge the opening slightly, held the needle there to fix the eye, made keratome incision above, and put in a blunt hook. He then withdrew the needle and inserted the hook at the opening made in the cataract by the needle, pulled out the cataract and had an assistant cut its zonule off as one would the iris in iridectomy. He had aban- doned this method before my connection with the hospital and before I became familiar with his work. Archie K., age 16 months, German. Brought by his parents May 3, 1888. Born with "white pupils." There were also convergent strabismus and nystagmus. The pupils dilated freely under mydriatic. Cataracts were exactly alike in both eyes. The central portions, occupying an area above the size of the normal pupil, were