514 EXTRACTION OF CATARACT. extraction. It can be classed among both the immediate and the consecutive accidents. If the bleeding takes place during the operation, the first sign of it is spontaneous gaping of the wound. Then, if the source of it is far back, either the lens or the vitreous appears. At the same time the patient complains of great pain and utters a series of groans that are of themselves distinctive of his misfortune. This groaning may, indeed, be the first warning". Whether it be lens or vitreous that first escapes, it is soon followed by a gush of blood. If the rupture is well forward, the blood may escape in advance of the other structures. Often retina and choroid are eventually expelled. So great is the force exerted by the accumulating hemor- rhage, that once, for example, while an onlooker at an operation of iridectomy for glaucoma, I saw a large, firm crystalline (transparent) forced out, entirely intact, through a rather small keratome incision. Although in order to make its exit, it had to elongate, like an ameba, yet it never halted for an instant. Patients with palpable signs of arteriosclerosis should, in view of the possibility of such hemorrhage, be handled most gingerly when it comes to extraction. Especially should one guard against sudden escape of aqueous, undue pression with fixation forceps, spoons, or cystotome, and pulling upon the iris. Prevention.—It is prevention or nothing. It is safe to conclude that most of the victims of expulsive hemorrhage after extractions and iridectomies are persons with degenerated vascular systems and abnormally high blood pressure. Even normal arterial tension is dangerously great for such operations with certain forms of degenera- tion. What more rational, then, along with other preparatory meas- ures, than to make routine practice of testing the blood pressure. If high, say above 140 mllm., and the patient's age and general signs make the situation at all precarious, a course of treatment could, with impunity, be given, calculated to lower the pressure, at least for the few critical days. Among the measures to be resorted to are blood-letting by venesection (see chapter on " Paraoperative Technic"), free sa'.ine purgation, veratrim viridis, sodium nitrite, etc.; though such medication is of doubtful efficacy in advanced arteriosclerosis. Continual tests are made with the sphygmoman- ometer to ascertain if the treatment is of any avail. When sufficient