322 OPERATIONS UPON THE CONJUNCTIVA. conjunctival adhesion covers the greater portion of the cornea; nor is it invariably true of that in which both lids are attached through- out. Though in many instances sight has been restored only by the additional operation of iridectomy. Surgical intervention is a crying need in all cases, whether blindness exists or not. Among the objects sought are greater motility of lids and globe, better vision, relief from pain, improved appearance, and the making of a socket for the wearing of a prothesis. The same principles are concerned in operations for symblepharon as in those for blepharoplasty, and the means are also similar, viz., by: A. Sliding flaps of conjunctiva. B. Pediceled flaps of conjunctiva or skin. C. Mucous or cutaneous grafts. A and B refer to autoplastyonly; C to autoplasty, heteroplasty, and zooplasty. No intervention is admissible while contraction is still active in the adhesions. 1. The surgical treatment of the first group (symblepharon anterius) presents no special difficulties. It usually suffices, for the narrow bridges, merely to cut them with blunt scissors, or with a blunt bistoury and grooved director, and to watch for reat- tachments which, occurring, are at once broken loose with a probe. If the division of the symblepharon leaves a decided opening in the ocular conjunctiva, fine silk sutures are put in to close it. If a tag of the mucosa is left hanging to the lid, it is not severed until after the healing of the bulbar wound. If the bridge is fast to the cornea, the latter is first freed by careful dissection. In cases where the defect is so large as to cause undue stretching of the conjunctiva, in closing it Arlt advised the making of a bracket or relaxing incision on either side. 2. The handling of the second class of cases, or partial symble- pharon, is, in the main, attended with great satisfaction, though they often call for much planning and perserverence. The easiest to deal with and the most frequently encountered is what is known as the columnar form, in which a thin, or relatively thin, bridle uniting the lid and globe reaches into the fornix and many times implicates the cornea. When it occupies the upper, lower, or outer