THE REMOVAL OF FOREIGN BODIES. 630 of the X-rays to make an impression upon an ordinary sensitized photographic plate. The skiagram is thrown onto the plate and, after ordinary development of the latter, is reproduced in negative form, i.e., the shadows are the clearer or lighter places. A positive printed from this constitutes the radiograph. When viewed from the glass side of the negative, the lights and shadows appear in their true relations—not reversed, so that a positive is not always needed. There are three ways of utilizing the radiograph for the localization of foreign bodies in the eye and orbit. These may be desig- nated as: 1. The graphic. 2. The stereoscopic. 3. The geometric. 1. The Graphic.—This consists in making two exposures with the eye at the same distance from the tube, but with a change of 900 in the view-point. For the right eye, for example, the plate would be placed against the right temporo-palpebral region and the tube at the left—this for the first exposure. For the second, the order would be, the plate against the closed lid of the right eye and the tube back of the head, and slightly to the right side, in both instances having the point of emission of the rays as nearly as possible in line with the center of the eyeball that is exposed. The two views will give the approximate position of the foreign body with respect to the center of the globe and to the sclera, provided certain guide- marks are employed in connection with the exposure, and a control radiogram of about the same aged subject, with limits of the globe outlined (Fig. 291) be used in the viewing. This is the quickest way, and sufficiently accurate for most cases. It would have to be an urgent case, with the necessary apparatus at hand, that could not wait for it. The localization could be effected, if need be, on the wet plate immediately after fixing. Two circles, each with a radius of about 1/2 inch (somewhat smaller for a child), could be struck on the film or the glass, its position regulated by the guide- marks and by the control picture. One of the best indicators of the position of the globe in the radiograph is one of the tiny wire eye-masks of Webster Fox, particularly the one having a circle to fit round the cornea. With this in place, and having the eye fix