76 INSTRUMENTS AND THEIR MANAGEMENT. seven mm., nor the smaller four or five. The depth of the bowl must not exceed i 1/2 mm., and it is important that the edge should have a moderate flare. Then, a small curet with finely serrated edge for such work as the obliteration of the sac or cyst wall in the operation for chalazion and for getting rid of little islands of the uvea in exenteration of the sclera is invaluable. It may be either round or slightly oval, measuring about 3 mm. across. Without going too extensively into curets, one might also venture on the acquisition of one for loosening the contents of the globe in exenteration. The most suitable form for it would be oblong and thin, and with a decided flare to the edge. For this purpose the writer prefers his exenteration knife-spatula. Exenteration Knife-Spatula.—This is an improved instrument invented by the writer1 for the rerfioval of the contents of the sclera in the operation of exenteration of the globe (Plate II). As its name indicates, it partakes in qualities and uses of both knife and spatula, being a little too dull for a knife, and too sharp for a spatula. It consists of two parts, a blade and a handle. The blade is double- edged, is about 4.5 mm. wide at its broadest part, where it joins the shank, and gradually tapers to the extremity, where it is neatly rounded. Its length is about 2.5 centimeters. It is curved on the flat for two-thirds of the distance from tip to base, to correspond to the meridional concavity of the sclera, and transversely convex on the outer surface to fit the equatorial concavity. Its inner surface is flat. The edges, while not so keen as is the edge requisite in a Graefe knife, are, nevertheless, tolerably trenchant. The rounded end is blunt—not bulbous—so that puncture of the sclera may be easily avoided The handle is of aluminum, to admit of boiling, and blade and handle are united by a nicely modeled shank. Wire Loop.—This is sometimes referred to as Fenestrated Spoon, which is a very poor name, yet one sees now and then a wire loop so clumsy that it might well be thus designated. It is needless to state that the object of this instrument is the delivery of a cataract that is luxated or has dropped into the vitreous. Seeing that it is employed at a time when there is a large corneal incision through which the vitreous is either escaping or on the verge of doing so, it is of the highest importance that a wire loop 1 Ophthalmic Record, July, 1905.