246 OPERATIONS FOR PTOSIS. the needles through them and the skin, and tie. Close the wound in the lid with two or more stitches. He thinks permanent paralysis of the superior rectus is not necessarily a contraindication to Motais operation, but may be rather an advantage, and he sees no reason why, in such a case, the whole tendon should not be transplanted and put to some use. A positive contraindication would be a thin, poorly developed superior rectus. The laying bare of the tarsus, as proposed by Shoemaker, doubt- less has its advantages. Not the least of these being the greater facility it affords for the definite and precise disposition of the transplanted tongue. My colleague Wilder has been the first, I believe, to put Shoemaker's idea into execution. This he has done of late in several instances, and expresses himself as well pleased with the outcome. In addition to adopting Shoemaker's proposal, Wilder has added a feature of his own. He reasoned, and rightly, that the little tongue gives hardly more than a single point of sup- port to the lid, and even thought that he observed, in a case that had been operated upon by the Motais method, that the free border of the upper lid showed a sort of notch corresponding to the point of attachment of the tongue. To avoid this, as well as to serve as auxiliaries to the delicate tongue in holding up the lid, he places a slowly absorbable suture in the ligament of the tarsus on either side of the buttonhole through which the tongue is drawn, and in such a manner as to slightly fold said ligament. He thus combines with the Motais measure something of that of Eversbusch—or a slight shortening or tucking of the levator tendon. Objections to, or criticisms of, a measure on purely theoretical grounds, no matter how cleverly conceived nor how logically argued, are not necessarily valid nor conclusive. Many reports have been made in ophthalmic literature of most excellent results obtained with the Motais operation. Notable among those made in this country is that of H. D. Bruns, of New Orleans. The present writer has performed it in eight cases. Two of these were trachomatous ptosis of high degree. In one the lid had fallen completely. Since the upper borders of the tarsi had undergone trachomatous degeneration, they were excised at the same time, thus allowing the anchorage of the tongue to be made at the middle