OPERATIONS UPON THE GLOBE. 3/2 the cornea would aid by causing a tiny green stain at the site of the foreign body. Throughout all the scrutiny the patient is told to turn the eyes in various directions to favor the search. Having once found the foreign body, it is easily seen afterward. If the eye has not already been prepared, it is now. One should be as scrupulous as to cleanliness of everything concerned as if for an extraction of cataract. Warm boric acid solution is the best thing with which to bathe and douche the eye. Cocain, or its analogue, is all that is needed in the way of anesthesia. I have never yet had to resort to narcosis, yet one can imagine how this might become necessary. In cases of little children, they are put in the position described under "Applications and Dressings." If there be much hyperemia, a drop of adrenalin chlorid or similar solution is put in just before the anesthetic to blanch the conjunctiva. The best all-around form of instrument is the sharp, grooved spud or gouge (Plate II, No. 42), thoroughly disinfected. A dis- cission needle is also a good instrument, provided it is not too sharp. The foreign body being of the kind that requires artificial light to show it, the lens to illuminate the spot is held by an assistant. If no one is by to help, the best substitute is one of the several forms of lens-holder. This is a head-band with jointed ball-and-socket bracket for carrying the lens, and is made fast to the patient's head. If this is not available, the patient, if one of average intel- ligence, can be made to focus the light, meanwhile supporting the hand that holds the lens against the cheek. Mode of Procedure (Fig. 212).—The patient, with a towel cover- ing the hair, is placed in an ordinary chair of suitable height, behind which stands the operator. No lid speculum is used, as this would necessitate fixation forceps also. The head is held firmly against the surgeon's breast by pressure of the base of the left palm on the forehead, while the eye is held open and the globe is steadied by pressure of the first and second fingers, the first upon the upper lid and the other upon the lower. The patient is made to look in the direction that gives the best view of the foreign body, which is lifted out in such a way as to produce least disturbance of the corneal epithelium. The practice of using very blunt instruments or of wiping the foreign body off the cornea with a mop made by wrap- ping cotton upon some small implement cannot be too strongly