49 TISSUE INJECTIONS. barrel is threaded lo screw into the needle. Such a syringe will stand all standard means of sterilization, and may be kept ready in a strong antiseptic solution. The needle is of platinum, is kept scrupulously sharp, and is sterilized by boiling. The socket contains a soft-rubber washer to prevent leakage. To use, the barrel is filled before the needle is screwed on, then, having put the needle on, the latter is pointed straight upward to expel the air. Enough of the liquid is then shot back into the receptacle to bring the piston to the proper mark on the graduated scale. The hypodermic injection is administered by picking up a fold of skin and plunging the needle into the fold coincident with its long axis, and so as to just miss the tips of the thumb and finger holding the fold, and the fluid is forced slowly in. The plunge of the needle is positive and quick—not hesitating and slow. In tin's way one gives strychnia and other stimulants to overcome the evil effects of narcotics and shock in the operating-room, and morphin for its quieting influence and for the pain after the operation. It matters little upon what part of the body the fold of the skin is chosen. Having withdrawn the needle, the part is gently massaged to favor quick absorption. It goes without saying that for any form of tissue injection the parts involved are aseptically prepared. In the intramuscular injection the chosen muscle is suddenly and deeply stabbed with the needle, avoiding the larger blood-vessels and the underlying bone. This is the kind usually employed for the administration of solutions of the mercuric salts for their constitutional effects. For the subcon- junctival injection the eye is washed, douched, and cocainized. The lids are held apart by an assistant with lingers or retractors or by the blepharostat. The patient is directed to look up, a vertical fold of conjunctiva is picked up with broad-jawed fixation forceps, just below the cornea. The needle is passed into the lower half of the fold, tangential to, but not hugging, the globe, and pointing somewhat downward. The contents of the syringe, usually some 10 or 12 minims of solution, are then exhausted, causing a large bleb of conjunctiva to rise. The syringe is withdrawn, the lids carefully closed over the bleb, and the eye bandaged. This is the form employed in the less virulent infections of the globe after opera- tions, for the local effects of mild antiseptics, like weak salt solutions and mercuric solutions. The most all-round satisfactory solution 4