ENTROPION. 264 from undue shortening of the lid, but not from too great an eversion. Presumably this last is possible, but it seems to be only theoretic- ally so. Wherein most operators fail is not that they do not obtain cor- rection of the deformity, for the merest tyro among them succeeds in this, but that their correction does not last. In the pursuit of this branch of plastic surgery, therefore, it would not go amiss to take this as a maxim—excessive immediate effect is necessary in order to insure permanent correction. Technic of the Operation.—The following description em- bodies the author's conception as to the surgical requirements of a pronounced cicatricial entropion of the upper lid, and also the details of his manner of procedure. The operation may be per- formed with or without narcosis. If dispensed with, cocain solution is dropped into the conjunctival sac. The infiltration anesthesia of Sleich is effective in preventing pain, but the swelling of the tissues it produces is highly prejudicial to nice results. The patient is prone upon a table. If both eyes are in need of the operation and the patient can or will submit to their occlusion for a few days, it is decidedly to his advantage, as to time, suffering, and inconveni- ence, to make the two operations in one sitting. One or two trained assistants are needed. First step. The canthotomy (p. 217).—Free division of the external canthal ligament is indicated. Second step. Making of the intermarginal incision that is to receive the graft. The lid is grasped, everted, and held back by the Beard lid forceps (Fig. 138) or by the tips of the fingers placed upon the eyelashes. Where the latter exists in sufficient numbers and length, one may d'spense with the forceps. This instrument has proven most serviceable, as it effectually fixes the lid and pre- vents bleeding while the making of the cut is in progress. The scalpel, with extra convexity near the extremity of the blade, held as shown in Fig. 46, is employed. The incision extends from the outer limit of the free border to, but not including the punctum. Where many fail is in making this cut too short and too shallow. If the entire free border is involved I do not hesitate to carry the incision past the punctum, i.e. , to the inner canthus. An insignifi- cant shallow incision will not retain the graft which, to be effective,