385 MASSAGE AFTER PARACENTESIS. Meibomian canals are greatly expressed, the eye and the entire conjunctival sac are copiously irrigated with warm boric acid solu- tion, and a systematic course of massage is begun. This may be either direct, i.e., by a smooth instrument, such as a glass rod with rounded end, applied immediately to the globe; or indirect, i.e., by the fingers applied exterior to the lids, the mode accredited to Pagenstecher. I prefer the last. The massage may also be either plain or medicamentous. The use of myotics in conjunction with the massage is most always indicated. These can be in the form of solution or ointment—simple or combined. The ointment is usually preferable as it clings more tenaciously to the parts chiefly concerned, and, besides, facilitates the massage as a lubricant. Simple pilocarpin muriate or eserin or both together or, to what is probably better, these two combined with cocain. The latter is the pek so warmly commended by Wicherkiewicz, who, by the way, has been one of the foremost advocates of this kind of massage. The author has of late used with apparently good results a mixture of eserin, cocain and dionin. Modus Operandi of Massage.—The same rules here given are applicable to ocular massage in general. Hands and eyes are care- fully prepared. The patient sits facing the operator. The work is done with the thumb or with the first finger, which is clad in a delicate rubber cot. Massage of any particular part of the globe, except of the cornea, is made with the patient looking in the opposite direction. Thus, for the upper equatorial region the eyes are rotated far downward, etc. By noting the position of the other eye one knows what part is being rubbed. The upper lid is utilized for the upper half, or rather quadrant, of the bulbus, and the lower for the rest. First, circular movements are made, say in the direction of the hands of a clock. Second, this is reversed. Third, move- ments in straight lines across, up and down, and diagonally. Fourth —and this is an important movement—by backward strokes, following the meridians of the globe. These are repeated, in regular sequence, over and over. The degree of pressure exerted may vary from very light to pretty firm, owing to the needs of the case, and in accordance with the judgment of the masseur. The intervals between sittings are from a few hours to an entire day, as the case demands. The duration of the massage is from two to four minutes for a single eye. By covering each thumb with a cot, both eyes 25