184 OPERATIONS UPON THE EXTRINSIC MUSCLES. writer saw much of this gifted surgeon's work in the years 1885 and 1886, during which time he met Herman Knapp, who made a long visit to Paris in the latter year. Knapp became impressed by DeWecker's enthusiasm over the measure and, on returning to New York, " made the operation a few times. The effect proving in- sufficient, I at once modified it in such a way that it was in reality a tendino-capsular advancement."1 Knapp told of his modifica- tion at the meeting of the American Ophthalmological Society in 1886, and the first published account of it appeared in the transac- Tenon's capsule opened with the scissors at the lower line of the insertion line of the tendon, a strabismus hook slipped beneath the tendon and the capsule incised over the tip of the hook on the upper side of the tendon. Three or four sutures are applied, one through the conjunctiva and the lower edge of the muscle, passing under the conjunctiva obliquely forward, then two or three millimeters through the outer layers of the sclera immediately before emerging on the conjunctiva near the vertical meridian. The second suture is on the upper side, and pursues a course analogous to the first. The third suture is passed through the conjunctiva and the middle of the muscle, advanced under the hook, which during the application of all the sutures raises the tendon, thrust through the middle of the tendon near its insertion, then through the superficial layers of the sclerotic to emerge on the conjunctiva near the cornea. If a large effect is desired, a fourth suture is applied at the side of, and similar to, the third. The sutures are tied in the same way as 1 Quoted from Knapp in Norris and Oliver, p. 876. tions of this society for that year. DeWecker very soon abandoned the original operation and adopted what is practically Knapp's modification (Fig. 76). FlG. 76.—Knapp's musculo-capsular advancement. Here is Knapp's description of it in Norris and Oliver's sys- tem, page 876: "The conjunc- tiva is vertically incised over the insertion of the tendon, and undermined around the cornea to the vertical meridian;