559 DISCISSION. chamber. In the latter situation even a small nucleus can excite secondary glaucoma, as I have good reason to know by recent ex- perience with such an instance relative to a thirty-year-old man. In the event of the nucleus having dropped down behind the iris it might be got into the anterior chamber by placing the patient on his stomach upon an operating-table, with the head hanging over the end and so manipulating and jarring it as to cause the nucleus to enter the front chamber by gravity. These facts, together with the added confidence inspired by the use of the Graefe knife and its insertion at the base of the cornea, have led me of late years to make discission in a number of cases for which formerly only extraction would have been thought of. The great majority of operators make true keratonyxis, using some form of needle or combination of needle and small knife— Knapp's for example—and pierce the clear cornea two or three millimeters from the limbus. Following the most worthy example of H. Pagenstecher, the writer has for a number of years, and with ever increasing gratification, substituted a small model of the Graefe knife for the needle, and instead of going through clear cornea, enters the instrument at the limbus or a trifle back of it. The following will suffice for a description of the operation in general, the surgeon making his choice of needle, knife-needle, or Graefe knife. Operation.—The pupil having been previously dilated, the patient is placed either upon an operating-chair or upon the table. The operator, if he be ambidextrous, stands behind the chair or at the head of the table for either eye, manipulating the knife with the hand which corresponds to the eye in question. Otherwise, in operating the left eye, he stands on that side with his own left side against the chair or table. The instruments are the blepharostat, fixation forceps (without a catch) and a Graefe knife whose blade is somewhat smaller than that of the average or regulation pattern, and very sharp both as to point and edge. Recently at the Eye and Ear Infirmary, while speaking of the requirements of the knife for discission, one of the internes, Dr. Fullenwider, suggested removing the cutting quality of the blade, save for the part to be actually engaged in the capsule and lens. The idea was so rational that I have since had put in order, for this purpose, a knife whose edge