496 EXTRACTION OF CATARACT. by Lippincott, of Pittsburgh, in the American Journal of Ophthal- mology, for July, 1904, for the description of his latest irrigator, together with a discussion of the technic and indications for lavage. It may be added that the advocates of the measure advise against prolonged and forcible irrigation and against the use of any but the blandest liquids and the mildest antiseptic solutions, such as sterile water, normal salt solution, etc. Eserin is never employed after the extraction because its effect favors posterior synechias and iritis. don'ts. Rather than overburden the description of the operation with details, the latter are here subjointed as don'ts. Don't get shaky. Pick up the knife, make a few finger move- ments with it and, if the hand is turning craven, just call a slight halt, resort to a little inward discipline, and one can usually regain his composure. A colleague once told me that when he found himself becoming demoralized on the eve of an operation, he walked to the window and, while apparently taking in the view, proceeded to give himself, mentally, a sound castigation, with the invariable effect of restoring his calm. Don't drop cold or hot liquid into the eye during or after the operation—have it lukewarm. Don't let it fall from a height onto the eye and lids, as all tends to produce wincing. Don't squirt nor fire solutions at the eye, but pour them gently over it, and always warn the patient of your intention. Don't permit sponges to touch the cornea and disturb the epithelium. Don't begin the instillation of the cocain solution until it is known that the operation can follow in not more than ten minutes. Don't let the speculum fly out of the fingers like a Jack-in-the-box while in the act of putting it in position. Get a good, firm grip on it. Don't pry the lids too far apart, for it induces spasm of the orbicularis and increases intraocular tension. Don't allow the speculum to rest heavily upon the globe. Don't fail to lift it away from the eye, and with a firm grasp, in removal. Don't use fixation forceps that have a catch, and don't forget the hand that holds the forceps while fixing the eye. Don't rotate the eye with the forceps as if it rested with its posterior surface