SECONDARY CATARACT. 567 opposite the center of the pupil, the handle is rotated in the horizon- tal plane toward the operator to bring the edge below the thicker bands, or the back of the blade is made to approach the lower pupillary border. The handle is elevated (in the vertical plane) and the point made to pierce the cataract very slantingly, then the handle is depressed (in the horizontal plane) making the blade cut upward until the incision nears the upper pupillary border, when the last movement of the handle is reversed, to bring the blade again to the horizontal, and suddenly withdrawn, meanwhile holding the eye very firmly with the forceps. The elasticity of these membranous cataracts is sufficient, in most instances, to convert the incision into an oval opening. More- over, there are many times a number of tiny posterior synechia so that the mydriasis produced by the atropin tends also to stretch open the cut. There is one rather singular feature relative to the behavior of the membrane, which is occasionally shown when engaged by the edge of the knife, that it is well to bear in mind. Instead of dividing at once, it will allow itself ,to be pushed along, doubled over the edge, and seem not inclined to yield; but simply stop the progress of the knife. Wait for a moment, and the severed bands will be seen to fall away in a clean incision. No decided sawing is needed. Whether it is the fine tremor of the hand which holds the knife or the insensible movement of the eye, something acts to induce this final parting. As before stated, however, the smallest of sawing motions best insures a prompt and smooth incision, and this can be easily and safely accomplished with the knife here employed. Now and then, previous to extraction, there has been a thickening of the central portion of one or both capsules, and the ensuing secondary cataract is not of the kind that can be easily incised, being frailly connected with the zonule and most resistant just where the cut should be faultless. The same is true of that variety of congenital cataract which is composed of a mass of connective tissue or the latter mixed with chalk. If one succeeds in the discission, the two sides are apt to fall together again and reunite, or the whole mass is merely pushed to one side without being at all divided. It afterward drifts back, and the operation counts for naught. It often happens, however, that a simple discission answers perfectly