422 OPERATION'S UPON THE GLOBE. such of these as had not been benefited by other means. It consisted in making the primary combined incision with keratome or stop- knife near the center of the cornea, and facing that segment of the periphery where the iris was most nearly normal. The intro- duction of the blunt-pointed scissors, one blade behind the iris, and making two diverging cuts, one from each end of the first iris incision, and reaching to the outer border of the iris. The interven- ing segment of iris was then forcibly torn from its fastening and extracted by means of strong straight forceps. This procedure was naturally often productive of very unpleasant reaction. Modifications.—A few of the many modes of performing the foregoing operations will be here mentioned. Iridotomy.—Milles1 and Nacati,2 instead of making the corneal incision at right angles to the course of the iris fibres, recommend making it parallel therewith in order the better to direct the cut of the scissors across said fibres. SicheU and Scherk* reverted to the Heuermann-Graefe method, but each with a knife, or rather a knife-needle, of his own invention. Sichel's instrument was something like his discission needle, only the tiny blade, instead of being curved, was straight, and resembled in form the Zehender cataract knife. The Knapp knife-needle does not differ ma- terially from the iridotome of Sichel. Scherk's was compli- cated, having on the handle an attachment whereby the little lance-like blade could be.given a sawing motion. Of all forms of simple iridotomy I prefer that of Gayet.s This is essentially the same as that given in the chapter on "Discission of Secondary Cataract" as the method of Pagenstecher. Gayet used an ordinary Graefe knife, punctured the anterior chamber at the base of the cornea, the flat of the blade parallel with the plane of the iris; the handle was then slightly raised, the iris pierced and incised, without enlarging the corneal wound, by making the blade describe a small arc. Now, it is next to impossible to make a clean cut of the iris or of a membranous cataract (and discission is but a phase of iridotomy) by mere pressure of the edge of the knife, 1 Royal Oph. Hosp. Rep., x, 3, 1882, p. 403. 2 Ann. d'opht., iii, 1883, p. 403. 3 Klin. Mbl. F. S., xv, 1877, S. 273. 4 Klin. Mbl. F. S., xxi, 1883, S. 315. s Prog, med., No. 35, 1880.