COMPLICATED AND SOFT CATARACTS. 539 those in which a regulation capsulotomy is feasible, a traction instru- ment for the getting out of the cataract will be necessary. My preference is for the open sharp hook lor the lenses and the blunt hook or iris forceps for the mats. Each operator must decide as to whether local or general anesthes'a be employed in a given case. 1 have made a great number of extractions of complicated cataracts, many of which were luxated, and I have not resorted to general anesthesia as many as three times. For the better elucidation of this subject, permit the citing of actual cases illustrative of the several kinds of cataracts and of the methods alluded to in this chapter, wherein they were put by the author to a practical and successful test. Case j. Example of Extraction of a Shrunken, Lightly Adherent Cataract, with Calcific Degeneration of the Anterior Capsule.—Stewart S., age 22, farmer. Came to me September 15, [903. At age of 7 years received blow in the right eye from end of stick in the hand of a small brother. In due time the sight of the eye failed ami the pupil looked white. The central portion of the cataract was snow-white and dense. The iris was adherent below, while the rest of the pupil dilated fairly well. The denser portion of the cataract was about the size of the normal pupil, the rest was gray with radiating streaks of white, and the whole looked shrunken. The operation occurred September T7, 1003, at the Passavant Hospital. Cocain. Incision with broad keratome was made at the upper sclero-corneal junction and the point of the knife made to incise the zonule below. While the upper lid was held back by an assist- ant, De Wecker's capsulotomy forceps, or forceps cystotome, was introduced, the thick portion of the capsule was seized and with- drawn. This set free the small, hard, opaque lens, about the size and shape of a lentil. Behind this the small sharp hook, of well open pattern, was inserted flatwise, then turned point forward and the lens caught and delivered. After closing the eye and waiting a few moments, the iris, although it had been pulled slightly into the wound, was found again in place with round pupil. There was no loss of vitreous. The eye recovered promptly, but with little vision, owing to rupture of the choroid caused by the original injury. The patient returned to his home in Iowa on the 26th of the same month.