IMMEDIATE ACCIDENTS, ETC. vitreous the lens has sunken and waiting twenty-four hours, when, as was often the case after depression, the lens will probably have returned to its place. The wound is then reopened with the spatula and the cataract extracted with a traction instrument, either loop or hook. 17. Accident.—Presentation or prolapse of vitreous. When this occurs in the uncomplicated cataracts, it is traceable, as a rule, to one of two causes—spasm of the orbicularis, squeezing on the part of the patient—or to some fault in the technic of the operator. Large or prominent eyeballs are peculiarly liable to vitreous loss from "nipping" or from pressure of the speculum, for obvious reasons. Another cause, already alluded to (page in), is found in the bar of the old-style lid-holder. Still another, the reclining posture of the patient in a chair, is said to be attended more often by this accident than the recumbent one on a table. The preventive for the first is to see that the brow is properly supported or he blepharostat held up. Inexperienced operators would do well to have a trained assistant hold the lids apart with retractor and fingers, dispensing with the blepharostat. When the blame, if it may be so termed, rests with the surgeon, it may be laid to inattention or inadvertence in some step of the operation, such as too great pression upon the fixation forceps or upon the cystotome, to insufficient opening of the capsule or cornea, to cutting beyond the equator of the lens in making the capsulotomy, etc. It may also happen in our efforts to remove the cataract re- mains after expulsion of the more consistent portion of the lens, which will be treated of later. We have often heard eye surgeons declare that they did not mind a moderate loss of vitreous, and we have often seen apparently permanent good sight, etc., in an eye that had lost vitreous in the extraction. Neverdieless, it is a danger- ous contingency and one most scrupulously to be avoided. Not the least serious nor the least common of its sequelse is extensive de- tachment of the retina and this has a way of creeping slowly and stealthily, so that months or even years may elapse before the worst comes. Remedy.—Whether the vitreous is only on the point of escaping or is actually in the act, the speculum must be removed at once and left out. For the subsequent steps of the operation, the upper lid