INSTRUMENTS AND THEIR MANAGEMENT. 12 2 or else there is a tendency to fork. Both are bad, for the reason that the very tips of the blades constitute in the scissors the only parts that actually engage the tissues. Wantonly opening and shutting scissors, when they are not in real use, is highly pernicious, as it spoils their edges, produc'ng roughness and grating. This can be made to disappear, when not too far gone, by passing the edge of the thumb-nail or other smooth object of similar hardness along each blade, pressing from the flat, or articulating side, toward the bevel. A BALANCE FOR KNIFE TESTING. Smith, Priestly, Birmingham (Ophth. Review, Aug., 1903), has devised a simple instrument to determine by actual measurement the pressure which we have to employ to cut or puncture the leather of the test-drum. It resembles a see-saw in miniature. One arm of the beam carries a small drum covered with the thin white kid (shagreen) sold for this special purpose; the other is marked with a scale indicating grammes, and carries a sliding weight which gives to the drum an upward pressure varying from o to 18 grams. To test the point of a knife the drum is placed in a horizontal plane, the point gently pressed against the leather, and the weight moved until the knife persistently punctures the leather instead of depressing the beam. All punctures should be made in the transverse diameter of the drum so as to be at the same distance from the fulcrum. To test the edge, the drum is placed on edge, vertically, and the knife, passed through a slit in the leather, is pressed downward without thrusting or sawing. Using a given piece of leather for all, a number of knives may be compared and placed correctly in order of merit. We can measure the effect on a given knife of immersion in boiling water, of antiseptic fluids, or of use, and compare various models of puncturing or cutting instruments. Good Graefe knives, new or newly sharpened, puncture at a pressure of 1 to 2 grams. They cut at from 10 to 14 grams, and with a tight leather some of them at 8 grams. As a rule, they cut more easily near the point. Cataract needle-knives cut at 14 to 18 grams. Cystotomes, new, punctured at 4 to 8 grams; resharpened, at 10 to 18 grams.