447 IRIS HOOKS. being of delicate make and with extremities of limbs more or less curved. As few surgeons now employ any but toothed iris forceps, the special feature of its construction has reference mainly to the arrangement of the teeth, which is a matter of choice on the part of the operator. This appears to be about evenly divided between those with the teeth placed mesially of the jaws and those situated posteriorly, called, respectively, middle-toothed and back-toothed. In both instances the teeth are even with the tip of the blades, and, in case of the back-toothed variety, they are also flush with the nether edge of the tip. It is only in those instruments peculiarly designed for grasping the adherent and the funnel-shaped iris, and in the capsule forceps, that the teeth project beyond or below the edge. These are not safe instruments for simple iridectomy, on ac- count of the risk to the lens, though invaluable in their proper sphere. The rotary forceps of Liebreich and Mathieu, after which was patterned the forceps-scissors of De Wecker, are excellent for use with incisions of limited extent, since they admit of wide opening of the jaws without separation of the blades. The first have their teeth in the middle, the second at the back. They are, moreover, the safest forceps with which to go after a second bit of iris when the first piece excised is deemed inadequate. Many operators seem undetermined as to the breadth to which the iris should be seized, to regulate which Kuhnt1 invented a forceps with adjustable stop, which can be set for a broader or a narrower grasp—especially useful, as in optic iridectomy, when a narrow or small coloboma is wanted. The writer's preference is for the back-toothed kind, and for correct model of the instrument the reader is referred to the chapter on Instruments and their Manipulation} By it the iris is readily laid hold of with a minimum of bearing down and tilting forward. Iris hooks are of two kinds—sharp and blunt. The first is for engaging the tissue of the membrane itself for withdrawal, the second to catch its pupillary border. The sharp hook (of Beer) has been abandoned because of its danger to the lens and its faculty for becoming entangled within the anterior chamber. The blunt hook, the invention of Himly, though commonly attributed to Tyrell, is still used to some extent. It is particularly useful for iridectomy » Centralbl. f. A., 1879, S. 138.