ACCIDENTS, ETC., CONSECUTIVE TO EXTRACTION. 517 offer less resistance to the quick outrush of the aqueous than if its pupil were small. These are conditions that demand immediate attention, i.e., removal of the bandage and inspection of the eye. If the iris be found in the wound and is sufficiently free to admit of the procedure, the eye is cocainized, the iris is replaced with the spatula, as described a few paragraphs back, and eserin instilled (Fig. 240). If this be impracticable the only alternative is to make an iridectomy. In- deed, in but few instances are we allowed any other. Now and again when cicatrization is pretty well established, a small hernia or projection of the iris is noticed, for which a searing by means of a small galvanic electrode proves a most efficient remedy. A recent hernia may sometimes be manipulated with smooth-jawed forceps and spatula, till thoroughly mobilized, sn pped off, the iris replaced, the opening seared w thin the galvanocautery, and eserin instilled; though myotics, as a rule, are of little avail. Many times, undoubtedly, this rush of aqueous is induced by something which takes place at the first dressing of the eye, most often by pressure that is brought to bear upon the lids in first open ng them, either by the physician's thumb or by the patient's orbicularis (see After-treatment). H. Beckles Chandler, of Boston, contributes an article to Knapp's Archives for January, 1904, entitled, "Report of 312 Cases of Cata- ract Extraction with a Small Peripheral Buttonhole of the Iris." This opening is made by excising, by means of small iris forceps, whose teeth "are at the tip end," "and scissors whose blades are very thin," a circular piece of the iris, one millimeter in diameter and "as near the root of the iris as possible." The corneal section is exactly in the sclero-corneal junction and the buttonhole is made after delivery of the lens. According to the author, it serves the double purpose of a sluice-gate for preventing prolapse and of a vent through which to milk out the cortex that slips up behind the iris. In the 312 extractions reported, there was iris prolapse in but four, and two of these were " the direct result of violence." It has long been a mooted question as to whether or not iridectomy really tended to prevent prolapse and incarceration of t he iris. Panas reports iris prolapse in 5 per cent, of simple extractions. Becker says this accident more frequently follows the combined than the simple