OPERATIONS UPON THE GLOBE. 3«4 1 Ulcus Serpens Cornea und seine Behandlung, Bonn, 1870. chamber may be used to wash out the clot or curd. If the iris escapes in spite of proper care in making the incision, it can usually be replaced with the spatula. If not, the prolapse must be excised. The eye is bandaged in the regulation way. A distinctive method of paracentesis is the incision of Saemisch,1 and one that has been extensively employed in the different infectious ulcers of the cornea. The original mode was to make the incision as nearly as possible in the center of the ulcer. Alfred Graefe and Meyhofer taught to make the cut as a tangent to the ulcer and thus slit the infiltrated border, and that in the direction of its greatest progress. Saemisch also came to make it somewhat similarly. Since part of the object of the incision was to drain and relax the infiltrated tissue, as in orbital phlegmon, this would seem rational. A narrow Graefe knife is used; the blade is entered, edge forward, at one extremity of the affected" area, and brought out at the other extremity, in its passage being made to open the anterior chamber; i.e., by puncture and counter-puncture. The incision is reopened daily by a small probe or probe-pointed lacrimal knife till the ulcer is no longer a menace. The constant leakage of aqueous is believed to prevent infection of the deeper parts of the eye. Manifestly, the same precautions must be taken against squeezing out of the crystalline, etc., as in other forms of paracentesis. The operation is difficult with the Graefe knife in certain meridians upon deeply set eyes, a difficulty that can be overcome by the use of a small sickle-shaped blade. Anterior synechia, leucoma adherens, and glaucoma, the natural sequels of septic processes in the cornea, not to mention panoph- thalmitis, are more frequent after paracentesis of any kind has been resorted to in the treatment of kerato-hypopyon. Paracentesis and Massage in Glaucoma.—In cases of chronic or intermittent or irritative glaucoma—in short, in any but the acute idiopathic variety—these are therapeutic measures that cannot be too strongly recommended. They are harmless and cause the patient little inconvenience, yet often effective in the highest degree. The paracentesis should be thorough and very slowly made. Within from 6 to 12 hours afterward the eye is washed outwardly with warm sublimate solution, the contents of the