SUMMARY. 247 of the tarsus instead of at the upper border. The outcome of these cases was so singularly gratifying that I. wondered if it were not best oftener to combine the operation with a slight excision of the tarsus. I have recently seen a recommendation to that effect by a French author. In the operations just referred to it was necessary first to make a free canthotomy, in order the better to manage the upper lid, there having been considerable atrophy of the conjunctiva. In addition to the two cases just mentioned, my eight included five of congenital ptosis and one from traumatic paralysis of the levator. The results in all of them are far and away the best I have ever obtained in this affection. As concerns the last case operated it was feared for a time that either the tongue had broken, or the suture had pulled out of it, but this fear proved to be groundless. The manner in which the free border of the upper lid keeps out of the way of the pupil, as the subject looks further and further up- ward, is truly beautiful to contemplate. As regards annoying diplopia, upward squint, inability to keep the lids closed during sleep, etc., I have not observed any of these. It is true, however, that one can, soon after the operation, demonstrate hypertropia. According to this phase of the subject, one would naturally conclude that cases of bilateral ptosis, having both eyes operated, would be more likely to escape this complication than would the monolateral ones. I find that in congenital ptosis the lack of power in the superior rectus is main'y clue to non-use, for these subjects have no oc- casion to rotate the globe upward. By careful examination it can usually be demonstrated that there is limited function in the muscle. No matter how little there is, the Motais operation is the one, in my opinion, that should be chosen. After the lid is once raised the superior rectus develops more and more its proper function. Herein lies the explanation of a unique and most gratifying feature of the Motais method, viz., the constantly increasing enchancement of the effect for weeks and even months after the operation. A little study is invited of the accompanying drawing (Fig. 121), which is a tolerably accurate representation, in vertical, median sec- tion, of the tissues concerned in the surgery of ptosis. This will dem- onstrate that any measure which folds or in any way shortens the broad ligament of the tarsus, not only advances the levator and