SQUINT HOOKS. 73 is as to size. Both were designed as iris hooks, i.e., for catching the pupillary border, not as was Beer's, for catching in the stroma. The larger is attributed to Himly, and is about as lumbering a thing as can well be imagined. The other is known, in this country, as Tyrrell's. It is, truly, a tiny button-hook, seeing that it has not only the form, but the blunt point, as well, and is much more dainty than Himly's. In the sometimes difficult task of seizing with forceps the funnel-shaped iris of aphakial eyes, for instance, and for the extraction of some adherent and much shrunken cataracts, Tyrrell's blunt hook will come nobly to the rescue. Its form and its smooth, round point peculiarly fit it for its insertion and with- drawal through the corneal wound. The mode of using it is described under Agnew's Blunt Hook Operation. Squint Hooks. There are three standard sizes of such hooks, and at least one of each should be provided, for each size has its appropriate uses. There is a vast difference in the crooks of squint hooks. Some makers seem to think that all that is de- manded is to give to a round rod of steel of definite size a given bend. But those who understand the exigencies of the instrument know that the correct fashioning of its working extremity is no mean job, either as to the configuration of the bend or as to that of the metal comprising the bend. The bend is far from a right-angle one, as has often been stated. It may be best described as an arc of a circle. True, the chord of the arc makes a right angle with the long axile of the stem or shank. And it must be insisted upon that the chord be that of a true circle—not of a parabolic curve. In the Graefe hook, which is the largest of the three sizes recommended, the radius of the arc is 5 mm., its height, or rise, is 2 mm., and the length of its chord, which, as said before, is at (jo° to the stem, is g mm. In the intermediate hook—suggested, I think, by Landolt— the chord measures 7 mm., and in the smallest, that of Stevens, it measures 5 mm., the rise, and the radius being proportionately less The sides of the hook are flatfish, i.e., in cross section the crook would represent an oval, whose short diameter is constant in every part of the bend, being about 1 / 2 mm. for the largest and the intermediate, somewhat less for the smallest. The long diameter of the oval in the Graefe hook, gradually increases from 2/3 mm. at the center of the curve, to 1 1/3 mm. at the free end, the