28o ECTROPION. that has met with approbation. Jaeger's lid spatula is put into the lower fornix and an incision made through skin and muscle, down to the tarso-orbital fascia, ten to twelve millimeters from the free border, parallel with it, and somewhat longer than the palpebral fissure. The upper flap, with its muscle, is undermined up to the cilia and the fascia is exposed. Three sutures are introduced as follows: the needle is passed through loosened skin and muscle four millimeters or more from the border, thence carried upward, between muscle and tarsus, and passed straight through to the conjunctival surface, close up to the cilia. It is taken back the same route, only three millimeters away. One thread is placed in the center and one near either canthus and tied over sections of tubing. In closing the incision with interrupted sutures they are made to dip in and out of the tarso-orbital fascia, much after the manner of those used in Hotz's operation for entropion. The chief feature is the doubling of the skin flap upon itself (Fig. 149). Angelucci1 makes a similar operation in all save Fig. 149.—Fukala's incision and that no sutures are used. Atonic suture for ectropion of the lower lid. ectropiorl) whether the result of actual paralysis of the orbicularis or from a senile atrophy and relaxation of the tissues of the lid, requires practically the same surgical treatment, though the age of the subject, and the prospect of a cure, as in the case of certain paralyses of the seventh nerve, would have a tendency to qualify the means. Three dominant principles underlying most of the operations that have been undertaken for this variety of ectropion, are: (1) shortening the free border by excision of a wedge therefrom, (2) the pushing up and shortening by means of sliding flaps and excision of a triangle of skin at the external canthus, and (3) the narrowing of the palpebral fissure, or the holding up the drooping lid, by one of the forms of tarsorrhaphy, or combinations of these. The fact 1 Rev. gen. d'Opht., 1898, No. 9.