329 SYMBLEPHARON. below the lid, cut through into the bottom of the newly prepared fornix along the upper edge of the flap, pushed the latter through the opening, twisted the pedicles to bring what had been the lower edge on a level with the free border, and stitched it in place with its epithelium facing the eyeball. The result was only a partial success. Panas1 in a similar case cut a flap from the temple and one from the cheek, carried them through a buttonhole in the outer orbito- palpebral furrow, applying one to the lid and the other to the globe, their cuticular surfaces in contact. After they had become firmly adherent, their pedicles were cut and the buttonhole closed. For total symblepharon of both lids, the same surgeon took a large flap, the shape of a tennis racket, from the temple, pedicle near the orbit, turned it in through the palpebral fissure, and put the raw side in apposition with the two freshly dissected tarsi. At the end of three months the flap was bisected horizontally, to reestablish the open- ing between the lids. The operation was undertaken to enable the patient to wear an artificial eye, the cornea having been destroyed by sulphuric acid, but the object was not attained. In a case of double total symblepharon, in which heteroplastic and other autoplastic procedures had been tried in vain, Samelsohn2 succeeded in the manner following: from the skin of one lid he borrowed a quadrilateral flap, which was left attached along the ciliary border, and turned it into the palpebral fissure to line the posterior surface of the opposite lid. Union having been established, the ■flap was severed at its base and the measure was repeated, from the other side, for the fellow lid. The principal cause of failure in most of these flap operations has doubtless been neglect to construct a capacious artificial cul-de-sac and to provide means for its preservation. Panas, with his two flaps for the restoration of the lower fornix, fulfilled the first condition, but not the second. To cover only one side of the raw pocket made by separating the lid is clearly a lame procedure. The most formidable foe to be combated in this surgery, is the progressive ankylosis between lid and globe, which tends to efface one's work. As a support for the transplanted tissue—to keep it in place—in coaptation with the surface it is to unite with, and to 1 Mai. des Yeux, T. ii, p. 182. - Heidelberg Congress Report, 1892, p. 149.