206 CHAPTER V. OPERATIONS UPON THE LIDS. EVERSION. Eversion of the lid consists in turning it so as to expose its conjunctival surface, together with the retrotarsal folds, and to accomplish which the essential feature implies the inverting of the stiffening plate of the lid, viz., the tarsus. The ends sought in everting the lids are manifold, such as examination and topical treatment of the conjunctiva, the removal from it of foreign bodies, the excision of tumors of the tarsal plates and the making of various other operations. Although the performance seems a simple affair, it is really one involving considerable sleight, and the constant need of the procedure gives it importance. Moreover, the fact that the eye, naturally a sensitive organ, is rendered all the more so by the affections requiring eversion, makes it incumbent on the operator to be deft in its execution. The novice is hardly expected to do the thing without awkwardness, but that so many of the older and more experienced eye surgeons should perpetually exhibit this quality in the little act is truly surprising. Method for the Upper Lid. (Fig. 87).—Standing or sitting in front of the subject, the operator rests the tips of the fingers of his right hand upon the brow; with the thumb and index of the left hand he takes hold of the lashes, tells the patient to look all the while far downward and to refrain from squeezing. He pulls the lid well down on the stretch and slightly away from the eyeball, places the right thumb on the skin, opposite the upper border of the tarsus, pressing it downward and backward rather slowly and steadily at first, till, feeling that he has the plate well in hand, he gives a quicker down and back impulse to the upper border and an equally quick forward and upward one to the free border, ending the move in turning the tarsus completely upside down (Fig. 88). The right hand is removed as is the left forefinger, but the left thumb remains to hold the lid everted, by pressing the lashes back against the