\\ I.S I 11 I SIA. I I in solution of only i%, and has the advantage of retaining its proper- ties longer than cocain. The chief objections to cocain arise from overdosage or prolonged application. This leads to dryness and desquamation of the corneal epithelium, to dilation or relaxation of the blood-vessels, and to hypotonicity of the globe. The hrst favors infection, and the last two cause hemorrhage. The third objection is turned to a virtue, however, in glaucoma, where cocain, notwithstanding its mydriatic effect, may be used with impunity not only as an anesthetic, but also as a remedy. The first effects of cocain on the normal eye are contraction of the blood-vessels and perfect anesthesia. Hence, it is most expedient to operate during the primary stage in so far as it is possible. To this end the instillations should not be begun longer than ten minutes before the operation. A good rule is to start the boiling of the instruments and the application of the cocain simultaneously. Four drops with two-minute intervals is sufficient. If the eye be hyperemic it is less susceptible to the drug, but it can be blanched by adrenalin, and then anesthetized. A convenient and highly efficacious form of cocain application is the fresh sterile cocain ointment. This has such staying qualities that a single laying-on is enough. More- over, it is said not to disturb the corneal epithelium when fat instead of water is the vehicle. Ramsay recommends a few drops of 5% chloretone solution, along with the cocain, to offset the harmful results to the epithelium. It has been often denied that there is aught accomplished by dropping cocain into the open wound in operations upon the appendages, hut the facts do not seem to up- hold the denial. Infiltration Anesthesia.—It had long been known that a dense infiltration, of the skin, for instance, caused anesthesia of the part. Oberst, in 1889, turned this to account by producing artificial infiltration, by means of a hypodermic syringe and distilled or salt water preparatory to the making of incisions. Schleich, in 1889, went further, and added a modicum of cocain (1/8 to 1/4%) to the fluid for the syringe. Both these methods are rather exten- sively employed in the surgery of the lids. A wheal, or a series of wheals, of edema is raised at the site of the proposed operation by introducing a fine hypodermic needle nearly its whole length into the skin, and gradually withdrawing it as the liquid is injected.