FORCEPS. 93 upon. As to the locking variety, it behooves one to see that the catch works easily and smoothly. In case the hold seems insecure, it can be made firmer by picking up the conjunctiva and tissue beneath in a rather large fold and giving it a twist. Beard's' Fixation Forceps, with the collaboration of Mr. V. Miiller, an instrument maker of Chicago, the writer, a few years ago, set about attempting to improve upon the models of this in- strument in general use. The chief aim was to produce a fixation forceps that would not necessitate the awkward bend at the wrist, and the placing so much in evidence of the hand that steadies the eye in such operations as extractions and iridectomies. The first product of the effort was an effective, though rather too com- plicated affair, whose jaws emerged from one end of a tube by pressure Fig. 38. of the forefinger upon a knob at the other end. This was abandoned in favor of the model shown in Plate VII and Fig. 38. This is an adaptation of Mathieu's forceps-scissors to the needs in question. The scissors blades are left off, and in their place are the members of the forceps. Instead, however, of moving in the same sense as the scissors, the lower portions of the instrument are given a quarter turn, so that they are set in a position at right angles to that of the scissors. Thus it is not necessary, in fixing the globe to turn the tips of the fingers holding the forceps to such extent that they point toward the operator (Fig. 39), and the forceps hand is got out of the way and out of the light (Fig. 40). Rat-tooth and Mouse-tooth Forceps.—These two kinds are, as their names would imply, distinguished only by their size—except- ing that, rarely, the larger has a couple of extra teeth. The general proportions of the rat- ooth forceps are the same as those of the fixation class. The jaws, however are not extended laterally, but are flush with the extremities of the branches. The teeth are very strong and about 1 mm. in length. There are usually three teeth, so arranged that the one, in the center of one jaw, fits nicely between 1 See Ophthalmic Record, Feb. 1907, for more desirable text on this forceps.