39« OPERATIONS UPON THE GLOBE. with the bunched needles one pricks the spot through the mass of ink. The needles are jabbed in both perpendicularly and obliquely, and until the color is sufficiently dense. The aim is to get the ink deep in the corneal substance without perforating. If rather free bleeding occurs, it may be stopped for a time by adrenalin solution- else the operation should be postponed. Indeed, a single sitting never suffices for an effective and lasting result; from three to five or even more being required, with a week's interval between. It has been estimated that from 100 to 120 pricks at a sitting are necessary to obtain a good black pupil, and as many as 2,000 where the leucoma is large and the peripheral portion is made to simulate the iris. One should practise tattooage on fresh pigs' eyes, then examine sections of the cornea microscopically, in order to get an idea as to the proper force one should impart to the strokes of the needle instrument. Considerable judgment and skill are needed to do the thing right. If one is uncertain of his hand in the matter, he should confine the maneuver to the slanting strokes. Every little while the pricking must be stopped while the cornea is wiped clean and warm boric or salt solution is gently poured over it, and note made of the effects—distribution of the pigment, etc. Through- out, an assistant keeps the lower conjunctival fornix free from fluid, but sponges the cornea only at the surgeon's bidding. Most surgeons recommend using the needles on the bare cornea, that is, before applying the ink, then rubbing the latter in with the finger. While I have no exact data to prove the assertion, it but stands to reason that a greater quantity of pigment can be driven into the cornea by piercing it through the mass of finely divided ink than could be rubbed in. There can be no harm in rubbing, however, but let it be by the back of a tiny spoon or the like—not in this primitive and unsurgical manner with the finger. The ink and the slightly fibrinous exudation from the cornea form a sort of pseudo- membrane that rather resists one's efforts to wipe it off. I fancy that this, by the entanglement of the pigment, tends to prevent the needles from driving it in; hence, another reason for frequent pauses and cleansing of the cornea. The eye is bandaged and the patient cautioned to remain very quiet for forty-eight hours. The reaction is usually slight. Armaignac,1 of Bordeaux, employs 1 Receuil d'opht., Aug., 1903.