434 OPERATIONS UPON THE GLOBE. termed antiphlogistic iridectomy. Whatever the variety or the grade of the glaucoma—whether acute (fulminant), subacute {intermittent), chronic {simple), secondary {symptomatic), absolute {degenerative), or congenital {hydropJithalmus), the same surgical principles are applicable, though the technic and the instruments by which the several steps are accomplished vary with the demands of the case and are treated of in detail later. Iridectomy, as regards its indications in glaucoma, has many limitations. In simple or chronic glaucoma it is admissible only when there is unmistakable overtension, either constant or inter- mittent or as a last resort. In absolute glaucoma it may, perhaps, be tried when there is also glaucoma of the other eye. In mono- lateral absolute glaucoma, except the progress of the affection is sufficiently well known to exclude the possibility of an intraocular tumor, such as melanosarcoma, the eye must be enucleated at once. In acute hemorrhagic glaucoma it is allowable. In acute idiopathic and acute secondary glaucoma following operations and injuries, the indications are positive, imperative, and immediate. The steps themselves are notably specialized, and are, in most respects, the direct antithesis of those in optic iridectomy, that is to say, the in- cision must be as nearly scleral as practicable; its extent must exceed that which is recpuired merely for getting at the iris, being usually equal to about one-fifth that of the corneal limbus; the coloboma must be broad and reach to the very root of the iris; the location of the coloboma is a fixed one, i.e., in the upper segment of the iris. c. Therapeutic iridectomy of the third class is, as stated, both prophylactic and curative; moreover, in order to fulfill the first three indications mentioned under this heading, viz., foreign bodies, tumors, and parasites in the iris, the methods to be employed par- take of those appropriate to both optic iridectomy and that for glaucoma. To remove a clean foreign body which has but recently become entangled in the iris, for example, the length of the primary incision shall not be greater than is ample for proper manipulation of the forceps, nor placed back of the limbus, except when the situation demands it, nor the piece of iris excised be much larger or more peripheral than is sufficient to include the offending sub- stance. Given, a sarcoma of the iris, however, while the same