ACCIDENTS, ETC., CONSECUTIVE TO EXTRACTION. 515 time can be had before the operation, the prolonged administration of the iodids and the making of a preliminary iridectomy are advisable. The extraction should follow within a few days or a week of the iridectomy, while the intraocular tension is still low. Other precautions are narcosis—gas and ether, or, if everything is favorable chloroform—for the operation; and sedatives, such as codein, chloral, cocain, or morphin, immediately before and after the operation, and the avoidance of mydriasis. Both eyes should be snugly bandaged after the extraction, a protective mask put on, and the patient be under the constant surveillance of a trained nurse or trusted attendant. Remedy.—There is lit lie that can be done. Remove all ex- traneous pressure, cut off the vitreous, if prolapsed, coapt the lips of the wound as well as possible and apply a compressive bandage to both eyes. Give the sufferer a dose of morphin and put him to bed where he should be placed in a half-reclining posture. The ultimate lot of the majority of these eyes is enucleation or atrophy of the globe. 2i. Accident.— Yawning or upheavel of the lips of the wound. In rare instances this is apparent or else there is a tendency for one lip to override the other—vicious coaptation. The former occurs without actual presentation of vitreous. De Wecker asserts that it is sometimes the result of puncture of the hyaloid fossa, in attempts to rid the eye of lens remains, and is due to a rising intraocular pressure which may be detected by palpation, the resistance actually increasing under the linger. Another symptom is the pushing upward of the iris. He warns against making further pressure on the globe, as it would precipitate escape of vitreous and advises immediate instillation of eserin solution and bandaging. ACCIDENTS, ETC., CONSECUTIVE TO EXTRACTION. Prolapse or Incarceration of the Iris.—This is a casualty that sometimes intervenes between the operation and the firm healing of the incision, and is, in most instances, produced by some force that causes the wound to open, such as coughing, sneezing, straining, striking the bandage over the eye with the hand or against some object or the impact of a faulty dressing. It is by some also