134 OPERATIONS UPON THE APPENDAGES OF THE EYE. to treatment than do similar affections in older subjects, but the remedial measures should be instituted as early as possible. Often the closure is merely epithelial, and a single passing of the olive- tipped gold sound, described on page 125, will suffice to effect a cure. It is necessary, of course, to pass the sound all the way down till it enters the nasal cavity. This can be accomplished in most instances under local anesthesia, after first dilating the punctum and holding the child's head between one's knees in the regulation manner. Sometimes a few syringings with a mild antiseptic solution will be needed after once the sound is passed. Bowman's Operation; Incision or Slitting up of the Can- aliculus.—The objects sought in this procedure are the evacuation of an abscess of the lacrimal sac that threatens to break externally, the relief of congenital atresia or stenosis from traumatism or inflamma- tory processes, foreign bodies, such as short hairs, fragments of the beard of grain, and the so-called dacryoliths, or "tear-stones," in the canaliculi, and rarely, the dislodgment of a foreign body that has entered the lower orifice of the nasal duct; to make prac- ticable the employment of the larger probes and of thorough cathe- terism and for curettage of the sac. Yet other indications are sometimes found, such as eversion of the inferior punctum and new growths. There are three good reasons why an abscess of the lacrimal sac should not be permitted to rupture through the overlying in- tegument—the obliterating adhesion, the ugly scar, and the hazard of a fistula. The operation is not made so often as it formerly was, for the reason that the use of the syringe for treatment of ordinary dacryo- cystitis has largely supplanted the method of systematic and progressive probing that was once so poular. But a single instru- ment is required, viz., some one of the various modifications of the Weber canaliculus knife. Agnew's (Plate I) is the one preferred by the writer. Its probe point has not the long, slender, easily broken neck of the Weber model. The edge of its blade is slightly convex, which gives better cutting power than if it were straight, and it has a long shank of tough, malleable iron that can be bent to meet the exigencies of an overhanging brow. Cocain or any local anesthetic is of little value for the opera-