MANIPULATION OF INSTRUMENTS. they represent, are not, as a rule, desirable. A special needle, for use in advancement operations, is described under "Muscular Advancement." All needles are supposed to have sharp edges as well as sharp points, and their eyes should be smooth and rounding where the thread strain falls, and a large as practicable. The so-called self-threaders are all right for most operations, but for those in which it would be disastrous to break the thread, they are not to be trusted, for they cut the strands, thus causing both ir- regularity and weakness. A certain number of ordinary probes and cotton carriers, pref- erably silver, and our selection is complete. Manipulation of Instruments. In this connection, Landolt, with characteristic terseness, remarks, "Just as, by the mere act of grasping a foil and putting himself on guard, the classic fencer is distinguished from the pretended swordsman, so is a surgeon of correct training, the moment he touches an instrument, dis- tinguished from the autodidactic operator. The last may succeed, for example, in extracting a cataract without losing the eye—his work, as a whole, may be attended with fairly good results—but no one will deny that, in point of perfection of results and number of successes, the advantage will always lie on the side of right training." How obtain this training? Assuredly not standing around oper- ating tables and " looking on!" One would as well try to become an expert billiard player in the same way. A start can be made under the instruction of one fitted to teach. Not necessarily a finished nor a famous operator. Surgery, in this regard, is like music—■ not all who excel in imparting a knowledge of the art are adepts in its execution, and vice versa. Having been grounded in the elemen- tal principles, constant practice is indispensable. In the beginning only upon the fresh eyes of animals fixed in a mask and upon those of the cadaver. Later, upon those of the live human eye, but always, during periods when sufficient opportunity is not afforded for this, keeping up, at least, the work on the animals' eyes. Then, to train the fingers to that suppleness and precision of movement that are of inestimable value to the eye surgeon, all manner of odd moments are utilized. It suffices for this simply to go through with, over and over, the different motions appropriate to the more