OPERATIONS UPON THE GLOBE. 2 Archiv. S. Oph., Bd. xiv, i„S. 273, 1868. 39° The surgery of total staphyloma dates from ancient times. The Greeks and Romans as early as the Alexandrian period practised ligation for its removal. A needle and thread were run through the center of the base. The thread, which was left double, after being pulled well through, was cut near the needle. Of the two threads thus formed, one was used to ligate each half of the staphyloma. ^Etius, early in the Christian era, improved upon this method by employing two needles put through the base at right angles one to the other. Thus, when the double threads were pulled through and cut, four ligatures were made, one for each quarter of the tumor. Am- brose Pare, in the 16th century, in case of a staphyloma that pro- truded beyond the lids, amputated it bodily. Beer, of Vienna, in 1805, gave a method that, under the name of abscission, became classic. By means of his triangular cataract knife he made puncture and counterpuncture in the horizontal meridian at the base of the elongated cornea, directing the edge of the blade forward and downward, cutting out within the base below, then, with the scis- sors, he made a similar incision upward, completing the abscission. Of course, the lens and part of the vitreous often escaped by the enormous opening. George Critchett,1 of London, to keep back the contents of the globe after the Beer abscission, first inserted threaded curved needles, convexity backward, from above downward through the ciliary body, about 3 mm. apart, left them projecting from the sclera at either end to serve as bars to the vitreous, etc., while the staphyloma was removed. The needles were then passed on through, leaving the sutures in their places, the last being tied to close the wound. Not liking the idea of passing needles and threads through the sclera, and especially through the ciliary region, Knapp,2 using fine curved needles, put them through the con- junctiva and superficially into the sclera, as shown in Fig. 216. Beginning just external to the vertical meridian, a little back of the base of the cornea, one needle was put through the conjunctiva and quilted for a distance of 4 or 5 mm. horizontally outward, brought out, carried below the cornea, and passed in the same way, but from without inward. The thread was not drawn down between the two points, but left standing in a long loop. A second suture was 1 Royal L. O. H. Reports, vol. iv, p. 1, 1863.