245 SUMMARY. during sleep after the Motais-Parinaud methods than after other operations for ptosis. Shoemaker, of Philadelphia, in the Annals of Ophthalmology, Oct., 1907, makes certain pertinent remarks as to the Motais opera- tion from the theoretic standpoint. For instance, he says, "Motais claims to supply a perfect physiological substitute for the levator by such a transplantation of the superior rectus tendon. This is not actually the case, but the lid after the Motais operation is held in its new position by anchorage to a fixed point on the eyeball, so that there can be no elevation or movement of the lid through the trans- planted portion of the superior rectus independent of the eyeball." Did the writer of these words bear in mind how slightly, even in the normal eye, the levator can act independently of the elevators of the globe? Shoemaker further says that the tongue or slip of the superior rectus is perfectly inextensible if made of tendon, as was the intention, and that if made ten millimeters long, as Motais specified, it would reach into the muscle and be apt to part upon the slightest tension. Yet he thinks the possible effect to be derived from the operation is great, and when little or no effect is obtained he believes the cause of the failure lies in transplanting the slip among the fibers of the orbicularis, instead of securing it to the tarsus, and that this is particularly apt to occur when the stitch is tied on the skin, as the tendon is then drawn away from the tarsus. To be sure that the slip is attached to the tarsus he would suggest the open method, as follows: The first stage of the operation remains unchanged except that in passing the double-armed thread through the prepared tendon slip, pass the needles from above downward, placing the loop on the upper surface. Then make a horizontal incision through the skin of the lid and the orbicularis muscle down to the tarsus a little below its upper margin. Undermine the orbicularis fibres by pushing them upward or backward, exposing the tarsus to its upper margin. Buttonhole Muller's muscle and the conjunctiva and through this opening carry the sutures with the piece of tendon, and fasten the latter directly to the surface or edge of the tarsus precisely as we do the tendon to the sclera in an ordinary advancement. Having dipped each needle into the tarsus and brought tarsus and tendon slip into direct contact, restore the orbicularis fibres, carry