FOREIGN BODIES. 599 sciously carrying around foreign bodies in their orbits that they don't know it. When they have trouble from this source there is time enough to do something. Sooner or later, however, most of these orbital foreign bodies are serious enough in their effects, causing not only ocular paralysis and blindness from injury to the orbital nerves, but septic cellulitis, osteoperiostitis of the walls, and even meningitis and death. Primary involvement of the eyeball is relatively rare. Diagnosis.—In all the recent cases the foreign body in the orbit should be removed at once, if practicable. There may be the history, of a foreign body without the local evidences, or there may be the evidences without the history, or both history and evidences may be available. In the first instances the wound of entrance may have healed or it may be overlooked. It is surprising how large an object can pass through the lids or conjunctiva and, after a day or two, leave no apparent trace. Or, if a trace be found, how insignifi- cant it will seem. Owing to the position of the eye at the time of the penetration and the different position at the time of the examina- tion, although the injury may be fresh, it frequently happens that a probe cannot be made to follow the track. The probing must be carried out on thoroughly aseptic principles. The probe can usually find the foreign body after a surrounding abscess has broken through to the outside. Palpation is often useful, as, by judicious pressure at different points, the sence of touch can be made to extend a long way into the orbit. When it can be done, the end of the object which has been thrust into the orbit should be carefully examined for signs that any part has been separated from it. In children who have developed exophthalmos or other symptoms of orbital cellulitis, for lack of a diagnosis, look for foreign body as the cause. It is estimated that in 75% of the cases, the foreign body is situated beneath the upper inner angle of the orbit. If other means of diagnosis fail to locate the foreign body, or, after having been located by other means, then in order to get an idea of the form and size of the object, one should have recourse to the X-rays. The methods to be followed with them are precisely the same as those given for the localization of foreign bodies in the eye. Surgical Measures.—As before suggested, those that are not likely to give any trouble are best let alone, be they recent or old.