331 SYMBLEPHARON. the form of a flap with its pedicle inward. The flap or lid is then turned back over the nose, the bleeding is stopped, and the raw surface of the globe and orbital contents covered over with a Thiersch graft. The entire area is dusted over with iodoform powder and covered with a piece of tin-foil, or gutta-percha tissue, well smeared on both sides with vaselin. This covering must extend beyond the outer and under borders of the wound and be pushed snugly into the angle at the base of the flap. Above it must overlap the cornea. If the latter is transparent, gutta-percha tissue is chosen instead of foil. The graft is made to cover the lower half of the cornea also. Now another epidermis graft, correspondingly large, is laid on the tissue (or foil), epithelium downward, and the flap is turned back into place. Both lids are now covered with a piece of gutta tissue greased with vaselin, and, over all, the regulation cotton pad and roller bandage. The foil or tissue keeps the two grafts apart while they heal. As soon as they have become firmly adherent, with configuration like that of the flap, an incision is made along the margin of the posterior defect, that must run exactly as did the one by which the flap was originally outlined. In this way a cut is made that, by the contraction of the surrounding tissue, is seen slightly to gape. Then the whole convex edge of the flap and that part of the upper edge near the point, made by the first or horizontal cut, is freshened with the scissors and sutured to the surrounding skin. Thus is formed a deep cul-de-sac. A linear scar remains, of course, and the lower lid looks puffy, "but faults like these," says Czermak, "are not to be taken into account in such desperate cases." He considers the operation of special utility in making a new socket for holding a glass eye. But it is in the United States that the employment of epidermic grafts in this connection has been attended with the highest degree of definite success. Hotz1 advocated the use of Thiersch grafts to replace the destruction of conjunctiva in extensive symblepharon. Among the first signal triumphs in this country was one at the hands of C. H. May2 (in May, 1897) of New York. There was total symblepharon of both lids. A number of large epidermic grafts were used which were kept in place by a porcelain shell resembling 1 Annals of Oph., April, 1893. 2 Reported in the Archives of Oph., April, 1899.