ENUCLEATION—IMMEDIATE ACCIDENTS. 471 rent forceps, and as much cut off as is deemed sufficient. Indeed, when the enucleation is made because of a small tumor, and in- spection of the section of the opticus shows that it is normal, the forceps may be released without making the resection. Suturing the conjunctival opening accomplishes no special good. Healing is as safe and prompt and smooth without it. Granulation buttons seem to occur about as often with as without. On the contrary, it prolongs the operation, increases the number of instru- ments, becomes foul with the discharges, acts like a seton in the tissues, and in the end necessitates an operation for its removal. IMMEDIATE ACCIDENTS. i Perforating the Sclera.—This is most likely to occur in eyes of normal, subnormal, or increased tension by pulling up too strongly on a tendon while detaching it from its insertion, especially when the scissors are rather pointed or are made to hug the sclera too closely; and in eyes of reduced tension by attempting to sever the opticus flush with its entrance while making undue forward traction upon the globe. The most serious objections to this mishap are that it embarrasses the subsequent steps of the operation and that, in the event of the contents of the eye being septic, there is danger of infection of the tissues of the orbit. 2. Hemorrhage.—While in most instances t here is no trouble from this source in excising the bulbus, bleeding is sometimes copious from the very beginning and throughout the operation. That from the conjunctiva and Tenon's capsule can usually be controlled by the instillation of adrenal solution or by flooding the eye with hot sterile or sublimated water, though to apply the adrenal solution too long beforehand only tends to favor the flow of blood. It is, however, upon section of the optic nerve and surrounding vessels that the worst hemorrhages are to be apprehended. This is particularly true of subjects in whom there has been marked de- generation of the vascular system. One should, therefore, exercise great discrimination in making this section. First, take care not to pop the eye too much before cutting, thus putting the posterior ciliary arteries too greatly upon the stretch, so that after their division, their distal cut ends will retract behind the fibrous capsule