177 worth's advancement. made now to take this same horizontal course. Both needles are then passed through the tendon, from the scleral side, at a greater or lesser distance behind the forceps, according as much or little effect is needed. The assistant pulls the muscle forward the requi- site distance and the thread is drawn up and tied. That portion of the tendon contained in the bite of the forceps is cut off, the free end placed beneath the conjunctiva, and the wound in this membrane closed by a fine suture. The conjunctival thread is removed on the fourth day; that in the tendon on the eighth. With proper needles and deftness, a very solid support can be got for the suture in this anchorage, representing, as it does, three sides of a rectangle, and for the lower degrees of squint it must be an excellent procedure. For the higher de- grees, one would suppose it necessitates considerable resec- tion of tendon; ergo, shortening of the muscle. In this class belongs also the operation of Worth.1 This sur- geon proceeds as follows: A vertical incision about 1/2 in. long is made through conjunctiva and Tenon's capsule, its middle close to the corneal margin. These membranes are retracted to expose the tendon. If the angle of the squint is of high degree, the incision is made curved, with its convexity toward the cornea, in order to allow the membranes to retract more freely. Prince's advancement forceps is introduced, with the toothed blade lying on the con- junctiva, and thus closed. The tendon and its underlying attach- ments are divided with scissors close to the sclera. Two needles, each threaded with a double strand of tolerably thick thread that has been previously boiled to remove the extra coloring matter, then steeped in a sterilized mixture consisting of three parts of white beeswax and five parts of white vaselin, are employed. While an assistant holds up the tendon and superposed membranes, one of the needles is passed inward at A (Fig. 73), through conjunctiva, Fig. 73.—Worth's advancement operation. 1 "Squint," London, 1903.