" INDIAN " METHOD. 549 his other hand he lifts the upper eyelid forward with a large-sized strabismus hook (Fig. 244), in his first three fingers, as if he were lifting the contents of the orbit out of the socket, and not lifting it toward the brow, using the ring and little finger of the same hand to draw back the brow and orbicularis muscle. This does not imply any violence on the part of the assistant. "The operator now places the end of a large-sized ophthalmic spatula (Fig. 245 ), on the left side of the cornea over the junction of the middle and lower third of the lens. He places the end of a large-sized blunt-pointed strabismus hook over the corresponding position to the right of the spatula (Fig. 246). He makes steady pressure backward toward the optic nerve with this spatula, and he makes similar pressure with the strabismus hook except that in making pressure with his strabismus hook he draws it backward and forward across the cornea. The edge of the lens at the wound will be seen to tilt forward and the clear vitreous will be seen be- tween it and the scleral margin of the wound. As soon as this occurs, the pressure with the spatula should practically cease and the same stroking movement of the strabismus hook should be continued, its position not being altered on the cornea at first, but the direction of the pressure exerted through it should be altered gradually more and more in the direction of the wound until it finally folds the cornea beneath the lens; at this stage the lens is delivered. The iris should be replaced if prolapsed. The assistant should then let go the eyelid, and the patient's eye should be dressed up. "I may here state that my experience now extends to about 20,000 cataract extractions, about 17,000 of which have been in the capsule, and amongst the latter have been many immature cataracts, especially in recent years." Major Smith lays great stress on two points, viz., that the pressure be gradually applied, and that plenty of time be allowed in delivering the lens. If the first point is not observed the capsule is apt to burst, and neglect of the second is sure to result in loss-of vitreous or other complication. '"The pressure exerted is moderate, slow and continuous, gradually relaxing in amount, as the lens is seen to be well on its outward way. The process must be done slower, and with much more deliberation than in the capsule laceration