4 PARA-OPERATIVE TECHNIC. Fifteen would not be too long. The instruments are then lifted out drained, and laid on sterile towels on the trays of the serving tables. It would be well to have a small oven in which to dry them quickly just before using. The plan, so generally followed, of putting them fresh from the boiler into some liquid, there to remain till used, is not cons'stent with good surgery. It is not pleasant to either operator or operated to have water dropping into the eye from the instru- ments; besides, since the sterilization of the hands is only relative, infection could in this way, be carried from the fingers into the wounds. If promptly dried the moment they are removed from the sterilizer one need have no apprehension as to the points and edges of the finest knives. If left in the air, covered with moisture, oxidation becomes at once very active, and it is precisely the thin edges and sharp points that will suffer most. All sutures are boiled ready threaded in their needles. If to be treated with paraffin, or other waxy material, this is best put on afterward, as the consider- able handling necessitated by the threading is apt to contaminate the suture. By Strong Antiseptics.—This is the least satisfactory method, and must ever be one of expedition, not of choice. It consists in letting the instruments lie for 15 minutes or longer in a bath of one of several liquids. The commoner are 40% formalin, 95% phenol, 95% alcohol, and pure chloroform. They are then taken out and washed in sterile water. This is an uncertain process, for if there be the thinnest possible film of any fatty or albuminous substance on the instrument it acts as a barrier to disinfection. Moreover, all these fluids attack the steel with some degree of activity. This form of sterilization is made much surer by wiping the instruments repeatedly, and hard, with sterile, soft linen just before putting them into the bath. If done intelligently, this also enhances the polish and the keenness of the trenchant articles wiped. It is not a bad idea to have the cloth wet with the antiseptic. It was the practice of Agnew, of New York, to wipe his Graefe knife long and hard with soft linen, before the days of antisepsis, to render it cleaner, brighter and sharper. Preparation of the Patient.—This is divided into general and local. General preparation is of two kinds, physical and mental. General preparation may be begun at an indefinite time previous