PARA-OPERATIVE TECHNIC. 5° in mild cases is the physiologic salt. It is followed by little distur- bance when used alone, and is not so painful nor so apt to result in small round-cell infiltration of the conjunctiva as are the stronger salt solutions. None but chemically pure salt is admissible. They are specially useful in the treatment of the lingering forms of uveitis following certain extractions, and certain iridectomies for chronic irritative glaucoma, particularly those characterized by recrudescences. The subtenonian injection is, as its name implies, into Tenon's capsule. Another name is intracapsular injection. It is one of the sheet anchors in the treatment of severe septic infection threatening panophthalmitis. The eye is prepared and the lids held apart as for the subconjunctival injection. Cocain, however, often has little effect, owing to the hyperemia and inflammation that are apt to be present, so that it is advisable in cases of very sore eyes and demoralized patients to narcotize with nitrous oxid. The bottom of the external conjunctival cul-de-sac is seized with strong fixation forceps in such a way as to include a fold of the outer check 1 gament, the eye being meanwhile in adduction. This is drawn forward (upward, one might better say) and the needle passed backward, deep into Tenon's capsule, following the sheath of the external rectus. The regulation dose with us consists of 12 minims of i% salt solution in which are dissolved i/ioo gr. of mercuric cyanid and 1/25 gr. of dionin. A small dose of acoin or morphin is sometimes added to alleviate the suffering that is almost inevitable afterward. Dionin has come to be regarded as an almost necessary ingredient of the last two forms of tissue injec- tions. It adds greatly to the local disturbance which ensues. In fact, the reaction is often so great, and of such a character, as to be positively scarey, especially to a novice. Fortunately, the benefit is, as a rule, commensurate with the reaction, and the latter is, therefore, welcomed. A subsequent injection is not given until the visible results of the previous one have passed away, except in desperate cases. Between mildly reacting injections 2 days, and between the severer ones four to six days, is about the average time—but if speedy loss of the eye is threatened, they may be given daily. If the pain during the reactive stage be great, fomentations as hot as can be borne, are applied to the closed lid, and hot douches to the conjunctival sac. The therapeutic value of these subcon-