EXTRACTION OF CATARACT. 546 of extraction of the lens in its capsule, applicable to senile cataract in general—thus, once for all, doing away with two of the great evils—the residual cortex and the secondary cataract. After giving it a fair trial, meanwhile endeavoring to correct its faults, these illustrious surgeons relinquished it and fell in with reclination instead. After completing the corneal incision, Richter expressed the lens by steady and gentle squeezing of the globe. Beer, at a later date (1790), introduced a needle at the incision, transfixed the cataract, and by moving it about in various directions loosened the zonule, and then extracted by external pressure. They both operated downward, by large linear incision, and without iridectomy. The method found few imitators and soon fell into disrepute, until revived, in 1845, by Christisen. This operator made pressure upon the globe just before finishing the corneal section, to cause the lens to break its zonule and to present at the wound, completed the section, and expressed. From 1865 to 1889, the brothers Alexandre and Hermann Pagenstecher, of Wiesbaden, went extensively into the work and, by a long series of extractions, attempted to popularize it, while still making the Graefe modified linear incision. Alexandre Pagen- stecher added to it a broad iridectomy, then delivered the lens by means of his broad shallow spoon. Later they adopted the large corneal flap extraction, adhering still to the spoon delivery, but only for the more obstinate lenses that did not respond readily to pressure. The surviving brother, Hermann Pagenstecher, has relinquished the measure save for exceptional cases. As a result of the favorable reports of the operation by these very able surgeons, it was taken up by many others—in this country by Knapp and Roosa. The last-mentioned surgeon, in 1884, after a visit to Wiesbaden, made a number of intracapsular extractions, but soon became dis- couraged by the very high percentage of vitreous loss. He essayed the breaking of the zonule by pressing down upon the lens with the knife, just after making the counterpuncture, slightly turning the back of that instrument toward the anterior capsule the while. Still more recently (1895) the late Gradenigo, of Naples, under- took it. After making corneal section, he introduced a small and