SIMPLE PERIPHERAL CORNEAL FLAP EXTRACTION. important one, both for the patient's comfort and for the good of the eye. This first layer of cotton is so thin that when the air is squeegeed out by the fingers, which causes it to adhere evenly, the skin and lashes can be plainly seen through it. The direction of the cotton fibres should be vertical. The boric acid solution with which it is moistened is made from the impalpable powder and should be more than saturated; in other words, there should be an extra quantity of the powder in suspension so that the meshes of the cotton, upon drying, will be filled with it. Gauze or any woven material is not put next to the lids because the twisted threads are more or less hard and press into the delicate skin. Neither is sublimate solution used for moistening the cotton for the reason that it would be found irritating to the lids of many patients. Over the wet cotton, a thick, soft pad of dry cotton is carefully built up so as to give an equal pressure under the bandage at every point. The bandage of netting, wet with boric acid or sublimate solution, is then applied as per the method described elsewhere and fastened with ordinary pins. Thanks to an idea lately hit upon by Dr. Fullenwider,1 one of our internes at the Illinois Charitable Eye and Ear Infirmary, never is there any more slipping or displacement of the dressing nor even a chance for the patient to finger the eye beneath the cotton pad. As soon as the bandage is applied, a quantity of flexible collodion is painted on where the folds cross the forehead and cheek and a strip of gauze is laid on the nose and cheek, extending up onto the dressing and similarly smeared, to bar any meddling with the eye on the part of the patient's fingers. The collodion sets immediately, even on the wet netting, and holds beautifully. One of the stiff shields or masks may be tied on, such as Ring's, or the aluminum mould. The latter can be more conveniently and effectively sterilized. As the writer bandages only the one eye, save in exceptional cases, if the shield is for both eyes, a large hole is made in that part over the unoperated eye for the patient to see through. He is told to keep both eyes shut most of the time, only opening the free eye when it is absolutely necessary. With a few the emergency will often arise, but with the majority not at all. In case after case 1l have since learned that collodion was used in a similar way by De Wecker, of Paris, some years ago.