3I2 ECTROPION. ently inadequate, may serve for the complete reparation, provided, one takes care to remove all scar tissue from the place it is to occupy. This is not always feasible, especially when the cicatrix is very deep or adherent to bone. In such cases some operators (Wicher- kiewicz among them) advise secondary grafting, i.e., not applying the supplementary skin until the defect is well covered with granula- tions. Removal of scar tissue from the defect is more urgent in graft methods than in those with sliding or pediceled flaps. The size of the graft is limited only by that of the bared space it is to occupy. In fact, a single piece, sufficiently large, is preferable to two or more smaller ones. De Wecker1 with the idea of better insuring the survival of the transported integument, tried cutting it into squares whose sides measured from one-half to one centimeter, which were placed on in the form of a mosaic; but it was found that the small fragments did not "take" more readily than larger ones, and, moreover, shrinkage and scarring were greater. Preparation of the Dermic Graft.—The lid defect is put in readiness the same as for a flap, save that in case of the graft the primary effect must be yet more extreme. A certain area of the delicate, hairless skin at the inner side of the upper arm or of the leg or thigh is washed with green soap and boiled water and thoroughly rinsed with boric acid or salt solution. The skin over the inner border of the left biceps (of right-handed patients) is probably the most suitable, all things considered; yet in the case of a feminine subject likely to take pride in bare arms, the thigh would be a better location for the scar. The graft is outlined with the aid of the pattern as per the instructions for the flap, except that the ratio of its size to that of the defect should be about four- fold, instead of double, and, there being no pedicle, of course the pattern is completely surrounded by the incision. The usual shape of the section of skin is that of an ellipse, or oval, and as it is impor- tant that the long axis of the graft coincide with that of the defect. Orientation is facilitated by first dissecting up the extremities of the oval and putting a fine suture through each from the epithelial side. If this is not done the primary shrinkage is so great the moment the piece is excised that it is then difficult to place it properly. As soon as one end is loosened enough, the cottecl or gloved fingers are 1 Annal. d'oculist., 1872, p. 62.