PARA-OPERATIVE TECHNIC. 32 not only continue to act as foreign bodies but, worse yet, they' together with their canals, form most alluring open roads for the entrance and growth of bacteria. Ordinary cutaneous and con- junctival sutures ought not to remain longer than 48 hours. A few special ones, such as advancement and ptosis sutures, would better be left longer—from 4 to 8 days. If the sutures are outside of the conjunctival sac they are first softened and cleansed with a moderately strong, warm, antiseptic solution, and wiped fairly dry. The most suitable instruments for the purpose, to my mind, are a pair of small, but stiff, dressing-forceps and a pair of small, blunt- pointed scissors, curved on the flat—Stevens' strabismus scissors, for example. Toothed forceps do not seize the thread readily. It is indispensable that the scissors cut well at the very extremity of the blades. It is best to have the patient prone upon the table, though he may sit upright. In either case the head would better be steadied by an assistant. The same helper may also hold the lids apart when the sutures are inside the palpebral fissure. But, in the latter case, unless one is pretty sure of his patient, and his assistant, it were better to use a blepharostat at once, the eye having, of course, been cocainized. The operator steadies the hands on some contiguous part, and watches closely the tendency of the operated, so as to be in the closest touch in order to anticipate moves or to move with him, thus avoiding sudden yanks upon the thread. In taking out cutaneous sutures an end of thread is grasped with the forceps and so pulled upon as to draw the suture well out of its canal on that side; it is then cut close up, the scissors being held with the convexity of the blades upward. In this manner one obviates pulling a soiled portion of thread—a part that has lain on the outside of the skin—through the entire stitch canal, to possibly infect it. A wet cotton sponge is held, or laid, con- veniently near, on which to wipe forceps or scissors. There is usually slight bleeding which may require sponging. The stitches all removed, the parts are again bathed with the antiseptic and sponged. Sponges.—The natural sponge, as a part of the surgeon's armentarium, is a thing of the past, having been, quite properly, superseded by the artificial kinds. They are made chiefly of cotton or gauze—preferably the former. Indeed, gauze sponges are