OPERATIONS UPON THE EXTRINSIC MUSCLES. 194 tendon of the rectus muscle without at the same time interfering with its actual insertion into the sclerotic coat of the eyeball. In this way he hoped that the dosage of tenotomy might be rendered more or less certain instead of being, as in the old operation, an al- most unknown factor. He described the method of operating and exhibited several patients upon whom the operation had been per- formed, at the Ophthalmological Society of the United Kingdom in 1902. Briefly, the steps of the operation are as follows: A vertical or curvilinear incision is made with scissors over the insertion of the internal rectus muscle and the latter is exposed as fully as might be and carefully separated from the overlying conjunctiva by a few snips of the scissors. After a small squint-hook has been passed beneath the tendon a fine, well-boiled, silk suture is inserted through the lower border of the tendon close to the sclera. The lengthening of the tendon might be effected in several ways, of which the two most practical alone need be described: 1. (Fig. 81.) A long ob- lique incision is made with scissors, commencing at the lower border, near the scleral insertion, and terminating at the upper border of the muscle some distance from its tendinous attachment to the eyeball. The two ends of the tendon are then united by a couple of points of interrupted suture. 2. (Fig. 82.) The lower half of the tendon is cut through some little distance from the scleral insertion and the incision is carried along the center of the tendon, midway between its upper and lower border, finally to be brought out at a right angle to its former course. The free ends left by this step-like incision are united by sutures. The lengthening of the tendon as carried out by either of the foregoing methods should be directly proportionate to the linear measurement of the squint; in other words, in a strabis- mus of five millimeters an attempt to lengthen the tendon by just Fig. 81. Fig. 82.