43 CAUSTICS. Caustics.—The peculiar chemical energy of these substances, when brought in contact with living tissues, makes them at once either most serviceable or most pernicious—all depends upon the conditions and manner of contact. Among the more common caustics used in ophthalmic practice are alum, sulphate of copper, nitrate of silver and carbolic and chromic acids. They are em- ployed pure or in mitigated substance, or in aqueous solution Mitigation and solution both mean simply dilution to lessen the severity of the agent. The first is accomplished by mixing with the caustic an inert powder, usually nitrate of potash or borate of soda; the second by the strength or percentage of the solution. The pure, the mixed, and the mitigated substances are all to be had at the pharmacists in sticks, or crayons, ready pointed, fast in holders and with cap to cover. If the crayon needs sharpening this is best done by rubbing it on fine sand-paper, care being taken to keep down the dust; that is, the rubbing should not be done in a draught, and the sand-paper should not be flirted about. Whether applied pure, mitigated or dissolved, the touch to any part of the eye, particularly of the more active caustics, should be by a fine point. For the solutions, the cotton brush on the applicator is used. The eye is bathed and sponged, the part to be touched is wiped dry with a bit of gauze, then the caustic is applied. As the object is to affect only the diseased area the caustic must be scrupulously kept from spreading to the healthy tissues. If done with the crayon, there will be little tendency to spread so long as no moisture comes in contact with the spot treated. Hence, in touch- ing any part within the palpebral fissure, it is necessary to keep the tears all away by means of the little, spindle-shaped cotton sponge. In order to strictly localize the application when in solution and with the brush, it is essential that there be no super- fluous fluid in the brush. That is, there should not be so much that when the contact is made a drop will be given off, to run down over the healthy surfaces and injure them. The tip of the brush is first touched to a sponge. Here, too, the tears must be kept away, just as in using the crayon. The application having been deemed sufficient, if within the conjunctival sac, the action of the caustic is always nullified at once by plentiful douching either with warm solution of boric acid or of something that will neutralize chemically,