6io OPERATIONS UPON THE ORBIT. with fair progress. These precautions tend to prevent the breaking out of a hole at the base of the exostosis. The abscission completed, the periosteum is carefully arranged over the site, stitched, if necessary, with catgut, and the openings in fascia and skin closed as usual. INCISIONS OF THE ORBIT. These are of two kinds, evacuant and diagnostic. They are both made with the patient in narcosis if there is no reason to the contrary. Evacuant incisions, as the name indicates, are made with the object of draining the tissues of serous infiltration, extravasation of blood or of pus. They are most frequently called for in abscesses of the orbit, and in the more acute stages of cellulitis; in the latter not only for drainage, but also for their relaxing effect upon the tense, densely infiltrated tissues. If relief is not prompt in these cases, serious complications arise from the pressure, such as necrosis of the retinal elements, necrosis of the cornea and lids, etc. As soon as the swelling threatens injury, therefore, free incisions are to be made in that part of the orbit which is most involved, regardless of the formation of pus, and sufficiently deep for drainage, even if they penetrate almost to the apex. The manner of making them is by puncture, or thrust; but, unless the knife is fairly broad, it does not suffice to draw it straight out as it went in, but a little sawing motion is needed, or the knife is tilted forward in withdrawing, to extend the cut slightly. The most suitable instrument is a long, slender bistoury, either straight or slightly curved, or a full-sized Beer's knife. Both point and edge must be of irreproachable keenness. The incision can be started from the conjunctival sac for the shallower parts of the orbit, but for the deeper, they should start in the skin somewhere within the zone bounded on the inside by the cone of recti muscles, and on the outer side by the rim of the orbit. The safest places for the profounder incisions are just beneath the middle third of the eyebrow and any point below, from that level with the outer canthus to that perpendicular to the wing of the nose. The knife should be held with its flat toward the globe, and made rather to hug the bony wall of the hollow cone of the orbit than to encroach too much upon the soft parts; and, it goes without saying,