OPERATIONS UPON THE EXTRINSIC MUSCLES. 196 the threads are tied the eyeball should be strongly abducted so as to leave a distinct interval before inserting the silk threads of the artifi- cial tendon." Landolt1 has recently proposed a method of muscle elongation. He designed it for those inveterate cases of convergent squint in which there is marked contraction of the internal rectus, accom- panied by changes in its structure and the loss of elasticity. The tendon is laid bare by a horizontal incision over the center, and stretched flat upon a strabismus hook. While an assistant rotates the globe outward the rectangle represented by the tendon is bisected diagonally. The apex of one of the right-angle triangles thus formed is united by suturing to that of the other. Another way mentioned is to divide the tendon by a series of cuts in the form of steps, and joining the last step on one side to the corresponding one on the other. By a curious coincidence, Landolt has hit upon precisely the same idea as did Stephenson. In this connection the following question suggests itself, viz., may not the result of such operations, in cases where the eyes are capable of binocular single vision, be a serious disturbance of the muscle balance, owing to the peculiar manner in which the ends of tendon are united ? Verhoeff2 has suggested a form of tendon lengthening which is is deflected, buttonholing it in the vertical sense and, in addition, making a series of nicks in its edges. It is through scratching out of the tendon consequent upon the opening of these cuts that the effect is obtained. Figs. 83 and 84 show the cuts closed and open. This is nothing else than a form of partial tenotomy, and Haab 3 significantly observes, in referring to the measure, " Ob diese Oper- ation bleibendere Resultate erzielt als die partiellen Tenotomien, welche fruher schon von verschiedenen Autoren vorgeschlagen und ausgefithrt wurden, muss die Erfahrung lehren." While, as before stated, some degree of vertical deviation is common in connection with horizontal squint, operations upon 1 Archiv. d'Ophtal., January, 1905. 2Mbl. F. A., Band xli, 1903. 3" Augen-operationslehre," p. 278,1894. Fig. 83. Fig. 84 presumed to find its application only in the lowest degrees of strabismus. It consists in laying bare the tendon of the muscle toward which the globe