ACCI DKNTS IN 1 Rl DKCTOM Y. 455 7. Wounding of the anterior capsule is a grave casually w hen the lens is transparent and in elderly individuals with opaque lenses and glaucoma, since it leads in many cases to cataract or to forced extraction to prevent loss of the eye. It is serious in any case. It is due to some fault, preventable or otherwise, in the management of the knife, the forceps, or the spatula. It is the extremity of each of these instruments that it behooves one to watch. The use of forceps with sharp teeth projecting beyond the posterior edge of the jaws is most hazardous. The spatula should be well curved and of nicely rounded end. 8. Rupture of the Zonule.—Aside from the too sudden evacua- tion of the aqueous, which lias already (third) been mentioned as a cause of the accident, it may also result from too great pressure upon the forceps in grasping the iris, from sudden movement of the eye while handling either forceps or spatula, and from external pressure by patient or operator. It is highly unfortunate, whatever the kind of iridectomy. In the preparatory it complicates the ex- traction and often induces loss of vitreous; in the optic and the therapeutic it may give rise to escape of vitreous, to cataract, to secondary glaucoma, or to a worse form of glaucoma on top of one already bad enough. In other words, malignant glaucoma may follow an iridectomy for a milder form of the disease if, through sub- luxation of the crystalline, the periphery of that body becomes jammed in between the ciliary processes and the canal of Schlemm. Methods have been devised whereby to replace lenses thus dis- located, as, for example, that of De Wecker,1 which consists in making, after firm union of the corneal wound, his anterior sclerot- omy on the side opposite that of the coloboma, then, while the cor- nea is still transfixed by the knife, essaying, by means of pressure of the thumb through the intervening lid, to force the lens back into position. Such procedures are mostlv unsatisfactory. It were better one trusted to immediate or subsequent extraction did the exigencies of the case seem to demand it. Should the lens become actually engaged in the corneal wound, be it cataractous or not, it should be extracted at once. q. Bursting of the hyaloid usually attends any considerable rupture of the zone of Zinn and from the same causes. When it 1 LaChirur^ie oculaire, p. 1 55.