OPERATIONS UPON THE GLOBE. 1 Wiener kl. Woch., Apr., 1903. outward is that resorted to by L. Muller.1 The patient was narcotized. Temporary resection of the outer wall of the orbit by Kronlein's method. Excision of the orbital periosteum, exposure of the external rectus, and the inferior oblique, and their severance from the globe. Excision of a strip of sclera 10 mm. wide by 20 mm. long, extending from 2 mm. behind the attachment of the externus to the posterior pole. Five silk sutures inserted, and all without the slighest injury to the choroid. The choroid was punctured and the threads tied. When the subretinal fluid ran out. The retina immediately became reattached, the field of vision became normal except for a small central scotoma, and the sight, which had been reduced to counting fingers in lower field, rose to fingers at 3 meters. Galvano-puncture has been tried by De Wecker and others, both for detachment of the retina and for circumscribed staphylomas of the sclera, but the results have not been encouraging. SUTURING SCLERAL WOUNDS. Small wounds, and even pretty extensive ones that are meridional, may often be left without sutures, simply cleansed, extruding vitreous snipped off, and the conjunctiva stitched over them. But if the scleral wound inclines to gape, it should be sutured. If the scleral and the conjunctival wounds correspond, the same threads may include both; if they do not, it is best to close the scleral opening with absorbable sutures and the conjunctival with silk. Indeed, it is usually deemed best to see to it that the two openings do not corre- spond, even if a piece of the conjunctiva constituting one lip of the wound must be excised to avoid coincidence. The wound is not only freed from dirt and vitreous, but from shreds of choroid and retina, should these be present. Double-armed, interrupted sutures are preferable, so that the needle can be introduced from within on both sides. The thread should, if possible, be made to include only the outer layers of the sclera, and in no case should the uvea and retina be included either in the wound or in the sutures. The thread or gut should be very fine and the needles of exceptional sharpness.