KINDS OF IRIDECTOMY AND THEIR INDICATIONS. 429 2. Optic iridectomy, or coremorphosis, as we have just seen, is next, in point of age, to the preparatory variety. It is indicated in atresia iridis, or where the normal pupil is obscured by opacities of the cornea, as partial leucoma; or of the lens, as large pyramidal and zonular cataract; in occlusion of the pupil, in subluxation of the crystalline with great reduction of visual acuity—in short, when- ever it is possible by the excision of a portion of the iris to restore or to greatly improve the sight. The resulting coloboma should be small, to insure a clean image, and, when practicable, should not extend to the periphery, because of the imperfect refraction and senile changes that characterize this region. As to the position of the artificial pupil, when one has the option, it is customary to place it downward and inward. Really, provided it does not lie beneath the lid and is not too eccentric, the situation of the opening is, dioptrically considered, of little or no consequence. Indeed, as regards the lens, this is a matter to be decided solely by the site of the opacity, and, as concerns the cornea, by data obtained from careful study of the available parts of that membrane. To this end, it is of the utmost importance that not only the degree of transparency of the different areas be ascertained, by means of strong focal illumination and magnifying glasses, but that one takes into con- sideration their curvature, as revealed by such implements as Placido's disks, the ophthalmometer and the ophthalmoscope. Especial care should be given the opthalmoscopic examination, since transmitted light and a strong plus lens will reveal corneal areas practically opaque on account of diffraction, which could not be seen by other methods of examination. That portion of the cornea which is freest from opacities and irregular astigmatism should be chosen as the sight of the coloboma. These investigations are to be made, whenever possible, with full mydriasis, before subjecting the patient to the operation. In zonular cataract and in subluxation of the lens, one must be fairly sure that increased vision will ensue, for the best made optic iridectomy is apt to prove disap- pointing in these defects. A piece of card-board or other dia- phragm, stenopaically perforate, used in such a way as to cause a narrow pencil of light to pass through the different parts of the dilated pupil will, occasionally, solve the problem in question. In many instances, however, the area of clear cornea is so limited that the