328 OPERATIONS UPON THE CONJUNCTIVA. is marked off and by which also the piece is managed after de- tachment. If this is not done, it is next to impossible then to tell front from back. The lid to be repaired is pulled far away from the globe, the latter is rotated strongly upward (the operation being for a downward symblepharon), the borrowed piece, with or with out previous dipping in the warm solution, laid in right side out, the contained sutures fastened to the surrounding tissue, and as many others put in as are needed. To finish, loop threads are put down through the middle of the graft, brought out on the cheek and tied over cylinders of gauze to form the cul-de-sac. Some operators wait for these to cut out. It is a good plan to lay on a piece of sterile oil silk or similar stuff before inserting the loop threads and pull it, folded, down with the graft, as recommended by Thilliez.1 Or one could employ the paraffined lead plate, as detailed later. If a one-piece graft is not large enough, two may be joined together and handled as one, or one may be applied to the globe, the other to the lid and their lower edges stitched to the tissue at the bottom of the newly-made pocket. Where the rest of the bulbar conjunctiva is fairly normal, one may, as advised by de Wecker, combine the transplanting of Teale or Knapp (p. 324) with the mucous grafting. 2. Pedunculated skin flaps, under existing conditions, probably offer a greater measure of success than do mucous grafts, for the cure of total symblepharon, yet these, too, are far from reliable. A pioneer in their use for this purpose was Taylor.2 He took the flap from the lower lid, in a case of downward symblepharon, with its base toward the nose. After loosening it up, he cut a vertical slit through muscle fascia and conjunctiva, near the pedicle of the flap, pushed the latter through, twisted it 1800 on its long axis and stitched it to the inner side of the lid with its epidermis next to the globe. The outer defect was then closed by sutures. Chisolms made the same operation, except that the pedicle was left at the tem- poral side. Harlan* for a case of total lower symblepharon, formed a bridge flap (with relatively narrow pedicle at either end) on the cheek 1 Jour, des Sc. med. de Lille, 1898, p. 143. 2 Med. Times and Gaz., i, July, 1876, p. 4. 3 Virginia Med. Monthly, 1877, p. 180. 4 Trans. Am. Oph. Society, 1890.