CHAPTER IV. OPERATIONS UPON THE EXTRINSIC MUSCLES OF THE EYE. Strabismus.—This is a very old word, of Greek origin, whose more modern and preferable English synonyms are squint and heterotopia; and all three are terms that refer to an abnormal position of the globe whereby its visual axis fails to meet that of its fellow exactly at the fixation point. Whatever the determining or "exciting" causes of squint—whether errors of refraction, ambly- opias, unawakened fusion centers, etc.—it is certain that faulty muscles are in most cases the predisposing—the real—cause. The vast majority of eyes remain free from strabismus, no matter what the state of the vision, the refraction, or other physical conditions. Of the squinting eyes, approximately only about one-third are amenable to treatment other than surgical. It is of the utmost importance, then, that one should study well each separate case, in order to determine the nature, the degree, and the contributing factors as regards both the eyes and the possessor of them; and that surgical methods should not be resorted to saving when reason- able trial of all other appropriate means has failed to remedy the defect. Then only is an operation indicated. Kinds of Squint.—The deviation of the eye is spoken of as lateral, or horizontal, when it turns out or in; as vertical, when up or down, and as oblique when it is a combination of the two. When the eye turns inward, the squint is said to be convergent (esotropia); when outward, divergent (exotropia); when upward, sursumvergent (hypertropia), and when downward, deorsumvergent. In pure horizontal deviation inward the eyes are in the position of positive convergence, because the lines of fixation intersect in front of the eyes; and in horizontal deviation outward, they are in that of negative convergence, because the lines of fixation, if prolonged backward, would meet behind the eyes. At a matter of fact, however, in most instances the squint is a mixture of the lateral and the vertical varieties. iS8