ECTROPION AND BLEPHAROPLASTY. lower lid and to depress it for the upper, contributes to its success. Moreover, in male subjects, it is difficult to fashion a flap from the cheek without including the hair follicles of the beard, and the presence of hairs in the flap—no matter how few or small they may be—is objectionable. Yet we have seen patients exhibited with great gusto who had been furnished with a new set of eyelashes borrowed from the supercilia. For circumscribed defects situated more to- ward the nasal side of the lids, the glabellar and nasomaxillary regions offer the more fitting skin for pedunculated flaps; and whether or not they are taken from the former for the lower lirl and from the latter for the upper, as advised by many surgeons, the pedicle at least should be slightly higher than the canthus when the lesion is of the lower lid, and vice versa. If only scar tissue is available for the flap, it also may be utilized, provided it is superficial, movable, and not too greatly contracted. In the matter of choosing a flap, it is often not so much a question as to what one would like to have, as what one can get. In cutting the subsidiary integument, if it lies close to the inner canthus, the lacrimal canal is to be respected, and if in the malar or infra- zygomatic region, the duct of the parotid gland is to be avoided. As has been intimated already, the pedicle should be situated as near as practicable to the primary defect, and the body of the sec- ondary defect more remote. If a desirable skin area can be reached by moderate elongation of the pedicle, it may be so extended, but a roadway or bed should be opened through the intervening bridge of skin where to inlay this long neck, rather than have it lie on top. It is hardly proper to refer to the pedicle as a neck, seeing that such a term implies a considerable narrowing. It were better, perhaps, to call it the base of the flap, since to be adequate for the nourishment of the rest of the peninsula, this portion must be little, if any, nar- rower. Slender pedicles and long-drawn-out points to flaps are both serious faults, as they favor gangrene. For the pedicle to be skimp, as to length, is equally grave. This means undue stretching and constriction. It would far better be too long than too short, especially as more or less swelling is to be expected after the opera- tion. It is well to remember that the greater the degree of torsion of the base required to put the flap in place, the greater the amount of shortening, and allowance must be made accordingly. Indeed, it