EXENTERATION OF THE ORBIT. 613 flexible spatula or elevator is inserted, and the loosening thus begun is carried back to the apex, first at the outer side, then above, and lastly, at the nasal side. Whenever the spatula encounters firm resistance at any spot, the blunt-pointed, curved scissors are brought to its aid. This will occur, for example, at the origin of the inferior oblique, at the pulley of the superior oblique, and at the internal check ligament. The membrane strips off so easily, that after it is well started, the finger can help. In working with the spatula where the bone is very thin, as over the zygomatic fossa, without and over the delicate lacrimal bone opposite, every precaution must be taken to avoid puncturing. The same with regard to the two large fissures. When the periosteum is thoroughly loosened at all points save at the sphenoid fissure and the optic foramen, the nerves and vessels passing through those openings, together with the muscle origins, constitute the remaining pedicle of the orbital contents. The fourth step is the cutting of this pedicle. A pair of strong blunted scissors is introduced at the upper, inner angle and pushed back, their extremities hugging the bone, to find and snip the opticus as it emerges from its foramen, and the upper and inner muscle attachments. The scissors blades must not be shoved far astride the nerve, or else the ophthalmic artery, lying just to its outer side, will be wounded. If this happens there will be a gush of scarlet blood. It were better to take more than one snip. Now the cone of tissue is held toward the nasal side, while a pair of strongly curved Cooper scissors are inserted at the supero-temporal roof and pushed straight back, their convexity corresponding to the concavity of the roof, to find and cut the structures that pass through the sphenoidal fissure and the outer and lower muscle attachments. There should be no traction on the contents while these cuts are being made. It were possible thereby to cause intracranial hemorrhage. The combination scissors and vessel-clamp of Warlomont or Bettmann have been recommended for these acts. The greatest objection to them is their cumbersomeness. The exenteration is complete. The bleeding will be profuse. Copious douching of the cavity with hot sublimate solution, 1-2000, is now in order, both for its styptic and its antiseptic properties. There need be no fear of applying this freely. After this, a wad cf antiseptic gauze that has a ligature put through it (after Czermak) is pressed back into the