64 INSTRUMENTS AND THEIR MANAGEMENT. Lacrimal Knife.—Owing to the few occasions, these latter days, for Bowman's operation, a single representative of this class is enough; and my choice would be for that of Agnew. The blade, including the probe, is i 1/2 centimeters, of which the probe and its neck comprise a trifle more than one mm. The back has a slight convexity, and the edge a more decided one. The greatest width is at the middle, where it measures 2 mm., and it is connected with the handle by a round, malleable iron shank, about 3 1/2 centi- meters long. The object and advantages of this last feature, in adapting the knife to the overhanging brow and permitting of its entrance into the nasal duct, are too well known to dwell upon. The Weber knife is lacking here, and the neck of its probe, being too long and curved, renders it liable to snap off in the tissues. Graefe Knives.—One could manage to get on with three cataract knives, provided he were within convenient distance of a reputable instrument maker or repair shop, but from four to six would not be considered an excessive number. Graefe knives, in common with all keratomes, are the most exacting of all the ocular instruments as to their keeping. This is especially true of the point. No matter how faultless the edge, if the point is not perfect the instru- ment, for the moment, is worthless. So exceedingly delicate is it that the merest touch against the box in which it is kept, or against the tray or dish in which it is cleansed, or against the towel in wiping it, and it is out of service. For these reasons it is advisable to have a reserve supply, and, in preparing for an extraction or iridectomy, to make ready two such knives lest one should come to grief. The blade of the most approved model is 30 to 32 mm. long, full, strong, 2 mm. wide at its base, where it joins the shank; at this point also it is full 1/2 mm. thick, and from here both width and thickness decrease by insensible degrees toward the extremity, till, within 4 or 5 mm. of it the width is reduced to less than 1 1 / 2 mm. From here the lines converge, in a slight curve, to form the point. An error, often found in connection with the Graefe knife, is that the more pronounced narrowing of the blade begins too far back, and that, instead of the opposite sides approaching in the correct outward sweep, they do so in straight lines. This makes a long, needle-like point, that is extremely frail and difficult to keep in order. On the other hand, too abrupt a termination, while not so