ECTROPION AND BLEPHAROPLASTY. 313 » substituted for the forceps to hold the piece, and the entire dis- section is completed with the blunt scissors, exercising care to avoid injury to the basilic vein. Should the skin on the inner aspect of the thigh, just above the knee, be chosen, which is probably the next most fitting, cutting into the long saphenous vein is to be guarded against. These two large veins can be seen through the skin, as they lie just beneath the superficial fascia. Unlike the flap, the graft after having been severed is freed from all its adherent fat. It is then dipped in boric or salt solution or not as the judgment of the operator shall decide, laid on, according to its dimensions, and carefully spread out. The contained sutures are inserted at the corresponding ends of the defect and tied. Additional sutures are put in only where they would seem to be absolutely necessary. If, as often happens, the graft adjusts itself nicely to its new location, these are best omitted. The dressing and after-treatment are identical with that described for pedunculated flaps. Until the lid operation is finished and the bandage is applied, a pad of cotton wet with sublimate solution, one to three thousand, is kept on the wound in the arm. Since before Urban1 signaled their abandonment in this particular, the writer has never allowed mercuric solutions to come in contact with the graft nor with the operated lid, because of their coagulating effect and the damage they inflict upon the epidermis. The last attention having been bestowed upon the eye, the edges of the opening in the arm are widely undermined and approximated by interrupted sutures. Should this require undue tension upon the skin, it is relieved, where greatest, by bracket incisions (Fig. 189), or, preferably, the opposite edges of skin are approached only so nearly as practicable, one to the other, and the gap afterward filled with a Thiersch graft. If bracket incisions are made, the spaces between their lips may be similarly covered. Iodoform powder is dusted on, iodoform gauze laid on, then a pad of cotton, and over all a muslin or wet netting bandage. Every precaution should be taken to prevent disturbance of both the eye and the arm dressings. A good way is to fix the bandages in place with flexible collodion, as described 1 Deutsche Zeit. f. Chir., 1892.