20 PARA-OPERATIVE TECHNIC. Fig. 9). The strip is carried on around, inclining downward at the left side of the head, but always keeping well above the left eye. It passes just above the left ear, then across the base of the occiput, then close up beneath the right ear, thence diagonally upward over the center of the pad of cotton, thence almost vertically across the forehead, as if it were going over the top of the head. Now it is reversed, carried downward and backward around again, passed again over the pad of cotton, this time with its edge against the nose—up and reversed as before, carried a third time around and up. This, the last turn that lies on the cotton pad, is carried more toward the right temple, so that now the entire pad is covered. It is again taken upward and reversed, but, instead of passing downward at the back, what remains of the bandage is passed straight around the head, as was the first turn. The end is fixed with two ordinary pins—not with safety pins. The edge of bandage, and frazzles of cotton at the side of the nose are tucked under with closed scissors blades. The bandage is not carried low enough at the back to rest upon the neck, for the movements of the head would stretch and loosen it. If, after the bandage dries, the patient complains of its cutting his ear, a drop of vaselin just at the spot will soften the netting there and give relief. It should not be nicked with knife or scissors. The Double or Binocular Roller.—(Fig. 10.) The pad is put on each eye and a wad of cotton laid between them at the base of the nose. The bandage is started in the same manner as the single, but after the first turn around the head the strip is carried downward over the center of the pad covering the left eye (the right being the operated eye). It passes thence round the base of the occiput—under the right ear, upward over the right pad—again round the occipital prominence, again downward over the left pad, and so on. It will be seen that this is a regular figure-of-8 bandage. After three turns over each pad the remainder is carried straight around the head, to fix the whole, and pinned. Now, if a dab of flexible collodion be put on the thin places in the bandage here and there about the forehead and cheek the most restless patient cannot disturb it under 48 hours. This applies to the single or the double bandage or the tie. For extractions, and other particular cases, in addition to the dabs of collodion, it is my custom to paste on a