363 OPERATIVE M I AM'KKS. considerations actuated Bendedict, in 1822, to remove an occasional fold from the cul-de-sac, and Galezowski, in 1874, to excise the three upper retro-tarsal folds bodily. Galezowski's experiences with the measure must have proven most satisfactory, for he has been in- dustriously at it ever since. Who has not seen the cavalier manner in w hich lie went about it! Seeing that the tarsus was also often the seat of the trachomatous affection and its complications, Heisrath, of Konigsberg, a pupil of Jackson, in 1882, proposed, in fit cases, adding to the exsection of the fornix that of the diseased portion of the adjoining tarsus. Heisrath's idea was taken up and elaborated by Vossius and by Kuhnt. The last-mentioned has been especially instrumental in furnishing details as to the indications and in working out an ap- proved technic. So closely identified is the School of Konigsberg, i.e., now, Professor Kuhnt, with everything pertaining to trachoma and its handling that it (or he) is rather looked to as the fountain- head of such lore. It is to this source, therefore, that the author is indebted for most of what follows on this subject. In this connection there are three kinds of excision, to wit: 1. Simple. 2. Isolated. 3. Extirpation. 1. Simple excision means the removal of a strip of the infiltrated conjunctiva, its dimensions being regulated by the requirements present. Kuhnt restricts its application almost exclusively to the lower fornix. Its indications are: First.—When the other methods have failed or when there are recidivations. Second.—W7hen the tarsus or the bulbar conjunctiva are be- coming involved. Third.—When there are corneal complications. Fourth.—When the patient comes from a trachomatous district and will go back to it. The operation is contraindicated when the conjunctiva is at all scant. Technic of Simple Excision of the Lower Lid.—A few minims of a 10% cocain solution are dropped into the conjunctival sac, and a few drops of a 6% solution of 'he same are injected into the folds