EXTRACTION OF CATARACT. 534 upon the frequency of secondary cataract. Unquestionably, that manner of capsulotomy which gives the greatest number of stray fragments or shreds would be the kind most often to exert an evil influence upon the wound healing, but over its power to affect the density of the membranous remains or secondary cataract one. has but little control. The author believes, with Panas, that it is not so much the method pursued in the cystotomy, as the amount of abandoned lens remains that predisposes, or not, to the formation of secondary cataract. A number of operators, first and last, have followed the example of the Barons de Wenzel (father and son), who in the latter part of the 18th century (about 1786), began the practice of making the capsulotomy with the point of the corneal knife or keratome— chemin faisant, as they expressed it; i.e., after making the puncture, the point of the knife is advanced to the pupil, depressed till in con- tact with the capsule, a certain movement is made to incise the capsule, and, following this, the counterpuncture is made, and the section completed in the ordinary way. Among those who have of late years revived this old method have been Gayet, of Lyons, and Galezowski and Trousseau, of Paris. The last operator goes so far as to employ no other instrument in the entire operation of simple extraction save the Graefe knife. The guiding principle in the making of the capsulotomy and corneal section simultaneously is the lessening of the hazards of the operation by the insertion of the fewest instruments possible. Now however commendable this may be and clever as is the feat, it is not good surgery. Each of the operative steps is of too great importance to be accomplished by a bungling compromise which is disparaging to both. For, as to the capsulotomy, it is apt to be insufficient and wrongly placed If there is an opaque liquid (Morgagnian) within the capsule, this escapes, thus obscuring the field and embarrassing the operator; and if the capsule is resisting, there is greater risk of rupturing the zonule. It also inclines to jaggedness of the corneal incision and premature escape of the aqueous, all of which but tends to vitiate the result. Daviel practised plucking out, or arrachement, of the anterior capsule when it was th ckened, etc. De Wecker, of Paris, thought to advance the status of cataract extraction, especially in regard to