OPERATIONS UPON THE EXTRINSIC MUSCLES. 182 should remain tightly drawn down; to insure this, and at the same time obviate any tearing up of the track of the suture where it lies deeply imbedded under the conjunctiva, take hold of the upper end of thread with the dressing forceps, and the lower one with the fingers, just where it emerges above and below the cornea, and pull, not back in the direction of the advancing muscle, but away from it (in Fig. 75, toward the nose). This insures drawing the muscle forward in a straight line. Having in this way drawn the muscle well forward, the assistant "takes up the slack" of the end of the thread which passes beneath the loop, gives it to the operator, who lets go with his dressing forceps, and ties the suture. The tension being equal on all the thread-bearings, the advancing tendon is drawn neither up nor down, but comes forward in a straight horizontal line. One may leave the suture tied in a long bow-knot, after Prince, the shorter end of the thread being always the one which controls the loop, so that after the lapse of twenty- four hours, if, for any reason, there is occasion for modifying the effect upon the eye, the last part of the knot may be untied, and the suture either tightened or slackened, as desired; and in any but dispensary practice this will do excellently. On first removing the bandage, whether one wishes to shift the suture or not, the long ends and loop of thread, which have been till now fixed by the dressing just outside the nearest canthus, are, before rebandaging, cut off close to the knot. The suture is allowed to remain in the eye from six to nine days—the dressing being renewed during the time at intervals of about forty-eight hours. Both eyes should be bandaged, and absolute rest in bed for at least forty-eight hours must be insisted upon. I have abundantly proven that the pull of the suture in the tendon is not only to move and hold the muscle forward, but also to keep the tendon spread out flat. This is easily demonstrated by a model —even with the flimsiest material to represent the tendon. Some few of my confreres, on reading as to the technic of the advancement operation herein detailed, have conceived a notion that it is complicated and difficult. This impression has doubtless arisen from my having dwelt at such length upon the minutias of the operation, which alone insure success. As a matter of fact, it is one of the simplest of procedures. It is, moreover, one of the