4 Munch, med. Woch., 1887, Nr. 1, u. 2. ECTROPION AND B L E P H A ROPL A STY. tissue in the preparation of the defect to be repaired, and waited for the surface to granulate before applying the graft. The latter was held in place by strips of diachylon plaster. This species of cutaneous graft was first employed in blepharoplasty by Lavvson.1 In preparing it, the skin may be separated from its original location, as directed for the Wolfe graft, and then pared clown very closely with a razor, cutting well below the epidermis. Thiersch2 adopted the method of Oilier, but with certain modifications, the most important among which was that he declined to implant the graft upon a granulating surface {secondary grafting), placing it rather upon a freshly prepared raw one (primary grafting). If granula- tions were already present, they were shaved off to conform to the principle in view. This, according to the same authors is that granulations make an unfavorable base for the transplanted integu- ment, for the reason that they of themselves produce a layer of scar tissue. He also made the pieces thinner than did Oilier. Eversbusch* advised that this form of graft be cut as thin as possible—translucent in fact—the blade of the knife or razor show- ing through during the section. This constitutes the true epidermic graft, known in this country under the name of Thiersch and in Europe under that of Thiersch-Eversbusch. While it is less effective, owing to its lack of body, for the restoration of the lid than the Wolfe graft, it has the advantage in most instances of shrinking less. In point of ability to survive, the two varieties would seem to be about on a par. Whether concerned immediately in the lid operation or not, the transplanting of epidermis will often be found a valuable adjunct thereto, as, for example, to make a patch when, after a few rlays, a flap or dermic graft chances, through ulceration or other mishap, to have its epithelium destroyed or when an unavoidable gap remains in a secondary defect. The Thiersch method is as follows: the primary defect having been prepared as for the flap of the Wolfe operation (or if granula- tions are present, they are removed), the inner side of the upper arm or of the lower third of the thigh, is washed with soap and sterile 1 Lancet, Nov. iq, 1870. 2 Berlin, klin. Woch., 1874. 3 Arch. f. klin. Chir., Bd. xvii, 2, S. 318, ff.