OPERATIONS FOR SYNECHIA. 425 measure was resorted to only when the lens was cataractous. A little later, Beer did the same by means of a tiny sharp hook. The first to make the operation in cases where the lens retained its transparency was Streatfeild,1 of London, at whose hands the procedure attained a degree of popularity. He first made an incision with the keratome, then attacked the synechia with an instrument that he called a spatula, but that was, in reality, a tiny knife bearing at the extremity of the blade a blunt hook. Weber,2 of Darmstadt, also devised a method and a synechitome, the latter being a knife-hook with blunted point. The operation is not with- out danger to the lens; besides, the adhesions often refused to yield, or yielded only to recur. Moreover, iridectomy, it has been demon- strated, is a better remedy for the irititis, etc., that sometimes result from pronounced synechia posterior. A few slight, isolated attach- ments are usually harmless. For these reasons the operation has fallen into disuse. Anterior Synechia.—Here the involvement of the iris is not so much an adhesion to the cornea as it is an incarceration, the extent of which varies greatly—from a few fibres caught up by a linear or punctate scar, to the inclusion of the greater portion of the mem- brane in a leucoma (leucoma adherens). The surgical treatment applies more to the second category just mentioned, as, aside from a few special measures and instruments relative to the synechia itself, most of the operations are but phases of those already described in connection with the iris. When the synechia involves only the pupillary border, the freeing of the iris from the cornea is called sphincerolysis; when a more extensive area, iridolysis. Here follow a few of the methods of dealing with small synechias. Von Arlt,3 in cases of small, anterior synechia, advised passing a lance-keratome into the anterior chamber, advancing the point to the adhesion and trying to cut it by a rocking motion of the blade from side to side. Bowman first made a small incision through the cornea, then introduced a probe-pointed lacrimal knife to divide the synechia. Meyer* essayed to sever the attachment with a small, blunt-pointed sickle, passed into the chamber through an incision, 1 Oph. Hosp. Rep., 1857-1860. 2 A. f. O., 1860-1861. 3 Operationslehre, S. 341. 4 Handb. der Augenb., Berlin, 1883, S. 108.