35 DROPPERS. hand corner (Fig. 21a), and the shaft of the applicator is revolved with the other thumb and index away from the maker, at the same time the right thumb and hnger help the instrument to get hold of the extreme corner fibres of the cotton. As soon as these begin to wind on, the left thumb and index take a firmer hold on the cotton, to make the winding tight. All that remains is to continue turning the applicator till all the cotton is wound on, and the brush is made. If it seems too long or uneven, the fibres are pulled out till it assumes the proper dimensions. To make a swab or firm mop, one takes the same thin, square bit of cotton, but before starting to turn the applicator, which is laid on just as for the brush, the fibres are made to run in the vertical sense (Fig. 21 b). The winding is begun as before, but when it has got well under way, the fibres that would otherwise project beyond the end of the shaft, are turned back- ward by the left index, and the turning kept up until all the cotton is on and smoothed down into a good, firm, rounded mass. In both instances the cotton is wound on very tightly. In this way the implement will bear sterilization. No roughening is needed to keep the cotton from slipping off. If made properly, the cotton will only come off by unscrewing it, as it were, i.e., turning the shaft in the opposite sense, or toward one. In this way it may be stripped off at once, whereas if the shaft is roughened the cotton will not strip. The brush is employed when the remedy is to be painted or penciled on, the swab when it is to be rubbed on. The swab is also useful in putting ointment into the eye, as wrell as for rubbing it on. Droppers.—By the term eye-dropper is commonly understood the combination of small rubber bulb and glass tube with narrowed extremity. The word pipette is sometimes used as interchangeable. The last is literally "little pipe,1' and refers to the old medicine dropper, or drop-counter, which consists of a glass tube without the rubber bulb. The small end of the tube is immersed in the liquid and when enough has flowed in, the finger is clapped onto the larger end. The tube may then be lifted out and no liquid will escape till the finger is raised. Both appliances are useful in ophthalmic practice. The pipette is only adapted to the gentle instillation of one or several drops, while the eye-dropper may, in addition, be used for a forceful and copious flushing. This is true,