ORTHOPIC AND FUSION TRAINING. 203 however, of those wherein the thread is knotted in or tied to the tendon. It can be done with the multiple suture methods that have a meridional thread, by tying this first, but this, again, is in the way of a full effect. A certain vertical deflection of the muscle is difficult to avoid in the two suture modes. Another advantage of the single suture is that it facilitates removal. It is a curious fact that there is more dread and flinching on the part of the average patient relative to the taking out of the thread than to the making of the operation itself. One has merely to grasp the knot with the forceps and cut the suture. If the knot is not held by the forceps one risks attempt- ing to pull it through the stitch canal. A great deal has been said about the advantage of this or that advancement procedure in that the arrangement of the suture or sutures in the tendon tends to prevent its cutting out. From an abundant experience with his own method, both as performer and onlooker, the writer has long since come to the conclusion that it is far easier for the average surgeon to obtain a firm hold for the thread in capsule and tendon than in the globe; and this with regard to an operation where the suture is not tied fast to the tendon by "surgeon's knots." It may be that more is lost than gained by these ligations of the tendon. The object of the accompanying tenotomy being only for its temporary effect, the writer often omits it in the lower degrees of scpiint, but, owing to the fact that the greater the rotation the greater the resistance of an unweakened opponent, tenotomy has come to be an auxiliary in all whose angle is above 25 degrees. If advance- ment of the corresponding muscle of each eye fails to correct the squint, rather than make a tenotomy to complete the cure, a second advancement is made in case of the first eye operated. I consider advancement preferable to tenotomy for every form of scpiint, latent or manifest, where surgical measures are at all indicated. Orthoptic and fusion training are instituted at the earliest moment after operating in order to enhance the result. Binocular single vision, however, is not the rule in these cases. But, as Landolt has pointedly said, the best that the most skilled can do is to put the eyes approximately right and rely upon Nature to do the rest. So, by these exercises we strive still further to assist Nature. The length of time one should wait before making a similar