OPERATIONS UPON THE GLOBE. 376 and bandaging. The lost substance is thought by many to be replaced much more quickly and with less opacity after abrasion than after the cautery. In the days when collyria containing suba- cetate of lead was such a universal remedy for "sore eyes," abra- sion was frequently and successfully called into requisition for the removal of the peculiar, opalescent metallic deposits they occasioned. One rarely sees them nowadays. Other indications are the thick- ened, opaque epithelium resulting from pannus, the so-called girdle- shaped opacity, the black film caused by powder explosions, and characteristic chalky deposit consequent upon certain chronic diseases of the eye, especially those of the uveal tract. This deposit, which has also been called " ribbon-shaped keratitis," is most distinctive in appearance, resembling nothing so much as the frothy, glistening white stuff one often sees overlaying portions of the cornea in elderly people, and that has been expressed from the Meibomian ducts. Leber has recently shown that it is calcific de- generation of Bowman's membrane. It yields readily to abrasion. The nebulous opacities, which result from superficial keratitis, have sometimes been removed in this way. Indeed, as it is a relatively harmless procedure when done under favorable conditions, it ought oftener to be tried where there is any likelihood of the opacity being shallow. The operation is simple and easy. Local anesthesia is best when practicable; when not, chlorid of ethyl or similar narcosis. The lids are parted by the blepharostat and the eye steadied with fixation forceps. The scraping instrument may be a small, very sharp spoon or small convex-edged scalpel that is exceptionally keen. In scraping it is best to work always from the periphery of the spot toward its center so as not to leave the edge of the sur- rounding layers loosened and lifted up. One has only to scrape until clear or sound cornea is reached, irrigate thoroughly, and bandage. A septic condition of the conjunctiva or of the lacrimal canal are contraindications. The shaving and excision processes are not so much to be recom- mended. In the first, the opacity is pared away by means of a knife or curved lancet. In the second, the edge of the area is out- lined with the point of a knife and the flap dissected out with tiny forceps and knife.