464 OPERATIONS UPON THE GLOBE. prothesis, he closes the opening in conjunctiva and capsule by several sutures placed vertically. With the idea of increasing the movement of the stump left after enucleation, De Wecker, some twenty-five years ago, after the pericorneal incision, put in a tobacco-pouch suture that included conjunctiva, capsule, and tendons of the recti. He then proceeded to excise the globe by the Bonnet method, and finished by drawing up and tying the suture. This bringing together of the tendons with their aponeuroses intact would seem to be an improvement, with respect to control of the prothesis, over the earlier and simpler operations. The arrangement of the threads has been subjected to various alterations. One of the latest and best is that of Hansell and Sweet.1 "After dissecting the conjunctiva from the limbus, each straight muscle, together with the overlying conjunctiva and capsule of Tenon, is firmly grasped by the fixation forceps and separately sutured by single threads, before dividing the tendons from the sclera. After enucleation of the ball and the checking of the hemorrhage, the cut edges of the conjunctiva, with the muscles and capsule are brought together over the muscle bed by two or three sutures." The sense in which the sutures are directed is not specified, but as lateral movement is more to be sought in the artificial eye than is vertical, and as this movement depends, in a measure, upon the conservation of the conjunctival cul-de-sacs, to place the sutures vertically, thus closing the opening into a hori- zontal line, will act to deepen the lateral cul-de-sacs at the expense of those above and below. In a series of five papers published in the Ophthalmic Record for November, 1908, it appears that there have come to light 18 cases of sympathetic ophthalmia following Mules' operation; i.e., the insertion of some sort of ball within the sclera. These include the original 13 collected by Cross, and 5 since reported, namely, one each by Sherman, Emerson, Gifford, Oliver, and Brobst. The same source furnishes 4 cases of sympathetic ophthalmia following Frost's operation, i.e., implantation of a ball of some material in Tenon's capsule, one each by Cant, Lang, Sattler, and Davis. Also nine cases of the disease after evisceration without artificial 1 Diseases of the Eye, Phila., 1903, p. 283.