591 THE MODERN CORNEAL INCISION. the lower bounds of the incision, and are supposed to be on the same horizontal level. Assuming that these terminals can be accurately placed as desired—which at the hands of the experienced operator is pretty certain—and that the cut will unerringly follow the limbus from start to finish, one might with tolerable certainty give a uniform configuration, position, and extent. Now, such infallibility is not possible to the skillful, even in operating on pig's eyes in a mask, much less so, to all degrees of dexterity, in dealing with the living human eye, in subjects possessed of all grades of sense and sensitiveness. Hence, the making of a uniformly satisfactory corneal section is, perhaps, the most difficult feat in all surgery—a feat to which the greatest has never attained. Agnew, with all the marvelous precision of his art, and De Wecker, startlingly brilliant as he was, I have seen baffled in their aim in this particular. True, if one were satisfied to habitually make an unduly large section, the thing might be easier. In order to locate the site of puncture and counterpuncture, it has been customary, with most operators, to select a certain fraction of the corneal circumference that shall be detached: Daviel, 1 /2 to 10/16; Travers, 1/4; Critchett and De Wecker, 1/3; Panas, 2/5, etc., the idea being to bisect the extremities of this chosen arc as puncture and counterpuncture. To me, a readier way has always seemed the fancying of a sort of scale marked upon the vertical diameter of of the corneal base, and to choose thereon the level of the two points. In other words, to place the horizontal chord of the arc and not the arc itself. It will be seen by looking at Fig. 267, that Travers' quarter section arc included about 1/6 of said diameter; Critchett's and De Wecker's 1/3 arc just 1/4 the diameter, and Stellway v. Carion's and Panas' 2/5 arc about 1/3 of the diameter. Now, Travers' section is obviously too small for other than in- strumental delivery of any ordinary cataract, although it were made in the plane of the greatest corneal curve, viz., the base, and with the curve of both wound openings parallel, which, of course, would mean as near as possible to the true linear section (Fig. 268). Critchett's and De Wecker's, if it could be made ideal, i.e., exactly in the base and with the minimum of difference in the size of outer and inner wound openings, should be adecpiate for any ordinary senile