339 PTERYGIUM. wind, dust, etc., hence rarely occurring in females. It appears as a triangular band of more or less reddened conjunctiva with its apex primarily at the limbus, and may be either stationary or progressive. It is most often situated on the nasal side of the cornea (internal pterygium), less often on the temporal (external pterygium) and still less often on both sides at once (double pteryg- ium). Its rounded, whitish apex is usually referred to as the head, the adjoining portion as the neck, and its wide, fandike expansion as the body. Another classification is made of true pterygium into progressive and stationary. The former being characterized by greater vascu- larity, redness, and thickness (pterygium crassum), while the latter is pale and thin (pterygium tenuis). Originally, of course, the second form has been of the progressive kind which has become retrogressive. Progressive pterygia demand operative interference at the earliest possible moment, in order to insure good and lasting results. In proportion as they are allowed to occupy the pupillary area of the cornea, the sight is prejudiced, both immediately and consecutively. The stationary variety, especially when the cornea is but slightly implicated, may be safely let alone. It is eminently justifiable, how- ever, that they be removed, if only for cosmetic reasons. The number of operative procedures that have been devised for the cure of the growth in question is very large, but for convenience, the methods may be reduced to three or, at most, four. 1. Ablation, or the complete taking away by excision, or by the latter combined with scraping and cauterization, called also abscis- sion. 2. Transplantation—called by some deviation, and by others burying. 3. Ligation. 4. Cauterization (though hardly admissible except as an ad junct to one of the other measures). 1. Operations for pterygium were resorted to in very early times. The growth was looked upon as a species of tumor, of a certain malignance, and it was dealt with by ablation, partial or complete. Celsus,1 for example, seized the neck with a sharp hook and passed 1 Rome, A. D. 1.