OPERATIONS UPON THE EXTRINSIC MUSCLES. 192 the cut muscle will recede. This is found in a suture arranged after a given fashion. The first, to my knowledge, to use such a suture, was A. E. Prince, of Springfield, 111., back in the early "eighties." I have not at hand this article on the subject nor do I recall the exact technic. Prince called it ''tenotomy with a control suture." A little later, Colburn, of Chicago, made a similar tenotomy and named the thread " restrain suture." In the American Journal of Ophthalmology for March, 1889, the writer published his method of making the operation under the caption " curb tenotomy." It is substantially as follows: The tendon is exposed by a horizontal incision through conjunctiva and capsule, whose center is over the middle of the insertion. The tendon is caught upon a small flattish hook, which is shoved back to free the muscle from its sheath. A double-armed thread of No. 1 braided silk is put into the tendon 2 or 3 mm. behind the insertion by passing a needle down through close to each border, and the loop thus formed pulled down snug. The needles are then carried beneath Tenon's capsule, one above, the other below, just in line with the loop, given a good bite, and brought out through both capsule and conjunctiva. While the operator holds the thread, an aid rotates the eye far outward (it being the internus) in order to still further loosen the tendon from its surroundings; the globe is set free and the suture so tied as to leave a slight convergence. The same suture closed the opening in the membranes. Of course, the tendon does not reunite to the globe, but to its aponeurosis. In about half my cases all the gain was cosmetic; the rest showed increased motility in both lateral directions. 6. Operations Upon the Check Ligaments.—Ailerons Capsul- aires, of the French, and Bindenfliigels of the Germans. The studies of Motais, Kalt, and others have demonstrated that it is possible to enhance the power of an ocular muscle by judicious division of the adjacent check ligament, just as Landolt has shown that proper advancement of a lateral muscle may cause extension of the field of fixation in both directions. At a result of his researches Motais has given certain rules for such capsulotomy. Supposing an internal squint: Turn the eye outward, incise conjunctiva and the tissue beneath it from near the cornea to the center of the tendon, thence the mucosa along its whole length in front of the muscle.