524 EXTRACTION OF CATARACT. considered the appearance to be the result of simple retention of the lymph in the channels adjacent to the wound due to traumatism and not to imbibition of liquid or infiltration. He looked upon it as a quite innocent condition, exceping in the event of an accompany- ing violent iris reaction, when the vertical strias are seen to be crossed by a horizontal set. If all eyes upon which extraction has been made were closely scrutinized with a magnifying glass under strong focal illumination, this condition would, to a degree, doubtless be found in a large number. The treatment consists only in ordinary care and bandaging. Dionin is usually indicated. Glaucoma, secondary to the operation, is not a frequent sequel, but is said to follow in i% after the combined operation, and less often after the simple. Aside from predisposition to the disease, among the local exciting causes are abuse of atropin, abandoned lens remains, incarceration of iris or of the capsule, rudeness in delivering lens or in the capsulotomy, or anything that tends to the excitation of uveitis. Delayed union of the wound has been set down as a factor for the reasons alluded to under that head. However, one should not always look to the eye alone for the cause of the glaucoma. There are times when the disease is un- doubtedly due to a more remote systemic condition. This may be some kind of autointoxication, as from renal insufficiency; or it may be a form of discrasy, like gout or syphilis. According to De Lapersonne, uric acid retention tends to excite glaucoma by the production of a species of edema of the vitreous. These facts serve to emphasize the importance of a thorough physical examination in connection with the operation of extraction. In this way one may at times be greatly aided in the choice of a remedy with which to combat a complication—be enabled, for example, to cut short an attack of glaucoma by measures other than surgical. The combined operation, because of the frequent involvement of some part of the iris in the healing of the incision, is thought to favor glaucoma more than is the simple. When the tension is obviously due to swelling cortex behind the iris after simple extrac- tion, iridectomy should be immediately resorted to and whatever is feasible of the offending material removed. In the great majority of instances, however, the cortex will have become encapsuled or so adherent that its attempted riddance is out of the question. In