123 CHAPTER III. OPERATIONS UPON THE APPENDAGES OF THE EYE. THE LACRIMAL APPARATUS. Dilating the Punctum.—Probes or sounds and die canulas of lacrimal syringes up to one millimeter in diameter may be passed through the undivided punctum by first stretching this opening somewhat. The measure usually suffices to reestablish the punctum when superficially closed. The Most Suitable Instrument is the conical probe or stylet of Landolt (Plate VIII, No. 100), a modification of Bowman's "di- rector." The kinds commonly on sale by the dealers in surgical instruments have cones that are too long, slender, and sharp. Their excessive length and slenderness are objectionable because they necessitate a maximum of entrance into the canal with a minimum of dilatation of the punctum. The point of the excessively long ones might bring up against the lacrimal fossa ere the stretching was sufficient. Their sharpness of point is objectionable for the reason that it is apt to wound the walls of the canal, causing false tracts, etc. The cone, then, should not exceed two centimeters in length, gradually tapering from a diameter of two millimeters at the shank to that of one-third of a millimeter at the point. The latter should be neatly rounded or, better still perhaps, have an olive-shaped bull) whose greatest diameter could be one-third to one-half a millimeter. Every eye surgeon, doubtless, has noticed with what facility a tiny bulbous extremity on knife or probe will enter the punctum. The dilator or stylet should have a handle to itself, i.e., not at one end of a handle that it shares with another instrument at the other end. These double instruments, of which a number have been made, do not conform to correct ideas of modern aseptic surgery. To Dilate the Punctum, the patient may lie on a table, but it is better that he sit in a low chair. A towel is put over his hair. The operator stands behind the chair for the lower puncta, and offers his chest as a support for the patient's head. Supposing it