BLEPHAROSTATS. 1 I I patient's lids; and also the lightening and reducing of the whole mechanism so as to make it more delicate and compact. Two years ago he set about making an improvement in the lid-holders and in the spring, especially designed for cataract operations. One objectionable feature of the majority of lid-holders had been a bar that rested beneath the lid. Many and many an eye has been sacrificed to this, particularly in operations for the extraction of cataract, by its catching in the wound. Another was that the cilia and the ducts opening in the lid border were suffered to pollute the site of operation. The Landolt model has not the bar, but it has the other objection. Only the old, solid lid-holder of Weiss, (or Laurence) was free from both. Yet in all other respects, the Weiss blepharostat is a very clumsy affair, the lid-holders being merely two straight gutters, adapted neither to the curve of the free border nor to the convexity of the globe. Gaullipat and Lang overcame one of these defects by making the bottom of the trough convex, in order to lit the concavity of the lid-margins. In addi- tion to this curve the blepharostat shown in Plate VIII, No. go, has another at right angles to the first, by which the inner wall of the gutter is made to conform to the convex surface of the globe, and the outer wall to that of the outer surface of the lid. Moreover, the inner wall of the trough is made decidedly lower than the outer, so that its rim will not press up in the fornix, as such pressure tends to produce spasm of the orbicularis and to restrict the rotation of the globe when the patient attempts to look downward, the very direc- tion in which he should look during most operations. The impor- tance of this feature will be appreciated when it is remembered that the conjunctival sacs of many of the cataract subjects are shrunken and the cul-de-sacs shallow. The comfortable way in which the lids are held apart with this form of blepharostat reduces the inclination to squeeze, and the eye can be rolled upward repeatedly without risk of eversion of the corneal flap. The shape of the lid- holders renders them a trifle less easy to put in place than some others, but this is not to be considered in comparison with the readiness and safety with which the instrument may be removed. I first thought that it would be needful that one should have a pair of such blepharostats—a right and a left—with a smaller, straighter trough for the lower lid. This was found to be an error. Indeed, the