TO PROTECT FROM RUST. II9 valuable the instruments, the fewer in a box. Knives are placed in the racks edge downward. An exception is made as regards lace-knives, which are placed pointing to the left. These boxes can be put together in a leather bag or, what is bet.er, stuck around in the different pockets of one's clothing. The rounded nickel boxes with racks, and holding springs projecting from the under side o their lids are splendidly adapted to carrying in the pocket. For the non-cutting instruments all that is needed is the plain nickel box, with rounded corners—i.e., without racks or s]wrings. A layer of absorbent cotton is put in first, then the instruments, then enough cotton laid on top of them to prevent rattling about. If forceps are put into such a box, each should have a section of rubber tub ng slipped over its branches to keep its jaws closed. Before boiling, the rubber must be removed, else a tarnished streak will appear at the place it occupied. Also, in boiling, the delicate ends of instruments should be wrapped in, or wound with, absorbent cotton, to protect them from injury. All knives should be clamped in racks before boiling. To Protect From Rust.—If steel instruments are put away dry they seldom rust. Especially is this true of those that are kept in dry buildings and of those in daily use. Such as are out of present use or are being kept for any reason would better be given a coat of cocoa butter, vaselin, or lard. This refers not only to the plain steel instruments but also to those plated with nickel; for steel in these is often exposed in places. A propos of nickel plating, it should cover all steel instruments except the blades of knives, the edges of scissors, and the jaws of forceps. The custom of leaving it off iris forceps and a few others is inexplicable. After using, these instruments are washed first with cool water to remove blood, etc., then immersed in very hot water, and, lastly, wiped with soft linen, then dipped in benzin or gasoline, and allowed to dry spontaneously. This last process has the effect of leaving upon the metal an insensible coating of oil which effectually prevents rust. While it is no more than proper that the water should be sterile in each instance, it is not necessary to use any antiseptic. These are only or use preparatory to the operation. It need hardly be ex- plained that the reason the instruments are not put directly into the scalding water after being used is because blood, or other albu-