655 LOOSENING. cision. Here, if the foreign body is in the posterior segment, the tip of the magnet is applied to the summit of the cornea, so that, in coming forward, it will not engage in the ciliary body. A piece of metal once caught in the soft corrugations there, either primarily or secondarily—especially if it is sharp and angular—is most difficult to extricate. If the lens is already much wounded or cataractous, the attraction may be kept up, as begun, until the foreign body is seen to enter the anterior chamber. If, on the other hand, the crystalline seems normal or but little injured, as soon as there has been any evidence of advancement on the part of the foreign body or it has come up behind the back surface of the lens, the direction of the attraction is shifted to a point near the limbus so as to cause the metal to travel around by the zonule. Now, one must watch closely for any bulging forward of the iris produced by the foreign body. The impact against this sensitive membrane is often first made known by a sudden move by the patient. The current is in- stantly shut off and tip changed to the opposite side, in order to make the foreign body pass through the pupil. To have the latter dilated facilitates this step. If any special difficulties seem to lie in the way of getting the foreign body readily through the pupil, it were better to make an iridectomy just over the point where the foreign body lies in the posterior chamber. Once landed in the anterior chamber, the metal is dealt with according to the rules already given. Loosening.—When the foreign body is fast in any of the tunics of the globe or is densely encapsuled, the chances of getting it with even the most powerful magnet are greatly lessened. A valuable office filled by the big magnet in these cases is the loosening of the metal. When possible, its exact location is ascertained beforehand. The patient is placed on a stool in front of the magnet, and the tip is applied to the globe or approached close to it, in the immediate vicinity of the foreign body, in such a way as to pull it sidewise. Every means must be used to obtain the full strength of the magnet. And it may be necessary to go all around the foreign body, pulling from every point; shutting the current off and on in quick succession now and again. The patient is instructed to be on the alert for any sensation indicative of movement on the part of the foreign body, such as a jar or vibration, a flash of light, or a pain in the eye, and