SUMMARY. 243 I consider the Hotz idea, as embodied in this procedure, to con- stitute, probably, one of its most salient advantages, and, taken all in all, theoretically as well as practically, it seems to possess some of the best points of other ptosis operations, and eliminates some of their worst faults. It is adapted to all the ordinary forms of ptosis, the degree of effect being governed by the height of the fold made in the broad ligament of the tarsus, its distance from the upper border of the tarsus, and, in some measure, by the distance of the primary incision from the free border of the lid. Narcosis is employed only when necessary. Cocain solution injected into the skin is less of a help than a hindrance. It is usually dropped into the open wound, but it is of doubtful benefit. Summary.—In the foregoing chapter an attempt has been made to give, by describing example ptosis operations, an idea of some of the many different methods, and to illustrate the guiding principle in each instance. In the primitive operation of excising a segment of skin mere shortening of the lid was the aim and the end. Naturally, this can only be applicable to cases characterized by an actual redundance of integument, i.e., cutaneous ptosis, or blepharo- chalasis, for, in general, the lids of ptosic subjects are already too scant. This is particularly true of congenital ptosis, in which the lids are short, flat, and devoid of any sulcus in the skin. In the operation of von Graefe the object was the weakening of the an- tagonist of the levator or the orbicularis, and was manifestly faulty in the premises. The Bowman-Gillet de Grandemont methods are similar to von Graefe's in that they really amount to subcutaneous shortening of the lid; but they are an improvement in so far as they effect an advancement of the elevators of the tarsus. As to the palpebro-frontal ligament of Dransart, as represented in the original operation and in those of Mules, Bishop, Wilder, and others, there is no denying that the results are positive, but they are mainly due to shortening. There is no definite advancement of the normal elevators, the lifting of the lid is relegated almost wholly to the frontalis, which is but a poor substitute, and besides, a foreign body is left in the tissues; not the least objection to this is that it is sometimes extruded. They would seem to be superior to those other methods that are employed for putting the lid in more direct connection with the frontalis, whereby tongues or strips of