457 I-.MCI l.\ l ln.V in the remaining steps. It can often be got out and ought to be, when possible, before proceeding, by the methods described under "Immediate Accidents in Extraction." A thin layer of blood lying between cornea and iris after the operation is concluded is of no consequence, for it will soon be absorbed, but if a greater quantity be present, it should not be ignored lest the resulting clot might serve as the starting-point of a new growth within the anterior chamber. With regard to the consecutive accidents in connection with iridectomy, they are, in the main, such as are treated of under "Extraction," and need no repetition here. Given a fairly healthy eye and a normal iridectomy, with keratome or bent-lance incision, done under the conditions demanded by modern ideas, and few operations in eye surgery are attended with less risk in the after- treatment. The corneal wound closes in most instances by primary union, and great restriction of the patient's liberty is not needful. After iridectomy for glaucoma, on the other hand, a binocular bandage and the utmost quiet that is consistent with safety to the circulatory system are indispensable. These things are all the more to be insisted upon if the wound does not close promptly. Tardy closure of the incision after iridectomy for glaucoma—par- ticularly the subacute or intermittent variety—is something to be dreaded; more so than after the ordinary extraction, for all the good that might otherwise accrue to the eye can be thereby nullified. The pillars of what had been an ideal coloboma are swallowed up, and the anterior chamber is definitively abolished. The much- lauded "filtration scar"—that is, one that is truly effective in keep- ing the intraocular tension within bounds—is no more apt to follow delayed than immediate closure of the incision. In short, the more quickly the anterior chamber is reestablished, the better. A second iridectomy is occasionally required in a glaucomatous eye. It is the practice of most surgeons to make the new coloboma but a continuation of the old—an extension, as it were. ENUCLEATION. Enucleatio bulbi; excision of the globe; shelling out the eyeball are terms in good usage for a surgical procedure whereby