445 CHOICE OF KNIFE FOR IRIDECTOMY. ing motion. One may make a conjunctival flap at the finish, just as in the operation of extraction. Adversely, it may be truthfully urged that the use of the Graefe knife leads to gaping of the wound and inability to control the escape of aqueous. Hence, seeing that the instrument is resorted to mostly in glaucomatous eyes, dislocation of the lens, jamming of that body into the incision, or even its escape, prolapse of the iris, and post- choroidal hemorrhage are all invited. The usual method is by puncture and counterpuncture, though not always. Streatfeild, for instance, would employ a rather broad Graefe or Sichel cataract knife, force it as far as practicable into the anterior chamber, then extend the wound to the requisite length by cutting in the withdrawal. Such a maneuver necessitates not only much skill, but an exception- ally docile patient. Somewhat less daring is a mode practised by Dehenne, which is quite practicable where the anterior chamber is shallow and but a small incision is desired. This consists in entering the outer limit of the anterior chamber with a narrow Graefe knife from a point 1.5 mm. back of the limbus, and, as soon as the point appears in front of the iris, extending the cut for four or five mm., parallel with the corneal border, by a steady motion which is a compound of pushing and sawing. To prevent torsion of the globe the grasp of the fixation forceps must be close up to the place where the incision begins. To obtain an incision of sufficient length in an eye whose anterior chamber is lacking, has taxed the ingenuity of the ocular surgeon severely, and has given rise to a number of expediments that are, for the most part, no less perplexing than the original problem itself. To cite a few: Brundenell Carter1 advised making a small puncture at each of the spots marking the extremities of the incision and joining them by means of the blunt bent keratome of Desmarres, introduced first at one puncture, then at the other. The late Prof. Gayet,1 of Lyons, has supplied what is probably the most practicable method. The globe is firmly fixed, close to the site of the proposed incision, by the double fixation forceps of Monoyer. The cut is made with the Desmarres scarificator. The 1 Lancet, vol. ii, p. 561, 1875. 2 Bull. et. mem., soc. franc, d'opht., 1884, p. 41.