OPERATIONS UPON THE GLOBE. 444 devised both lance and Graefe knives with shanks of similar form for like emergencies. For the extra peripheral iridectomy in glaucoma, with very shallow anterior chamber, it will be necessary, in the use of the lance, to begin the incision 1/2 to 2 mm. back of the apparent sclero- corneal junction and push the blade straight forward with just sufficient backward inclination to cause the point to enter the ex- treme outer limit of the anterior chamber, keeping the wound parallel with the corneal base—aiming, as it were, for the iridic angle—having pierced which, the handle is depressed to clear the iris, but not so as to engage the posterior surface of the cornea, and thus pushed forward, only altering the plane of the blade in the event of infringing too much upon either iris or cornea, always bearing in mind that it is safer that the point should hug cornea than iris (Fig. 227). Should there be no visible space between cornea and iris, one can hardly hope to make an adequate incision with the bent keratome but must resort to either the unsatisfactory proced- ure of extending the cut by another instrument or to a totally different means for opening the anterior chamber. The instru- ment most often chosen for such cases is The Narrow Cataract Knife.—Ever since its introduction by von Graefe, th s instrument has been used by ophthalmic surgeons for iridectomy as well as for extraction, either habitually or in selected cases. It becomes almost a necessity where there is practi- cally obliteration of the anterior chamber. The blade should be exceedingly narrow. The incision cannot be started as far back of the apparent limbus as with the lance knife, for the reason that the plane of the iris is the same as that of the cornea, and puncture and counterpuncture would lie too close together. The point is made to enter the anterior chamber by a short wound canal, the handle then depressed, the blade insinuated a little way, not pushing it straight across, as in extraction, but rather working along nearer the periphery of the iris, even pushing back the more bulging portion of the membrane, as the blade is advanced, using the puncture as a fulcrum, until the point is reached for making the counterpuncture, or from 6 to 8 mm. from the point of insertion. Being now assured that the blade lies flat upon the iris, the point is pushed out and close down to the limbus; then the incision is completed by a steady saw-