THE REMOVAL OF FOREIGN BODIES. 656 to tell of it at once. A change having been felt, before the foreign body could be intelligently extracted it might be necessary to relocate it. If this could be done with the ophthalmoscope, so much the better. Certainly, before thinking of a scleral incision through which to extract, localization should be essential. Were the foreign body situated in the ciliary body or in the root of the iris, to draw it forward might only make matters worse, and to cut down upon it under these conditions at once would hardly be proper. The preferable way would be to draw it first backward, and, if possible, slightly inward, that is, with respect to the center of the vitreous. When practicable, this should be done on that side of the sclera adjacent to the foreign body. Having moved it, relocation or not, and removal according to one of the approved methods. It is well, always to remember that success depends in great measure upon localization. If, on the contrary, the foreign body refused to budge, then one need not hesitate to make incision over it and to attempt its extraction with one or both of the magnets and, if need be, with the aid of probe and forceps. The fact that the cut would lie in the ciliary zone need no longer be a bar. Relative Merits of Small and Large Magnets.—To a consider- able extent the impression seems to prevail that, as regards this subject, ophthalmic surgeons are divided into two camps—one led by Hirschberg and the other by Haab. As a matter of fact, there are many who are more uncompromising in this affair than is either of the gentlemen just named. Hirschberg not only uses the large magnet when occasion requires it, but he has actually had constructed a larger one than that of Haab. And he of Zurich? Well, he often employs the hand-magnet in connection with the anterior chamber, and has been known to do so for foreign bodies behind the iris. To quote his own words: "When shall the small magnet be used? Answer: Within the bounds of the vitreous as little as possible; within those of the anterior chamber as you will." Un- questionably, each has its advantages and each its limitations, if not its drawbacks, and both are absolutely indispensable in this kind of work. None have better proven their worth than their illustrious inventors themselves—Hirschberg in more than 350 instances, Haab in more than 300. It is certain that the small magnet is easily portable, that it is more