179 THE BEARD ADVANCEMENT OPERATION. in one case—viz., Dr. H. Lindo Ferguson1—practically identical with this, though it is a pleasant reflection that they all lack priority. In most instances the first part of the operation consists in the making of the neatest possible buttonhole, as per description on page 164 of the tendon of the muscle opposite to that which is to be advanced. The sole object of this temporary breaking of the power of that muscle, so that the advanced tendon may have a relatively undis- turbed period during which to make its new insertion. The tiny scissors and hooks of Dr. Stevens, of New York, are employed. The patient is told to look far to the opposite side; with mouse- tooth forceps the conjunctiva, and only this membrane, is picked up in a vertical fold, well back of the insertion of the muscle; with small, straight scissors, slightly blunted at the points, a snip is made across the fold, exactly over the center of the tendon, and the incision thus begun is carried forward horizontally till it reaches the margin of the cornea. Then the episcleral tissue forward of the insertion of the tendon, if there be enough of it, is in like manner incised, so that a furrow is opened, whose bottom is the naked sclera, and along which the cut tendon is to slide. By so doing, one reaches the tendon by positive stages, neatly and discriminately, and avoids giving it an unguarded snip, which is possible with too heroic cutting. The tendon, lightly covered by its aponeurosis,2 being now well in view, is slightly lifted by the forceps, and a medium-size squintdiook inserted beneath it, as close as can be to the insertion. No advancement force s is put on to mangle the tendon—an assistant holding the hook until the suture is placed. 1 Transactions of the Ophthalmic Society of the United Kingdom, vol. xvii,' p. 336. 2 In striving for marked effect one must be careful to avoid undue advancement of Tenon's capsule. This means tightening of the check ligament on that side and consequent restriction of motility. partial tenotomy is to cause a Fig. 74.—Beard's advancement oper- ation. The tiny dotted oval is to represent spot where tendon was at- tached. The double dotted line shows where thread is anchored to sclera. The tendon is never laid bare as this drawing would indicate.