240 OPERATIONS FOR PTOSIS. meridional incision of the conjunctiva, beginning over the center of the insertion of the tendon of the superior rectus, or about seven mm. from the upper corneal limbus—is extended through the retro- tarsal folds, to end at the convex edge of the tarsus (Fig. 117). This is opened and retracted, so as to plainly reveal the tendon, which is then lifted upon a strabismus hook. The hook is worked back and forth in such a manner as to loosen the tendon from its surroundings. A fine, but strong braided suture, armed with two curved needles, is passed in and out through the tendon near its insertion, so as to include its middle third. To give the thread a solid hold, it has been The surgeon places the tip of his index behind the inverted lid as a guide, and, with the scissors, makes a pocket between the anterior surface of the tarsus and the fascia of the orbicularis. This pocket is wide enough to receive the tongue and reaches almost to the border of the lid. The needles are passed into the pocket, through at its bottom, to emerge on the skin surface of the lid, near the cilia, about 4 mm. apart, and are tied over a roll of antiseptic gauze (Fig. 118). The conjunctival opening is closed with fine sutures. It were well to have these of catgut and leave them to be absorbed, thereby obviating any disturbance of the lid at the end of two or three days. The thread attached to the tendon is removed at the end of 5 days to a week. Motais' procedure is founded upon the synergy of action existing between the superior rectus and the levator. It follows, theoretically, that, as a result of the engrafted tendon, natural movements are suggested that it be at once tied. This, however, is apt to complicate matters in removing it. With knife and fine blunt- pointed scissors, a tongue is formed of the portion embraced by the thread, its free extremity cut flush with the sclera, and the other left at the union of the Fig. 118.—Motais. muscle fibres; i.e., it extends the entire length of the tendon. It must be seen to that the thread is firmly fixed in the end of the tongue. If there be any doubt on this point, the tongue is folded upon itself and the suture again passed through.