ACCIDENTS, ETC., CONSECUTIVE TO EXTRACTION. 5 21 If present, the trouble usually begins within twenty-four hours, and hardly ever beyond seventy-two hours from the time of operating. Bach says that infections appearing earlier than forty-eight hours after the operation come from the instruments. Dor states that in- fections coming after forty-eight hours and before seventy-two hours are from the conjunctiva and not from the instruments. Most infections occurring after four days are probably endogenous. At the onset of the infection generally, not invariably, there is pain, lacrimation, etc. Inspection of the eye shows puffiness of the lids, edema of the conjunctiva, mucous or mucopurulent discharge, gray softening of the lips of the incision, and, if the process has got well under way, yellowish streaks leading from the wound into the deeper parts of the globe, and a turbid, greenish glimmer of the iris. A rarer form of infection is that which originates in the iris or vitreous, and comes somewhat later than wound suppuration; indeed, before its onset healing of the incision has generally been effected. The origin of the poison in these cases is believed usually to be endogen- ous. In spite of the most vigorous measures, the usual end of a rank infection is panophthalmitis. Now and then, by the very early recourse to energetic treatment, however, not only is the globe saved, but useful sight as well. As our science advances, the aspect of these cases grows less discouraging, just as their occurrence becomes less frequent, and one is not expected to give up, as formerly, but, on the contrary, to make a desperate hght for it in every instance. For the prevention of infective processes after operations that necessitate opening of the globe, De Wecker conceived the idea of making peritomy, loosening up the conjunctiva and putting in a purse-string suture, making the extraction (or other operation), then drawing the conjunctiva together, thus covering with it the entire cornea. This procedure has been practised lately by Ellet, of Memphis. Kuhnt, of Konigsberg, for the same purpose, loosened the conjunctiva only around the upper half or two-thirds of the cornea, drew it down and sutured it to the episcleral tissue at either side opposite the center of the cornea. Gilford, of Omaha, makes use of the purse-string suture surrounding the entire cornea and ending below, but dissects up only that encircling the upper half. After the cataract operation, he ties the suture which pulls the conjunctiva effectually over the incision.