611 EXENTERATION OF THE ORBIT. that the most important structures are to be scrupulously avoided. A narrow strip of antiseptic gauze is passed down to the bottom of each cut by means of a tent-probe. This should fit loosely that it may serve as a drain, and not be stuffed in tightly, to act as a stopper. Diagnostic, or exploratory, incisions are such as are made with the view of ascertaining the exact nature of a lesion hidden more or less deeply from view. They are executed by thrusting or lancing, as are the evacuative kind, or by cutting, with the edge of a scalpel, carefully through the tissues. The first mode would be allowable only in the event of a liquid lesion—if, in other words, distinct fluctuation was found. Then its quality might be determined by causing it to escape through a simple puncture. If, on the other hand, the injury concerned a tumescence of greater consistence, the incision should be carried slowly and discriminately through the successive layers covering the mass, until the latter is exposed. If mere inspection of it enables one to judge of its character, well and good. If not, a portion may be excised for microscopic ex- amination. It must be borne in mind, however, that certain of the softer sarcomata are incited to tremendous activity by interfering in this manner, and must be handled very conservatively. Above all, one must not be tempted into plunging a knife into one of these, with the view of drawing off a supposed fluid. EXENTERATION OF THE ORBIT. Also called evisceration, refers to an operation whereby the con- tents of the orbital cavity are more or less completely removed, and accordingly, the exenteration is designated as total or partial. Total exenteration means the removal of the entire contents, in- clusive of all the periosteal lining, with sometimes the cleaning out of adjacent cavities, such as the middle nasal fossa, the maxillary, frontal, and ethmoidal sinuses, and even the spheno-maxillary fossa through the fissure of that name. Partial exenteration never comprises sacrifice of the periosteum, and, in many instances, not necessarily that of a certain portion of the other contents. Either method may involve the removal of one or both lids, provided the disease at fault has not already destroyed them. One or the other procedure is indicated in all cases where enucleation or a