ENTROPION. 252 is not to be considered. If the entropion be still purely spastic, one of the safest and most effective remedies is canthoplasty, with free division of the external canthal ligament—the cantholysis of Agnew—as described in its proper place. One may also have recourse to one of the suture operations. These, of which a number have been devised, consist in inserting a thread or a series of threads, vertically in the tissue of the lower lid, that through the tying or through the consequent cicatrizing will correct the entropion. The forerunner of most of them was that of Hippocrates, who passed a ligature through a horizontal fold of the skin just beneath the free border, and allowed it to suppurate out. Gaillard1 entered from one to three curved needles, carrying silk thread into the skin just beneath the lashes, that penetrated to the tarsus, followed its anterior surface, thus including skin and orbicularis, and emerged, straight below, some fifteen millimeters or more from the point of entrance, according to the degree of redressal required. They were tied tightly and left till their spontaneous release. Arlt2 modified Gaillard's method (Fig. 123) so that, in accordance with present ideas, it might be thus described: Two No. 3 braided black silk sutures, previously boiled in vaselin-paraffin and otherwise aseptically prepared, are needed, each of which is armed with two curved needles. With left finger and thumb a horizontal fold of the skin large enough to correct the defect is picked up beneath the affected lid. One pair of the needles is made to penetrate the base of the fold on the same level, two or three millimeters apart, and about the same distance (three millimeters) from the free border—one on either side of the junction of the middle with the outer third of the lower lid. They are passed downward between tarsus and muscle, and brought out as in the Gaillard operation. The other pair is similarly introduced, astride the junction of the middle and inner thirds of the lid. In tying, a cylinder of some soft material is placed beneath both knots and under both loops, whilst a large probe or other round instrument is pressed against the tarsus to make it cave inward. A bandage is applied until the sutures are removed at the end of forty-eight hours. 1 Bull, de la Soc. med. de Poetiers, 1844. 2 Die Krankh. des Aug., iii, S. 368, 1856.