THE TECHNIC OF MAGNET OPERATIONS. extended sufficiently with blunt-pointed scissors. W hen the tip is thought to be near the metal, the circuit is completed by pressing the button on the magnet, holding the magnet still for a few seconds. If the foreign body is attracted to the tip, and is of fair size, there w ill be a slight shock, and a click denoting that it is caught. All that remains is to withdraw the tip, all the while pressing down the button. Should the foreign body be very small, there will be no evidence of having brought it to the magnet, and the instrument must be withdrawn and the tip examined. A tightly coapting wound may tend to strip off the foreign body. In that case its lips will have to be parted with liny, nonmagnetic retractors or a more suitable tip substituted. It need hardly be stated that neither iron, steel, nor nickel instruments are admissible at the time the magnet is working; they must be of brass, aluminum, German silver, hard rubber, etc. Those that are not used in conjunction w ith the magnet, such as scissors and knives, may be of the usual kind Not succeed- ing at first in bringing out the object sought, the tip may be inserted again and again, gently feeling about in the vicinity, making and breaking the circuit at intervals, and taking care not to disturb the vitreous more than is prudent. Poking ami fishing desperately and deep are disastrous and inexcusable, whether the foreign body has been definitely located or not. Failing still, resort should be had to the more powerful magnet rules for the manipulation of which will be given later. Having recovered the foreign body, the site of the operation is cleansed, the scleral opening, if large or inclined to gape is closed by a fine, absorbable suture or two, superficially placed, he membranous opening sutured with black silk, and the eye bandaged. Often it is better to omit stitches from the sclera. The metal not having come to light, it is a question of more accurate localization and another magnet operation, of exenteration, of enucleation, or of temporizing, and its decision must be left to the judgment of those in charge. Supposing that the wound of entrance is not available through which to extract; that the foreign body has been located at a distance from it; or that it has long since healed; or that penetration has been by way of the cornea. In any case the scleral incision is in order. This should be as near to the foreign body as the situation w ill allow. If making it in an unfavorable spot—i.e., unfavorable