OPERATIONS UPON THE GLOBE 452 Desmarres' blunt-pointed keratome. Given a lance-knife with a blade at once relatively broad and short, a cornea relatively thick, and a wound canal not of the shortest, and it is easy to obtain an insignificant inner wound opening with a fairly long external one. Should one suspect such a state of affairs, a slight rocking of the knife from side to side just before its withdrawal will result in enlargement of the inner opening. 2. Engaging the Iris with the Knife.—This comes (a) of failure to alter the plane of the blade to one parallel with that of the iris the moment the point has entered the anterior chamber, or (b) from piercing the sclera so far back and so squarely that the knife encounters the iris before entering the anterior chamber; or (c) because of hugging the front surface of the iris rather than the back surface of the cornea in pushing forward the blade. The prevention in each instance is obvious. If a occurs and is detected immediately, the knife may be very slightly pulled back and faintly wiggled to disengage. If the involvement is more pronounced and withdrawal necessitates emptying of the anterior chamber, the operation would better be deferred. If b happens, the iris begins to tear from its attachment the moment the point enters it, and if the operator is not led to suspect the accident by the non- appearance of the point at the expected time and place, iridodialysis, or grave injury to the lens, or both, may ensue. At best, it means postponement of the operation. In the event of being confronted by c, if one is closely observant of the progress of the knife and the patient is quiet, the point may be promptly freed as soon as it catches, as suggested for a, its direction changed to a safer plane and the section completed. If for any reason the entanglement is such as to necessitate escape of the aqueous in trying to free it, and so peripheral as to make certain an extensive iridodialysis by forging ahead, it were best the operation be put off. It is only in case of picking up the iris at the lesser circle with the extreme tip of the blade that one might risk tilting back the handle to avoid the lens and pushing forward a short distance, even at the expense of a small rent of the iris, with the view to enlarging the incision afterward. These points have reference to the use of the lance- knife. Those relative to that of the Graefe knife are given under "Accidents During Extraction."