l62 OPERATIONS UPON THE EXTRINSIC MUSCLES. a horizontal incision through conjunctiva and capsule of Tenon, passing over the insertion, or, as was most often preferred, by a vertical incision between the insertion and the cornea. The con- junctiva is undermined toward the neighboring canthus with blunt scissors, the Graefe strabismus hook is inserted beneath the tendon, he latter lifted somewhat and severed from the sclera with blunt scissors as close as practicable to its attachment. The hook is reinserted to search for any uncut fibres of the tendon, which, if found, are also divided. Lastly, the conjunctival wound is closed by a fine suture. Von Arlt, of Vienna, made tenotomy after the manner of v. Graefe, save that he picked up the exposed tendon with the mouse- tooth or toothed fixation forceps, instead of with the hook, but used the hook in finding and severing remaining fibres. This surgeon was most circumspect in determining the position and extent of his incision through the membranes, choosing a small horizontal one over the center of the tendon for the lower degrees of strabismus and a freer vertical one over the insertion for the higher grades. If it was feared that the separation of the muscle from the globe was extreme, the aponeurosis of the tendon was included by the suture which finally closed the vertical wound; if not, only the conjunctiva was included. Critchett's Subconjunctival Tenotomy.—With strong mouse- tooth forceps, pressed firmly upon the globe over the lower border of the tendon, just behind its insertion, a horizontal fold of con- junctiva and underlying capsule of Tenon is picked up and cut crosswise with blunt-pointed scissors close to the forceps, if possible dividing both membranes at one snip, though it may be necessary to pick up the capsule in a similar fold and incise it separately. Thus a vertical wound opening is made. The lower border of the tendon is now brought to view by gently lifting with the forceps the fold of membrane still retained in its jaws and touching the wound with the sharpened point of a cotton sponge. A delicate, flattened Graefe hook is then inserted, point up, beneath the tendon, pushing it snug up to include all the fibres, the forceps relinquished by the left hand for the hook, which is slightly raised. One point of the delicate blunt-pointed scissors is passed beneath the tendon close to its attachment and the other beneath the conjunctiva, and the