RESECTION OF THE OUTER WALL OF THE ORBIT. 605 of the floor of the orbit, in addition to the outer wall, employing a tiny chain saw, starting it at the back and cutting forward by pulling. Others, again, have gone much further, making resections, definitive and temporary, of parts of the frontal, exposing the dura, disarticu- lating the malar, etc. Haab's criticism of this method is that it is getting outside the sphere of the ocular surgeon, while the simpler measure is well within it. Schuchardt and others have suggested forms of the saw and manners of sawing. Of course, to saw from behind forward, a perforation must be made through the coverings of the spheno-maxillary fissure through which to start the saw. This is the difficult and exacting part of it. Of the changes in the first incision, a noteworthy one is that of Parinaud and Roche. With the view of doing away with the con- spicuous scar left on the temple by the older method, these surgeons recommend a quadrilateral flap with its base directed forward. The incision begins at the outer extremity of the eye-brow, runs horizontally backward a distance of 5 centimeters, then vertically downward 5 centimeters, and, lastly, 5 centimeters horizontally forward. The skin covering the inclosed area is loosened to the base and turned over forward; after which the operation is pro- ceeded with as per Kronlein. Haab's objection to this method is on the score of possible interference with nutrition of the deeper flap containing the bone, hence complications in healing. Indications for Kronlein s operation are: 1. Retrobulbar tumors of the orbit, such as dumb-bell dermoid, cysts, etc., including cavernous angioma (Knapp1 and a few others). Sattler,2 of Leipsic, for example, and Golowin,3 each lias by this method actually ligated off and extirpated the affected vessels in a case of pulsating exophthalmos. 2. Tumors of the optic nerve and of its sheath. 3. Foreign bodies lying deep in the orbit, making their extraction from in front a menace to the soft structures, particularly those of considerable volume, or those that have become fast in the adjacent bones. 4. Phlegmon of the orbit, especially when there is, or is likely to be, an abscess at the apex, communicating with the posterior ethmoid 1 Knapp, Archives of Oph., vol. xxv. 1896. 2 Sattler, Graefe-Saemisch, vol. vi, chap. xi. 3 Golowin, Zeits. f. Augenh., iv, S. 194.