ACCIDENTS AND OTHER SEQUELS. I99 come under the head of a form of advancement, others constitute a class by themselves, and the surgeon must resort to special methods to meet the demands of the individual case. This class is charac- terized not only by exaggeration of the exophthalmos, retraction of the caruncle, etc., but by that of extent of adhesions and scar tissue as well. If one fears that it will be difficult to obtain a firm forward anchorage for his suture he wrould better weaken the opposing tendon by a large transverse buttonhole. Then comes the task of procuring the needed raw surface near the cornea with which the tissue to be advanced is to unite. In the worst cases this can be obtained only by a laborious dissection. This can best be accom- plished by the use of very small mouse-toothed forceps and scissors, beginning well back where the tissue is looser, and trying to open up a wide path toward the cornea in the horizontal meridian. If one encounters an island of scar so firmly incorporated with the sclera that it cannot be separated, it may be freshened with a small, very sharp, finely serrated curet. Now the muscle, or the remains of it, must be searched for. If nothing having the semblance of a tendon and aponeurosis can be found—if all is united in one mass with the conjunctiva—a sort of pyramidal flap, with its apex toward the cornea is formed by diverging incisions of the united membranes, putting the regulation advancement suture or sutures in near the apex, bringing the whole flap forward and securing it just as one would a tendon. In this way the deformities, at least, (and usually at most) can be corrected. Yet it is remarkable how much control is sometimes obtained by the reinstated muscle over the movement of the globe. Accidents and other sequels consequent upon advancement are, in many respects, identical with those attending tenotomy already given. Care must be exercised to prevent operating on the wrong eye, cutting or breaking the thread, etc. The thread should be braided, not twisted, and ought to be previously examined as to strength and evenness, as well as to see that there are no little breaks in its strands. The use of so-called self-threading needles is prejudicial since they are apt to cut and make weak places. The cutting out of the sutures can best be avoided by using thread of only medium fineness and by giving it the proper hold in the tissues. Manifestly one cannot depend upon the numbering printed or