2l8 OPERATIONS UPON THE LIDS. taken on the handles, so that the blades will not "buckle," and with one firm snip the cut is made. This should be from one to one and a half centimeters long, according to the demands of the case. Although the cut is usually made in a perfectly horizontal direction, it would seem that in many individuals the scar would conform better to the natural topography about the outer canthus if it were given a somewhat downward inclination. One should bear in mind that a part of the accessory lacrimal gland lies in this region and strive not to injure it wantonly. There will be some bleeding, but it usually ceases spontaneously. Second Step.—Division of the external canthal ligament.—The free border of the upper lid is grasped by the left thumb and index, pushed slightly up to open the spaces between the severed skin and conjunctiva, the small scissors, closed, are put into the upper opening to feel for the ligament. The lid is now pulled forward and toward the nose, so as to make the ligament taut, when the scissors are opened slightly, the blades are pushed up astride the ligament and it also is cut with a single snip. Some authors state that the conjunctiva is unavoidably incised in dividing the ligament; such is not the case, for with delicate scissors and a little care, neither the skin nor the conjunctiva need be wounded. If the snip is suc- cessful the lid at once gives way under thumb and finger. If it fails thus to yield, another and more careful effort must be made. The same procedure is repeated on the lower section of the ligament. Third Step.—Placing and tying the sutures.—An assistant opens wide the extended commissure. It will be observed that the cut in the skin is longer—often very much so—than that in the conjunctiva. Now, all the descriptions of the operation that I have ever read and all the many cuts that I have seen illustrative of it, teach that the angle of the conjunctival opening is joined to that of the skin. This is precisely what Agnew insisted should not be clone. And with good reasons, to wit, because of the inequality in the length of the angles alluded to, thus to unite them, means the obliteration of the external cul-de-sac; not only this, but the conjunctiva is so stretched to meet the skin at this point, that an unseemly bridle or band results that is particularly noticeable when the globe is in adduction. Instead, therefore, following Agnew, after picking up the conjunctival angle with the needle, it is carried outward as far as it