97 I ( iRCl l»S. if the latter is present. Indeed, these more savage instruments are only fitted for Capsule Forceps.—For the occasional thickened capsules, and for those of adherent lenses, a forceps is needed for tearing the membrane off and extracting it—arrachement. Those that bear the name of De Wecker serve the purpose well. They are some- thing betw een the ordinary back-tooth forceps and those exaggerated ones just mentioned in that their teeth occupy a very slight offset at he back of the jaws. This forceps can be made to do very well in place of the back- ooth forceps. Like all the small toothed forceps they must be closely watched to see that the teeth are neither broken off nor out of line with their notches. An important point in the selection of iris and capsule forceps, if not, indeed, as regards that of all the ophthalmic forceps, is to make sure that the springs by which they open are not too stiff. "In order to manipulate an instrument with the greatest delicacy and certainty, said manipulation must, like the simple hold between the lingers, call for the least possible force. In other words, the strength which we must exert to hold our iris forceps shut destroys just that much of the nicety and precision in handling the instru- ment and of the daintiness of touch. While insisting upon it that the springs be soft, let it not be understood that the branches, or members, themselves should be flexible. On the contrary, they must be firm and rigid. This principle is illustrated by examining certain forceps and noting that the extremities of their jaws open, instead of closing, when their (too weak) branches are pressed upon. Rotary Iris and Capsule Forceps.—To this class belong those of Liebreich and of Mathieu, and their advantages are explained in the chapter on "Operations Upon the Iris." Toilet Forceps.—For making the toilet of the eye after iridecto- mies and extractions the dressing forceps are not well adapted, being too straight and loo big. Hence, the small, curved toilet forceps of De Wecker, are recommended. This is nothing more nor less than ordinary iris forceps, deprived of their teeth and supplied, instead, with the fine crosswise roughening similar to the dressing forceps. Like it, too, there should be contact of the jaws for a short distance from the ends of the branches—say for about i mm. 7