14 PARA-OPERATIVE TECHNIC. Dressings.—The materials that compose modern eye-dressings are not of great variety or overnumerous, but their forms and modes of application, at the hands of the different individuals, are diverse as well as interesting. Relatively few seem to be so precise and exacting as a matter of such prime importance demands. If the surgeon himself is negligent and slovenly in this respect what can be expected of other attendants like internes and nurses ? Gauze.—This fabric does not enter so largely into the needs of the opthalmic surgeons as into the requirements of those who practise other branches of the art. It comes in sealed packages, supposedly ready for use, but it is well to sterilize it again if means are at hand for doing so. For the most part plain gauze—not impregnated with any drug—is employed. This should be of soft texture and highly absorbent. Borated gauze is interchangeable with the plain and stands sterilization perfectly. Certain of the impregnated gauzes, however, as the moist ones, lose their properties by the process and must be used directly from the can. Iodoform gauze is useful chiefly as a packing, e.g., in the form of tents for abscess cavities. Bichlorid gauze is apt to be irritating, especially to the skin of many patients. Cotton.—The quality of absorbent cotton as found on sale is an uncertain thing unless one knows and can obtain particular brands. The best cotton is white, clean, of long fibre, and is instantly absorbent. It comes neatly laminated, and with the great bulk of the fibres running lengthwise of the bolt or roll. A distinctive feature is its feel. It is clingy to the touch, and when rubbed between the fingers show great friction. Poor cotton is not white, not clean, is shoddy, or of short fibre, is irregularly laminated, and, because of the oil remaining in it, does not readily absorb liquids. To the touch it has a silky feel, and when rubbed between the fingers is slippery. Absorbent cotton is used either plain or borated. It cannot be trusted without being freshly sterilized. The roll of cotton is not made into pieces of appropriate size by cutting, but by pulling. When cut, the edges are too thick and abrupt. Bandages.—These are made of white flannel, gauze, muslin, or netting, cut into strips of suitable width and length. For a pressure bandage flannel is probably the most fitting fabric, because