475 INDICATIONS FOR ENUCLEATION. as admitting of a choice between enucleation and exenteration as the means of dealing with them. The inflammation having become thoroughly established in the sympathizing eye, while useful vision is still possessed by the exciting eye, then the question as to the- removal of the latter becomes a problem the solution of which must be left to those who have the case in charge, as it opens a field of discussion too wide to have a place here. With regard to Class c,, if the tumor is manifestly of insignificant proportions, expecially if its exact nature is not known beyond peradventure, it is true that the excision is not at once obligatory, and further developments, might be awaited and observed—indeed, in that event it would not really belong to this class. Prominent in Class (/ are those: eyes that are in a state of absolute glaucoma. It would be good practice to enucleate every one of these as soon as possible, lest hidden therein should be a dangerous sarcoma. This is particularly true when the other eye is free from signs of glaucoma and the subject is of middle age or older. To make iridectomy or any form of sclerotomy for the relief of the tension or pain, and with the view of "saving the eyeball," is worse than folly in these cases.- Aside from the hazard of a lurking tumor, such eyes are, as a rule, better out than in. Group 2. Elective Indications.—These have reference to eyes that may be regarded in the light of a menace, more or less imminent, to the well-being of their fellow, yet can be rendered impotent for harm by some other procedure, as, for example, the operation of exenteration, as well as by that of enucleation. They may be classified-thus: (a) Recent fresh, extensive injuries seriously involving the ciliary region. (b) Eyes blind from chronic inflammations of the uveal tract. (r) Phthisis bulbi, not extreme, with or without calcific or osseo- calcific degeneration of the choroid. ((/) Total extensive staphyloma of the cornea or of the globe. (e) Blind eyes containing inextricable foreign bodies. (/) Acute suppurative panophthalmitis. Remarks. Class a.—It is remarkable to what an extent the tunics of the globe may be wounded, even when the ciliary body is included