PARACENTESIS OF THE CORNEA. ishing, yet one shrinks from an iridectomy, and posterior sclerotomy is out of the question. As a tentative measure, one may make para- centesis. If the symptoms improve for a time, one is encouraged to essay the excision of iris. The Operation.—Narcosis is required only for highly inflamed and sensitive eyes, especially when the patient is shattered from suffering, and for small children. Where there is much softening of the cornea or tremendously high tension, conditions that would make squeezing of the eye dangerous, the blepharostat would better be omitted and the lids held apart by an aid with retractor or fingers. The best form of keratome is a small iridectomy knife, except there be extreme shallowness or obliteration of the anterior chamber, when a narrow Graefe cataract knife is preferable. The incision should be sufficiently peripheral to lie within the vascular zone of the cornea, but its position with regard to the circumference will be determined by circumstances. When blood or pus is to be evacuated, the proper point is downward. In other cases, as in glaucoma from a swollen lens, when it is possible a portion of the iris will have to be incised upward, and so on. The globe is steadied by fixation forceps, the point of the keratome is made to enter the anterior chamber just as in the incision for iridectomy. When the blade has been pushed far enough, the handle is tilted further backward to avoid wounding the lens during the escape of aqueous, and then turned slowly to one side so that the knife will pry open the cut and drain the anterior chamber. Just here is when the patient is apt to feel the greatest pain, sup- posedly from the contact of the sensitive iris with the cornea, and is liable to squeeze or move the head. It is for this reason and also to prevent prolapse of the iris, that the aqueous must not be allowed to gush out suddenly. The knife is slowly withdrawn, if need be extending the incision in its exit, as in iridectomy. If the Graefe knife is chosen, the incision is made by puncture and counter- puncture, as in extraction, though, of course, its extent is much less. The section is finished slowly. After this the spatula may be used to pry open the wound or, at least, to depress its posterior lip. If blood or pus is to be evacuated, it may be coagulated and refuse to come out with the aqueous. In this event an injection of i% warm salt solution by means of one of the syringes for lavage of the anterior