THE BEARD ADVANCEMENT OPERATION. I S I reached opposite the vertical meridian of the cornea, or beyond, and fully four to five millimeters from the limbus, where the needle is brought out. The lines of anchorage should be divergent, not horizontal. Merely placing the suture beneath the mem- branous covering of the globe will not suffice; a much firmer support is required. Notwithstanding the sharpness of the needles, no little exertion is needed to force them through the dense fibrous tissue, and in doing so the globe must be steadied. To grasp the conjunctiva and capsule, to this end, will not do, as these membranes will tear; so I take hold with strong broad-jawed forceps of the tendon at its insertion, even including the hook as held by the assistant. Precisely the same is done by the other needle below. Now, obviously, if the ends of the thread were here tied, the suture would lie across the cornea; instead, however, the upper needle is again placed in the holder and passed from behind, under the loop or stitch that lies vertically on the tendon (see Fig. 74), and one must be quite sure that the needle passes under the thread, and not through, even the least strand or fibre of it; for this would cause a snarl in drawing up the suture, and do away with one great feature of this operation—that of a perfect sliding suture. To make sure, we had better include a little of the tendon here, or else leave the loop standing up a little, so that we may see clearly what we are doing. It is better to make an invariable rule of using the upper thread for this step—as, in the first place, the knot does not lie beneath the sensitive upper lid, and, in the second, the removal of the suture is made simpler and easier. One now proceeds to divide the tendon. The thread is gotten out of the way of the scissors; if need be, held out of the way by an assistant with a strabismus hook; for to cut it in two were awkward in the extreme. The hook beneath the tendon is taken by the operator, and the tendon is completely severed; next, the stump of tendon at its insertion is seized by the forceps and cut off even with the sclera. The latter step serves two very important purposes—it removes an obstacle to the sliding forward of the tendon, and prevents an unsightly lump at the site of the operation. Then, as to the tying and tightening of the suture, several points must be observed. One should have his assistant rotate the eye toward the operated muscle by means of fixation forceps. It is essential that the loop across the tendon