5°9 IMMEDIATE ACCIDENTS, ETC. forceps-scissors—both are masters in their art and wholly worthy of emulation. 16. Accident.—Erratic behavior of the lens. Cataracts with small, hard, or discoid nuclei, especially those with degenerated liquid cortex and frail zonules or shrunken lenses, are apt to prove capricious when we try to drive them out. One of their peculi- arities is to become agglutinated to the posterior surface of the cornea, as if by suction, and so long as the lower spoon is pressed below the cornea, the lens will not budge. If the condition be not recognized at once and tactics changed, a gush of vitreous is sure to follow. The remedy is merely to slide the spoon up onto the cornea, dislodge the cataract, and push it out. Another freak of such cataracts is to slip up behind the iris, or even where iridectomy has been made the upper edge of the lens may lodge behind the incision. This, too, exposes to turning over of the lens and vitreous escape. The remedy which has always served the writer in this emergency is to push the crystalline down by means of the little iris spatula, then to proceed with the delivery in the regular way. Others favor the cystotome, but the spatula is easier of insertion and quite effectual. Failing with this, the open sharp hook is the thing. Again, there is a class of pasty, sticky cataracts that, in spite of an ample incision, will hang and choke the opening, and if urged too strongly may pop out suddenly, entraining loss of vitreous. The remedy is, while the operator applies just enough force to hold the mass well up, for a handy assistant to dig the cystotome or sharp hook into the edge and deliver it by a sort of sidewise rolling motion. Or the operator himself may do this with the edge of one spoon while holding the lens up by pressure with the other. It only remains in this connection to discuss that rather startling vagary, The Sinking of the Cataract into the Vitreous.—Fortunately, a very rare complication, but, when met, the operator must be prompt to act or all is lost. I have seen one of the most skilled and tact- ful ophthalmic surgeons the world has ever produced fail utterly to deliver such a recalcitrant lens, and have seen others, almost as proficient, reduce the globe to a hopeless wreck when confronted with the accident. One of them placed the left thumb behind the