140 OPERATIONS UPON THE APPENDAGES OF THE EYE. by the writer, preparatory to operations that necessitate opening of the eyeball is, perhaps, next to the radical procedure of absolute removal of the sac and the fiery obliteration of the canaliculi, the best means of preventing infection from the lacrimal canal. Some operators advise tying of each canaliculus separately, but a single ligature applied to both is better. It is advisable, for example, when extraction is to be made and there exists a state of the tear passage that would endanger the result and which, from lack of time, the patient's consent, or other cause, it would be impracticable to remove. The time for the operation is the moment preceding the extraction, and it is performed in the following manner: the contents of the sac and canaliculi are thoroughly expressed. The canal may be syringed with a mild antiseptic wash. Wood, of Chicago, mentions having previously injected a solution of argyrol, letting remain what would. Two No. i Bowman probes are passed into the sac—one through the upper, the other through the lower canaliculus—and held there by an assistant, as guides. They are held somewhat apart, so as to mark the outermost bounds of the canal above and below. A half-curved needle of small dimensions, armed with No. 2 or 3 silk thread is passed in just below the lower probe, and close to the inner canthus, deep enough to clear the union of the canaliculi at the back, and out just above the upper probe, and securely tied. The fibres of the tarsal ligament are necessarily included, and so much the better, as they assist in the compression of the canal. Braided silk thread, boiled in paraffin, makes a more suitable ligature than cat- or silkworm gut, as it is not so harsh and irritating to the skin and does not work loose. It is best not to leave it double, i.e., both strands in unless it is doubled and twisted after having been put through the eye of the needle. The ligature may be removed in four or five days or after sufficient healing of the corneal section. If there is any resulting stenosis of the canal, which is not likely, it can be relieved afterward by dilating the punctum and passing a small, olive-tipped probe. Electrolysis of the Nasal Duct.—We all have cases of epiphora in which the chief or sole obstruction to drainage is an obstinate stenosis of the bony portion of the canal. Usually, by applying great force, a small probe will pass into the nose, but each time it is almost like making an opening through bony tissue. Stricturotomy