56 INSTRUMENTS AND THEIR MANAGEMENT. what our countrymen have done in the line of surgical instruments for the eye specialist. Of the myriad instruments that have been conceived as applicable to ocular surgery, the vast majority have not stood the test of time; and it is, after all, remarkable how few really are necessary or desirable. Every surgeon and every maker of surgical instruments, even down to every salesman, has his own ideas on that point. The writer has great respect for the pecu- liar notions of others, especially, in this instance, if they be those of a confrere. So long as his work comes up to the standard, no matter how peculiar his notions, all honor to him. But his imple- ments may not be above criticism. As to the maker, he is prone to regard the matter solely from a mechanical standpoint, without taking into consideration the human element that figures so largely in the material upon which the instruments in question are employed. With regard to the salesman—well, his business is to sell; and as a proof that he fully understands his business, witness the manner in which he beguiles the artless and aspiring tyro into stocking himself up with a lot of junk. The first great requisite in any mechanical contrivance is efficiency, but the maximum of efficiency should be attained along with the maximum of simplicity. And surgical instruments are, perhaps, peculiar in demanding the most rigid enforcement of this law. These are the key-notes Close after them come such other at- tributes as grace of outline, delicacy of parts, and elegance of finish. They should be simple in the sense of being uncomplicated, as also in that of being plain. These properties are conducive to both cleanliness and dexterity—hence, to safety and success. They should be as light as is consistent with adequate strength, which is also an advantage in their use; hence, the need of delicacy of parts. And they should be pleasing to the eye—of their possessor, at least. This were argument enough for the grace of outline and the elegance of finish; but there are decidedly practical reasons also. One is actually capable of better effort when there is present a conscious pride in his means; again, the smoother and truer and brighter the surface, the easier to maintain, therefore, the demand for attractiveness. Another most excellent thing in connection with the operative equipment—especially of the oculist—is a certain uniformity, or