i78 OPERATIONS UPON THE EXTRINSIC MUSCLES. capsule, and muscle, and brought out at the under side of the tendon. It is again passed through muscle, capsule and conjunctiva, and brought out at B. The bite of the thread thus encloses about the lower fourth of the muscle with its tendinous expansion, capsule, and conjunctiva. The other needle is similarly entered at A', passed through conjunctiva, capsule, and tendon, and brought out at the under side. It is then again entered beneath the tendon and brought out through the conjunctiva at B', this bite enclosing the upper fourth of the tendon. Both sutures are inserted, before proceeding further, in order that they may be symmetrically placed. The ends of the thread from A' and B' are then knotted tightly at C. The end bearing the needle is then entered at D, passed through con- junctiva, capsule, and tendon, and carried beneath the lower blade of the Prince forceps nearly to the corneal margin. The needle is here passed through the tough circumcorneal fibrous tissue and brought out at G'. The two ends of thread are then loosely tied, with a single hitch, at H. The first suture is then similarly com- pleted. The anterior part of the tendon, capsule, and conjunctiva are then removed by the scissors just behind where they are grasped by the forceps. The gap is then closed by tightly tying each suture at H H, so that the cut end of the tendon is brought nearly up to the corneal margin at G G'. The longitudinal position on the muscle of the knotted loops A, B and C, and A', B', and C varies according to the degree of rotation desired. The hold on the tendon in this operation afforded by the knotted arrangement of the sutures insures extraordinary solidity, but it is a question whether or not a certain amount of necrosis would not ensue from strangulation. As for the rest, the anchorage near the cornea, which is of even greater importance, is relatively slight—much more so than in either the Prince or the Verhoeff operations. Moreover, the operation would seem to be needlessly complex. The Beard Advancement Operation (Figs. 74 and 75).—The first published account of this procedure appeared in the A merican Journal of Ophthalmology for March, 1889. Within the past three or four years several articles in the ophthalmic literature of Great Britain and the continent of Europe have been brought to my no- tice, in which the writers told of original methods very similar to, and