TENDON ADVANCEMENT. 1 Lit. Verzeichniss, No. 6, p. 415. J73 the corneal limbus above, while the other is passed similarly below, the muscular plane. The assistant grasps the eyeball over the antagonistic muscle with a fixation forceps and rotates it toward the muscle to be advanced. Thus the operator can tie both sutures without much traction on the enclosed tissues. It is advisable to half tie both sutures before completely tying one. Thus the pre- ponderance of the first suture over the second is avoided. To prevent confusion, white silk is used for one and black silk for the other suture. The muscle, with its covering conjunctiva, not un- frequently rests upon the corneal margin, where, of course, it cannot insert. If the advanced piece should encroach far on the cornea, it may be divided by a cut into two halves, as I have done for years, and both halves will then lie at the corneal margin. Generally the advanced muscle retracts enough to furnish a more favorable insertion. After the FlG- 68.—Weber's single suture operation. sutures are tied, the eyes are irrigated with an aseptic solution and both are bandaged. In con- vergent squint the effect of the operation is increased by paralysis of accommodation. Therefore atropin is instilled into both eyes as long as there is any tendency to convergence. Exclusion of light, rest, and occlusion of the eyes have the same effect. The binocular bandage remains at least five days, for the healing of the wound. In convergent squint it is reapplied for several days more for the above reasons. Then it is replaced by correcting convex glasses. The sutures need hardly ever be removed before the sixth or seventh day. In divergent squint, accommodation and convergence assist the operation. As soon as the advanced muscles are firmly attached, one eye is left free. After one or two weeks the methodical exercise of convergence may be commenced." The father of the single-suture advancement was Adolf Weber,1 of Darmstadt, who, in 1873, contrived an ingenious though impracti- cable procedure (Fig. 68). After uncovering, picking up, and dividing