602 OPERATIONS UPON THE ORBIT. The whole length of the cut, in adults, would be about 8 cent meters. It is important that it be not too small, also that its course be mapped out with great precision. The periosteum is now incised along the orbital rim, lifted up with a good sharp elevator, and loosened all along the outer wall of the orbit. An assistant holds the contents of the orbit out of the way. The loosening is continued, working from above downward, till the spheno-maxillary fissure is reached. This marks the location of the lower edge of the wedge of bone that is to be removed. It has been generally recommended to stick the elevator or a probe in here to indicate the apex of the wedge— Knapp advises against it, as encouraging deep infection. Besides, instead of the apex of the wedge being at the forward end of the spheno-maxillary fissure, it is further back or nearly midway of the fissure. Second Step.—This is the cutting of the bone, and is accom- plished with the aid of sharp, flat chisels, which are sometimes sup- plemented by delicate saws, such as band, wire, chain, or electro- motive circular. Here an assistant may hold an instrument at the point that denotes where the two converging bone cuts are to join. This will be, as before intimated, well toward the middle of the spheno-maxillary fissure. The fissure is located by the leaving off of hard bone at that place, and by the peculiar tense, yet elastic, mem- brane that is stretched across it. The base of the wedge comprises the bridge of strong bone between the orbit and the zygomatic fossa at the outer rim of the orbit (Fig. 275). It extends from just above the frontomalar suture downward to a point nearly on a level with the lower orbital rim, or a distance of about 3 centimeters. The length of the wedge is about 4 centimeters. For severing the heavier bone, viz., the angular process of the frontal and the orbital process of the malar, some kind of saw—Gigli's, for example—would be a most fit- ting instrument, as it would not only make the task an easier one, but it would favor the subsequent coaptation and healing, whereas, to do it with a chisel, necessitates the taking out of a chipping space. The upper bone cut is made first, working with the chisel from be- fore backward. The cut extends from above the junction of the malar and the frontal, backward and downward at an angle of about 45 degrees, to the point indicated along the spheno-maxillary fissure. When working in the thin bone, it is best to work rather