403 POSTERIOR SCLEROTOMY. where possible, and 1 drop of cocain solution instilled. The incision is made as for ordinary iridectomy, beginning 1 mm. behind the limbus, but with that surgeon's own stop-knife. The aqueous is evacuated slowly. A special forceps is introduced. When the closed jaws are seen 2 mm. from the base of the cornea, they are opened, the iris is caught near the periphery, and the forceps pushed downward, hugging the posterior surface of the cornea, till the iris is torn for a distance of 6 to 8 mm. from its fastening. The forceps is now withdrawn, but in doing so one must not forget that the jaws must be first opened. Galezowski,1 too, has furnished a measure—crucial sclerotomy ■—and a special keratome with which to make it. The blade of the instrument is lanceolate, measuring 3 mm. at its greatest width by about 2 centimeters in length, and is slightly curved on the flat. It is put through the anterior chamber twice, convexity toward the iris, so as to incise the sclera at the four cardinal points. Thus is obtained the maximum of severance (12 to 14 mm.), with the minimum of risk. The second passage of the knife can hardly be an easy one. The alleged indications for anterior sclerotomy are: (a) Glaucoma simplex, especially as a tentative measure. , (b) As a preparatory step to iridectomy when T is high and anterior chamber obliterated. .(c) Congenital glaucoma, or hydrophthalmus. ((/) For relief of pain in hemorrhagic and absolute glaucoma. (e) For relapsing glaucoma after iridectomy. As a matter of fact, whatever of benefit resulted was probably due to the paracentesis rather than to the character of the incision, and the measure in all its forms has practically been abandoned. Yet there was a time, a few years after De Wecker, with character- istic zeal, took the matter up, that it had a veritable boom, and bade fair to supersede the operation of iridectomy as a cure for glaucoma. POSTERIOR SCLEROTOMY. SCLERAL PUNCTION. PARACENTESIS SCLERA. Incisions of the posterior segment of the sclera were made early in the century, James Ware, of London, having practised it for 1 Congr. de chir., Paris, 1898, p. 175.