OPERATIONS UPON THE CONJUNCTIVA. 362 and radium. Like caustics, they hardly have a place in this treatise, and the reader is referred for details of their management to other sources. Suffice it to state that none but those thoroughly con- versant with the properties of these subtle things should attempt to avail themselves of their virtues, for they are as potent for evil as for good. 3. OPERATIVE MEASURES. (e) Curettage.—Along with this goes scarification, and both are but phases of primitive methods, such as pricking, scratching, and scraping. The Arabian surgeons Isaac Judeus and Rhazes, a thousand years ago, recommended the sharp spoon for getting rid of trachomatous follicles. Its use was again brought to the front by Bardenheuer, of Cologne, in 1877. The best known and most approved method of employing it is that of Sattler, of Leipsig. After incising each individual follicle, this surgeon proceeded to lade out its contents with a very small curet. Like cauterism, it is not adapted to voluminous infiltrations because of its tediousness and the increased cicatrization that it causes. Unlike it, however, it is not suited to the earliest stages, but to the scattering granula- tions that have escaped other kinds of treatment. (/) Excision.—The fornices, especially the upper, are the store houses or reserve stations of the trachomatous infection. And, as regards resistance to the attacks of any ordinary antagonist, the deeper recesses of the upper fornix are veritable strongholds. They often successfully resist all medical and mechanical treatment. It is from these that start the relapses that have made the han- dling of these cases so discouraging. Not only does the upper fornix afford the best harbor for the poisonous germs, but the best soil as well. So that, when cured cases are again exposed to a trachomatous environment, the upper fornix has been oftenest the site of a reinfection. Knowing these things doubtless, as well as the fact that the cutting out of a fold of swollen or infiltrated conjunctiva is often mentioned in the Hippocration and other old medical writings, may have been the motive behind the active recourse to surgery in fighting the tremendous epidemic of trachoma that in Europe followed the Wars of the Empire. It is certain that these