THE REMOVAL OF FOREIGN BODIES. 654 by a rubber cap. The operator grasps the head with both hands, and directs the patient to relax his neck, and not to resist motions im- parted by the hands (Fig. 295). The eye is approached to the tip in such a way that the attractive force will be exactly in line with the track of the foreign body. If no rheostat is employed, the eye is brought within 4 or 5 inches of the magnet; when the rheostat is used, the eye is brought up till its wound is about in contact with the tip, and the aid at the rheostat is told to turn on a few amperes—the milder the draw with which the foreign body comes, the better. If here is no result, the current is turned on or the eye approached more and more, till the full capaci y of the magnet is reached. There still being no result, one proceeds to jerk at the foreign body by making and breaking the current in quick succession; and, failing in this, sidewise pulls are given to loosen the metal. Should the patient wince or speak of pain in the eye, the pull is at once changed to the original direction. When the foreign body presents at the opening its delivery may have to be helped by separating the lips or with the forceps. A sharp lookout is kept for the appearance of the foreign body, especially for a very minute one that may have attached itself to the tip of the magnet, so as not to drop and lose it by breaking the circuit. All these procedures having proved fruitless, one is not justified is giving up completely, but should, after a wait of some hours or a day, make a second effort; even after that, a third. Haab relates instances where he made trials on several clays in succession, then succeeded. Between whiles, a great deal might be gained by localization. If the scleral route is decided upon as the way out for the foreign body, irrespective of the preexistence of a scleral wound, the steps are about the same as those detailed for the small magnet, except that no sort of extension point is inserted at the opening. With proper localization and a powerful magnet, such as the giant is supposed to be, contact of the tip with the outer lips of the incision should be the limit. Drawing the Foreign Body from the Vitreous into the Anter or Chamber.—When no scleral opening exists, and the for- eign body is not too large, the stronger partisans of the giant magnet advocate this, then extracting through a corneal incision rather than removal directly from the vitreous by means of a scleral in-