OPERATIONS FOR PTOSIS. 244 muscle are transplanted. The frontalis owes its power of lifting the eyebrow to the fact that its attachment is essentially to the skin; hence, procedures that call for deep or extensive incisions and other traumatism in the superciliary region must result in scars that inevitably limit the natural movement of the parts. Then, too, these engrafted fragments will atrophy, and the effect obtained will diminish with the lapse of time. The palpebro-frontal ligaments are peculiarly suited to cases in which both the levator and the superior rectus are powerless. In the mode of Pagenstecher, of gradually tightening ligatures, the object was the coupling of the lid to the frontalis by means of cicatricial cords, and looked to a determinate result through a most precarious and irregular medium, viz., the exciting of an inflammatory or suppurative process. In the procedure of Eversbusch and his followers the object sought is the shortening or advancement of the levator, and its futility as a systematic, all-around process would appear to lie in the fact that the muscle concerned is, in the great majority of cases, either absolutely inert or of extremely insignificant force. While, therefore, the sphere of these measures is thus limited, they are theoretically suit- able only for a certain small number of cases in which the levator is fairly potent, as in trachomatous ptosis. But, as a matter of fact, they have a much wider range of usefulness, of which more anon. The Motais-Parinaud measures are happily imagined and rest upon a physiologic as well as a scientific basis. Yet they depend for their success upon the integrity of the superior rectus; and in a large percentage of cases of ptosis there is paralysis or marked insufficiency of the muscle. Theoretically considered, the very pro- nounced drawing forward of the superior rectus that would be req- uisite for the correction of an extreme ptosis by these methods would result in undue tension diplopia and, possibly, vertical squint. They would find their best application, then, to the lower grades of ptosis in which the superior rectus is of normal strength. According to Terson,1 of the considerable number of operations of this kind that have been recently performed, some have been followed by good results, and others not only by failure, but by corneal complications—the latter even leading to anterior staphy- loma. Moreover, the eye is said to be more prone to remain open 1 Encyclopedic Francaise d'ophtalmologie, vol. v, p. 498, 1906.