4i8 OPERATIONS UPON" THE GLOBE. were done to-day, the scleral opening would doubtless be closed, at least partially, by suturing. Amputation of the Posterior Segment of the Globe.—Nicati,1 performs this operation as follows: A horizontal (or vertical) in- cision is made into the conjunctiva on the inner side of the globe. The internus is seized, divided through its tendon, and guarded by a catgut suture, which is passed through the tendon and the con- junctiva. The capsule is separated above and below and the optic nerve is sectioned in the ordinary manner. The posterior pole of the eyeball is caught by a tenaculum and drawn forward. The obliques are detached from it and it is drawn through the con- junctival opening, after which the posterior portion of the globe is exsected up to the insertions of the rectus muscles. The tendon of the adductor is secured to its stump, and the conjunctival opening is closed. An accumulation of blood behind forces the cornea forward, but this is removed by compression and absorption. Nicati claims that the convalescence is more rapid than after enucleation, and the results are an excellent stump with the conjunctiva and cornea entire. He asserts, also, that sympathetic ophthalmia is avoided, but th s must be open to question, seeing that there is no provision for the removal of the anterior portion of the uvea. Moreover, the operation is difficult, and involves dangers of deep infection not in- curred in those previously described. None of these operations possess that virtue, dear to the heart of the pathologist, of preserving a perfect specimen for the laboratory as does enucleation. OPERATIONS ON THE IRIS. IRIDOTOMY—IRITOMY. This has for its object the making of an opening or pupil in an otherwise imperforate iris by means of a simple incision, and of the several operations made upon this membrane it is the oldest. The idea originated with Thomas Woolhouse,2 of London, who pro- posed, in case of loss of sight from posterior synechia, to tear the iris asunder from behind, with a needle entered through the sclera as 1 Archives d'ophthalmologie, June, 1903. 2 Exper. de differentes oper. aux yeux, Paris, 17 11.