OPERATIONS UPON THE GLOBE. 472 of the globe and convert the whole orbit into an enormous hematoma. So tense can the tissues become from this cause as to result in necrosis of the lids. Secondly, guard against shoving the blades of the scissors too far astride the nerve, thus including the nasofrontal artery; and also against opening the blades too wide and making the section to comprehend large branches of the ophthalmic vein that might be otherwise avoided. Inexperienced operators are too prone to grow flustered at this stage of an enucleation and to poke and haggle aimlessly, deep in the orbit, provoking needless hemor- rhage. If the outward escape of blood from the empty eye-cup is excessive or prolonged, it is best to tampon the cavity with wet (sublimate) absorbent cotton, and over all put a compressive bandage. This, be it observed, is but temporary, i.e., to be kept in .place only until the bleeding ceases, when it is to be removed, the tampon taken out, the cavity washed, the conjunctival opening neatly arranged, the lids closed and the dressing applied in the regulation way. No foreign substance, such as cotton or sponge, must ever be left in the open wound long enough to become ad- herent. This can occur in a comparatively few hours and can prove extremely vexatious. It is rarely, indeed, that more strenuous measures are called for, such as the application of sesqui-chlorid of iron, ligation, or the Paquelin cautery, in dealing with the hemorrhage. 3. Leaving Part of an Ocular Tumor in the Orbit.—If, upon the removal of an eye for an intraocular tumor, it is discovered that the growth has become extraocular, and there is evidence that any portion remains behind, it must be sought at once and scrupulously excised. The same also as regards any infiltration of the optic nerve by a neoplasm. 4. If the Globe be too large to Pass Through the Palpebral Fissure.—The remedy lies in a free external canthotomy. As soon as the enucleation is completed, the divided conjunctiva and the skin are to be separately sutured so as to restore them to their normal condition. 5. Operating Upon the Wrong Eye.—That this most deplorable accident is not beyond the realm of the possible has been abundantly proven, and that by more than a single instance. Although one of the victims thereof may be terribly culpable, they are both deserving