PARA-OPERATIVE TECHNIC. 52 the brachial artery on the outer side and also from the internal cutaneous nerve on the inner side. The first is separated from the basilic vein only by the semilunar fascia of the biceps tendon, and may be located by its pulsation, and the second lies on top of the vein, just where it joins the common ulnar vein. Blood will probably flow from the wound in a full stream; but if it does not, bleeding may be promoted by alternately opening and closing the hand. The blood should be collected in a graduated bowl, so as to estimate the amount withdrawn. Ten to twenty ounces will be necessary. It is best to have a sphygmomanometer attached to the opposite arm so as to measure the blood-pressure from minute to minute. The pulse will also indicate when the req- uisite effect has been produced. When this is accomplished apply a dry aseptic compress, and secure this by a figure-of-8 bandage around the elbow, and place the arm at rest until the wound is healed. Occasionally neuralgic pain is caused by the implication of some of the fibres of the internal cutaneous nerve in the cicatrix. Local blood-letting, as practised by the eye specialist, consists in extracting quanti- ties of blood, varying in amount from 1/2 oz. to 2 oz., from a limited area external to the outer canthus by means of leeching. The leech may be natural or artificial. The best natural leech is the Scandinavian variety, which is to be had in most of the larger pharmacies. Each one is capable of drawing nearly 1/2 ounce of blood before becoming gorged and letting go. Two of them are sufficient, for if it is desirable to abstract more than 1 oz. one may increase the quantity to the proper measure by encouraging the after-bleeding. This will, in many instances, continue till made to stop, which is easily accomplished by holding a tiny bit of absorbent cotton tightly on the bite with the finger. Fig. 31. r, Opening in median basilic vein. 2, Median cephalic vein. 3, Median vein. 4, Basilic vein. 5, Internal cutaneous nerve. 6, Brachial artery. Only the semilunar fascia of the biceps separates median basilic vein from brachial artery.