Di. vn \< ( 11 > i n'ts. i ic. more probable, but one's grip of the forceps is apt unconsciously to relax and leave the globe free to turn. To insure firmness, the bite of the forceps should include the episcleral tissue. S. Accident.—Rising oj the iris in front oj the edge of the knife. Preventive.—Attention to fixation forceps. Avoidance of all unnecessary alterations in the cutting plane which pry open the incision and spill the aqueous. See to it at the time of making puncture and counterpuncture that the blade lies flat upon the iris, as to turn the edge backward, risks to engage that membrane. Remedy.—Seeing that the iris is overlapping the knife, some- times a slight turning forward of the edge or lightly lifting the entire instrument will free it, albeit the first maneuver causes the incision to end somewhat further within the limbus than was intended. If these fail, nothing is left but to cut boldly ahead as if nothing were n the way. The result may be a buttonhole, a clean coloboma, or some irregular form of iridectomy. In any case make sure that there remains neither pupillary bridge nor dangling fragment, before proceeding with the operation. It is not humiliating for a surgeon to confess that he does not always accomplish just what he plans or desires in this operation, whatever his skill and experience. In this connection, for example, an exceedingly shallow anterior chamber may thwart the making of a classic incision. Again, an unruly or restive patient may baffle the most practised hand. o. Accident.—Splitting of the cornea. The best form of cor- neal incision has already, to a certain extent, been dwelt upon. Suffice it here to reiterate that the best apposition is obtained and the kindliest healing assured where the outer and inner wound opening are not widely separated ami where the summit of the incision is neither very far within the limbus nor decidedly back of it. Those who have not the good fortune to operate frequently for cataract are prone to magnify the snares and pitfalls, hence, in making the puncture, dreading to become entangled in the iris, they depress the handle of the knife too soon ami, in pushing the point further, they observe a dimple appear in the cornea over the blade and then realize that they are splitting that membrane. Remedy.—Since the anterior chamber has not been entered, withdraw the knife completely and begin over.