202 OPERATIONS UPON THE EXTRINSIC MUSCLES. Muscle- ~tyj7777y>///// W////////A be reckoned upon to give the greatest and best effect ? For it must be remembered that permanent over-effects, or secondary squints, do not occur after advancement operations except where too much tenotomy has accompanied the operation. Two little effect, even after both eyes have been operated, is frequent. Moreover, to get very decided permanent effect one must strive for yet more decided primary effect, i.e., over-effect; for some dropping back of the tendon is inevitable. As to the degree of primary effect, one must be guided by his judgment —knowing, as he ought, the angle of the squint and other peculiarities of the case in hand. In divergent and paralytic squint, it goes without say- ing that the over-effect must be specially pro- nounced. The forms of advancement that will give the maximum turning of the globe with the minimum resection or obliteration of tendon are those whose sutures begin to take their proximal anchorage beyond the nearer vertical tangent of the cornea (Fig. 85). The anchorage must be beyond the tangent; it will not do to be merely even with it. This is not to imply that those methods wherein said anchorage is between the cornea and the operated muscle are necessarily inferior. Doubtless there are good measures and bad ones in both classes. Given an equally good one on either side, it becomes simply a question as to whether or not one wishes to in- crease the turning of the globe at the expense of the tendon. Given two equally good measures in either class, it becomes largely a question as to which is simpler. From reading the descriptions one would conclude that there are needlessly complicated procedures in all the classes,* but descriptions are apt to be misleading in this respect. Most all the single suture advancement operations have the merit of drawing the muscle straight forward. This is not true, Fig. 85.—Anchorage obtained in the spaces a and b, i e., on the corneal side of the nearer vertical tangent of the limbus, affords a more positive advancement than one obtained in the space c.