538 EXTRACTION OF CATARACT. If, after all, the incision seems inadequate, it can be enlarged with scissors or blunt-curved knife. That these, or one of them, are at hand, ready prepared and extra sharp, goes without saying. If a conjunctival flap is desired, it may be first fashioned with forceps and scissors, then turned down, over the cornea, and the keratome incision proceeded with. Shrunken, adherent, and dense capsular are several qualities often found in a single cataract. They are most frequently met with in old traumatic cataracts, particularly those that have been at some time attended with partial absorption or inflammatory proc- esses, and are characterized by calcific and connective-tissue degeneration. Not unlike these, in many respects, are the shriveled and generally anomalous varieties of congenital cataract. These and the dislocated cataracts, in short, all that are not best dealt with by the flap operations, previously described, or by discission, are proper subjects for extraction with keratome incision. In but few is the use of the cystotome indicated. In that form where there is considerable posterior synechia with dense anterior capsular opacity—which makes the plucking out of the latter with the back-tooth forceps impracticable—it is best to make preliminary iridectomy. This will expose a greater area, wherein, when it comes to the extraction, a fair and sufficient capsulotomy can be made and the lens expelled in the regular manner. A subsequent discission of the thick membranous cataract which is left behind is usually sufficient to establish a good pupil. In the event of dense anterior capsular cataract without a great deal of posterior synechia, with- drawal with the capsule forceps is a good procedure. It may happen that the lens will come out with it—so much the better; but it is well to watch closely and be prepared for this contingency Whenever preferable, from inability to dilate the pupil or any cause, to make iridectomy in these peculiar cases, the preliminary is the best. There will then be no blood in the anterior chamber to hamper the extraction, the degree of traumatism will be less and, moreover, one learns something of the character of the patient before reaching the more critical operation of extraction. An upward iridectomy and extraction are preferable, though the position of the least number of iris adhesions or of a dislocated lens will sometimes furnish reasons for departing from the rule. In all save