167 ACCIDENTS AND COMPLICATIONS. [. Retraction of the caruncle, leaving only a dark hole where this little body should be. 2. Lack of motility of the globe in the direction of the operated muscle. 3. Exophthalmos, with its attendant widening of the palpebral fissure, or pro ptosis. 4. Secondary squint,or the ultimate deviation of the globe in the contrary direction to that for which the tenotomy was made. Knowing the cause, the preventive is obvious and readily avail- able; yet, having once occurred, the remedy, whilst it may be quite manifest, is not so easy of application. To my mind the proper thing to do, whether secondary strabismus exists or not, is to try to restore the relation of the muscle to the globe, even, if need be, at the cost of re-establishing the original squint at the same time. This would be a big choice of the two evils and could then be dealt with more intelligently and scientifically. To widen the palpebral fissure of the other eye for the proptosis, for example, as has been recommended, and even practised, is preposterous. If, on the oilier hand, one is at once aware of having °;one too far in any direction, he ought, then and there, to make an effort to set matters aright. If, for instance, he thinks the capsule has been too greatly pushed back, or too freely opened, or knows that the tendon had been too extensively divided, or that the extreme lateral fibres have been cut on one or both sides, a small, absorbable suture should be so put in as to correct the error. Even after the lapse of two or three clays, if it is evident that a blunder has been made along this line, it is not too late to try to rectify the consequences; for, while union may be firm, there being no scar tissue as yet, the parts may be still separated without difficulty. Aside from the bad results of a com- plete tenotomy may be mentioned those of extensive incisions in the conjunctiva and in Tenon's capsule. This is especially true if they are made in the vertical sense. This alone leads to retraction of the caruncle, slow healing, extensive adhesions, granulomata, and other complications. Whether or not one chooses the better direction for these incisions, i.e., the horizontal, he should see to it that there is not undue gaping of the cut edges of the membranes. If exuberant granulations spring up, or a polyp occurs, at the site