OPERATIONS UPON THE GLOBE. 382 more responsive to treatment and the patient more comfortable. Under these conditions the operation would need to be performed under narcosis. There is another class of cases of uveitis, mostly chronic, characterized by descemetitis, increased depth of anterior chamber, cloudiness of vitreous, recurrent intraocular hemorrhages (or not), and, rarely, notable disproportion between the amblyopia and any apparent cause for it. These, too, are sometimes helped by paracentesis; and, as they are among the most tedious and trying of all our charges, and the operation is, to say the least, harmless, one is justified in trying it. 4. In ulceration of the cornea that threatens to perforate, whether there is hypopyon or not. Apropos of the last, before the time when the profession had learned to rely upon the efficacy of antiseptic treatment for these infectious conditions, it was the rule to make paracentesis in cases of hypopyon. Consequently, eye after eye was lost. This was true even in the earlier period of antiseptic medicine, when the case was having this treatment in addition. At present, eye after eye is saved by disregarding the hypopyon, using copious irrigation with mild antiseptics, atropin, and, above all, the roller bandage. Paracentesis in any form, according to the Saemisch or otherwise, has largely given way to the non-operative treatment. 5. In Conical Cornea.—(See section on Keratoconas.) 6. In Embolism and Thrombosis of the Retinal Vessels.— Paracentesis of the cornea has been suggested as an adjunct to massage. One would hesitate before making the operation, how- ever, in cases of advanced arteriosclerosis. It would seem from the researches of Fuchs,1 relative to the nature of panophthalmitis and the course of the infection therein, that paracentesis may find an extension of its sphere in helping to save from enucleation some of the eyes thus afflicted. Von Graefe,2 proposed punction of the anterior chamber in glau- coma simplex, as a sort of guide as to whether or not an iridectomy would^ prove beneficial. One is often put in a quandary when dealing with this disease. For example, in spite of other means of treatment the sight is fast going and the fields rapidly dimin- 1 Arch. f. Augenh., lviii, 3, S. 391. 2 A. F. O., xv, 3,211.