426 OPERATIONS UPON THE GLOBE. and advised cutting from the periphery toward the pupil. Of course, it was necessary that a space existed in the meridian of the synechia between cornea and iris. Lang1 used two knife-needles, one blunted at the point. With the sharp one he punctured the cornea obliquely near the site of the adhesion, then substituted the blunt one, with which, in the withdrawing, he freed the iris. For the more extensive adhesions between cornea and iris, a number of simple and combined measures have been employed—a few of them effective, many ingenious. Naturally, the phase of irido- corneal adhesion that has specially concerned the surgeon is that where exists blindness from incarceration of the entire sphincter. I have seen Dr. Agnew obtain the object sought in such a case by inserting his angular lance as if for an ordinary optic iridectomy, then piercing the iris just short of where it entered the cicatrix, and pushing the point into the posterior chamber, thus freeing the iris sufficiently to admit of a small iridectomy, which he at once proceeded to make. Again, where the limited space between cornea and iris would not permit the handling of the lance-knife, the same surgeon would accomplish the end thus: A very narrow Graefe knife is passed into the anterior chamber close down to the limbus, the iris is partly severed from the scar with the point of the knife, counter- puncture made, the section completed, the loosened segment of iris pulled out with forceps and cut off. For elaborations of this branch of ocular surgery the reader is referred to Czermak's " Augenarztlichen Operationen," p. 716, where are given descriptions of the very original methods of the Hungarian ophthalmic surgeon Schulek. IRIDECTOMY. This is a surgical measure whereby a portion of the iris is excised. The first iridectomies on record were probably those made by Daviel2 to facilitate the removal of cataract. It was Reichenbaclv however, who first proposed partia' excision of the iris as a separate and independent procedure; and for making the coloboma he de- 1 Oph. Hosp. Rep., vol. xii, 1889, p. 356. 2 De Wecker, "Reminiscences historiques, etc.," Arch, d'opht., t. xiii, 1893. 3 Dissertation, Tubingen, 1767.