G E N J S RAL CONSIDER A T10 N S. 48l is even fairly transparent does not of necessity indicate that it is not entirely operable, i.e., capable of being extracted intact. This is the case with the large sclerosed lenses. Indeed, it is not so much the so-called immature cataracts that expose to the graver dangers, but the complicated, anomalous, and degenerated ones. When the patient's only hope of continued sight is centered in one eye, then I should say do not operate so long as there is useful vision. If the fellow eye be sound, especially if its lens also is cataractous, greater liberty is allowable. Moreover, it is perfectly justifiable, nay, advisable, to remove a cataract from an eye whose fellow is normal, provided the stage of opacity is fit and the conditions in general are favorable. It is the duty of every individual to obtain what sight is possible in both eyes in order to have a wholesome reserve in the event of an emergency. True, the immediate result is not so gratifying, either to the patient or to the operator, be the operation ever so successful, as the former cannot appreciate the added vision, especially when, as it sometimes happens, an annoying diplopia ensues. Later this will disappear, whereas, if left alone the cataract would reach a stage not so favorable for extraction. It is also an error to assume that binocular single vision is impossible in such cases. To operate for cataract upon both eyes at one sitting would, according to most surgeons, the writer included, be the height of folly unless the circumstances were peculiar. If some unknown or unforeseen danger threatened, it would likely be common to both eyes. Then, too, through the experience gained by operation upon one eye—as to the patient's behavior and as to any unpleasant physical happenings during and after the extraction—one would be in better position—would know his ground, so to speak—when it came to dealing with the other eye. True, there are some strong arguments advanced in favor of greater boldness in this regard. As, for example, through timidity the patient might refuse extraction on the second eye and thus be deprived of the benefits of bilateral vision. Again, a double extraction means practically one operation, and one course of after-treatment, which has great weight in our consideration for the comfort and convenience of these elderly and feeble subjects, particularly when they live some distance away. A recent paper by Howard Hansell, of Philadelphia, in favor of 31