COMPLICATED AND SOFT CATARACTS. 541 dense, thick, and chalky-white, of irregularly rounded outline. Radiating from these were numerous streaks of white and gray, in places so thin as to be almost transparent, the whole having a wrinkled appearance and apparently containing no soft material. Evidently, not a case for either discission or dilaceration. Advised extraction. June 15, 1888. Agnew's blunt-hook operation, the technic of which is as follows: Right eye. Pupil dilated. Chloroform. Superior keratotomy with lance-knife or iridectomy knife, point pushed far in and thrust through the cataract, or rather through the zonule, below the thicker portion, and behind the lower border of the pupil. W hile an assistant steadied the eye with the fixation forceps, I took the blunt hook in the left hand and iris scissors in the right, introduced the former at the wound, inserted the point in the cut made through the cataract below, made slow traction, at the same time giving the handle of the hook about a quarter turn on its long axis, so as to pass the crook tlatwise through the incision, drew out all the thicker portion of the cataract and cut off the adherent zonular shreds close to the cornea. No loss of vitreous, no iris complications. Quick recovery with round black pupil. August 2, 1888. The same operation was made on the left eye. Same result, except that a single adhesion occurred below, where the iris was so drawn upward as to produce a heart-shaped pupil. This was later freed by discission and the pupil became round. The boy was last seen in August, 1897, when I made advancement of the left externus for the correction of the squint. At this time, when sent back to his home in Ohio, there was no strabismus, the nystag- mus was hardly perceptible, and the vision of each eye, with lens of +10 D, was 20/70. The reduced vision being due to lack of development of the retinae and choroidea, common to these cases. I have since, in numerous instances, availed myself of the great advantages afforded by this procedure, and always with most grati- fying results. It is specially applicable to certain forms of congenital cataract, such as the irregular zonular type, that are of stunted growth, and arc more or less apaque throughout; also to the dry largely membranous ones, named by Schmidt "aride siliqueuse" cataracts. The measure is equally suitable for the extraction of many of the shrunken traumatic cataracts. A trained assistant is