OPERATIONS UPON THE GLOBE. 468 the value of this form of transplantation. In consequence, Wicher- kiewicz and his assistants made 35 implantations, with a technic somewhat modified from that of Lagrange. He, like Lagrange, placed the eye in the inverse position, which is better for the nutrition of the cornea. He used catgut to unite the recti tendons. The Tenonian cavity was first irrigated with cold, sterile, physiologic salt solution. Fifteen were children. In 32 instances chloroform narcosis was employed, and in 3 local (Schleich's), with novocain and adrenalin. These last reacted much more severely than did the chloroform cases. In 24 cases there was no marked reaction. In a few instances the threads cut out of the tendons, necessitating their renewal. Once there was copious hemorrhage beneath the conjunctiva. In two pronounced exophthalmos occurred, the result of deeper hemorrhage. In eleven there was considerable edema of the conjunctiva. Wicherkiewicz's operations demon- strated that the eye of the rabbit "takes" readily in its new soil. As an illustration of the intimacy of its union with its surround- ings, in one of Wicherkiewicz's cases the original eye had been removed because of a malignant tumor, the growth recurred and penetrated to the interior of the new eye. It was also demon- strated that the grafted eye progressively lost volume in all cases, and that this atrophic process was most marked in the older subjects, in whom it did not cease until the graft disappeared completely; while, as regarded the children, it remained of fair size, even at the end of two years. For these reasons Wicher- kiewicz now limits the operation to children and to those adults who are in urgent need of an enucleation, but will only consent to undergo it by being promised that another eye will be put in to replace that which is sacrificed. In children, who are too young to wear an artificial eye, the grafted eye, according to Wicherkiewicz, serves to fill the socket, prevents falling in of the free borders of the lids, obviating irritation from the lashes, favors development of that side of the face, and prevents the ugly sinking backward of the upper lid and the formation of the deep orbito-palpebral furrow. Enucleation.—General Considerations as to Technic.—If one is blest with a trained assistant, the operation of enucleation is greatly facilitated by entrusting to him the opening of the lids by means of a pair of Desmarres' tractors. He knows just how to