ORGANIC OR CICATRICIAL ENTROPION. 269 fascia just where the thread enters the latter, or against the fold, simply pushing up the other flap with its edge also turned backward, just as described for the ptosis operation. While the flap is being thus held, the operator pushes down (or backward, as regards the eye) with the forceps on the weakened tarsus, to make sure that it bends with its concavity outward, closing the newly-made groove, and now surgeon and assistant pull together on the ends of thread and draw it tight, when the former takes both ends and completes the knot. Were the tarsus not pressed down in its middle this way, it might hump or buckle up, i.e., with its concavity downward and actually increase the deformity it was the aim to correct. The sutures, to complete the canthoplasty- are here put in and tied as per description under "Canthoplasty." Ninth step. Making and Placing the Graft.—A wad of cotton wet with warm boric acid is laid over the lids. The patient's lower lip is turned out and gently washed with warm salt or boric solution not scrubbed and rubbed, so as to hurt the epithelium—and a small cotton sponge dipped in boric solution and tightly squeezed is pushed down into the pocket between lip and gums. A pair of large straight scissors, the same as are used for the canthotomy, answer best for cutting out the graft. The lip is caught between the thumb and index, rolled over the medius so as to evert well, the scissors opened very wide, the base of the blades placed firmly on that part of the mucous membrane that usually lies opposite the margins of the gums and, bearing down with the scissors while holding up with the middle finger from below, a long ellipse is excised with one snip of the shears that will fill the intermarginal incision. The piece will include not only the entire thickness of the mucous membrane, but a number of lobules of adipose tissue will be found attached to it. Turn it over, face down, upon the nail of the left thumb (or upon the rubber glove or gauze cot covering the same) and with the small scissors, carefully trim off all the adipose, paring it down to the submucous connective tissue. A very thin, flabby graft is useless. It must have body as well as breadth. In respect to the latter dimension, as lime goes on, I am inclined to make the grafts wider than of yore. In extreme cases, they would measure hardly less than seven or eight millimeters at the middle.