INSPECTION. 627 3. The ophthalmoscope. 4. The sideroscope. (" a. The fluoroscope. 5. The roentgen rays., i.e., \ b. The raclioscope. I c. Radiography. Circumstantial Evidence.—By far the greater number of fragments or missiles that strike the eye are so minute, and so lack- ing in velocity and impact that they fail to enter at all. Of those that penetrate the vitreous chamber, the big ones have mostly caused destruction of the eye directly or indirectly before it reaches the surgeon. The vast majority of those he is called upon to seek in the vitreous, and to extract, are small—that is to say, just large enough so that, when traveling at the rate of ordinary flying particles, they have striking force sufficient to pierce the cornea, iris and lens, or the sclera and its coverings. Larger ones, traveling with greater speed, such as bird-shot, are more apt to pass through the entire bulbus. The circumstances of the accident, examination of tools, etc., may give an idea as to the form and size of the foreign body; and the direction of the flying particle w.'th reference to the position of the eye at the time of the injury may suggest its location. Upon the size of the foreign body depends, in great measure, the size of the wound. But it must be remembered, that a long, slender project! e will, if it strikes endwise, leave but an insignificant wound, and vice versa. Inspection.—If the injury is recent, there are usually objective as well as subjective signs of it. These are: Externally, redness and swelling of the lids, and of the conjunctiva, and evidences of a wound. If the latter is in the cornea, there will be, internally, a corresponding one in the iris or in the lens, or in both, not always visible. The track of the foreign body through the crystalline may be in evidence—it may not be as it is often by way of the zonule. There is often blood, and sometimes pus, in the anterior chamber, and this may hide the signs in iris and lens. When visible, these consecutive wounds give a good idea of the direction of the foreign body, and something as to its location. If the wound is in the sclera it, too, has a story to tell as to the size and direction of the foreign body. Again, inspection may fail of results here, because