ECTROPION. 3 Clin, opht., 1899, p. 31. 3°° Some years ago, I1 reported the restoration of the entire right lower lid and the outer third of the upper by a mitten-shaped flap formed from the cheek. The breadth of the mitten was so great at its widest portion that it was impossible to approximate at this point the edges of the secondary defect, and a cutaneous graft, taken from the arm, was put in to fill the space; Fig. 185 shows the result three years after the operation. The case was that of an elderly woman, and the parts had been destroyed by a rodent ulcer. In place of borrowing skin to one side of a commissure, above or below, as in the examples just given, the flap has been taken from one lid to replace tissue lacking in the other. Landolt2 made from the upper lid a bridge, or double pediceled flap, to 1$! restore the lower lid that had been de- stroyed by a carcinoma. An incision was made through skin and muscle, two milli- meters from and parallel with the upper margin, and extending at either end some- what beyond the canthus. This was re- peated seven or eight millimeters higher up, and the intervening strip of skin and muscle was loosened throughout its length, except at the ends. The conjunctiva was separated from the lower free border, from canthus to canthus, sufficiently to receive the flap, which was transposed to fill the gap and there stitched. The upper lip of the superior opening was undermined, and the skin drawn down and sutured to the lower lip. At the proper time the pedicles were cut and trimmed to fit (Fig. 186). Panass made a regular practice of taking from one lid and giving to the other, though through a single pedicle left near the outer canthus, and he usually subjoined provisional tarsorrhaphy. This robbing of Peter to pay Paul would seem hardly justifiable if suitable tissue for the flaps could be found outside the longitude of the palpebral fissure, for the reason that it is inadvisable to have the bulk of the secondary defect contiguous to the lid margins. 1 Am. Jour, of Ophthalmology, June, 1897. 2 Archiv. d'opht, 1885, p. 492.