OPERATIONS UPON THE EXTRINSIC MUSCLES. i86 junctiva; the other needle follows the same course near the other border. The loop of thread thus rests on the fleshy portion of the muscle. The needles are then carried forward and the ends of thread given secure anchorages near the cornea. In proportion as the thread is drawn up, the strabismus diminishes. The thread is removed at the end of 12 days. Obviously, this operation can be made applicable only to the lower degrees of squint. So numerous have been the original folding, or tucking, operations that have been given to the world since those just mentioned, and, as only a somewhat elaborate or detailed description in each instance could give an adequate idea of its merits—and merit they have, almost without exception—it is inexpedient to more than refer to some of them here. . Colburn,1 of Chicago, some twelve years ago gave what he called an " advancing tuck operation." Savage,2 of Nashville, devised a muscle-tucking operation more than ten years ago. Again,3 about one year ago the same surgeon published another tendon-folding measure. It seems that a classification of these procedures is made into the "shortening tuck," i.e., where the fold is made at or behind the insertion of the tendon; and the "advancing tuck" where the same is formed between the insertion and the cornea. Todd,4 of Minneapolis, and Clark, of Columbus, have not only given tucking operations, but each has invented an ingenious tucking instrument. Todd's is a kind of two-tined fork, or bident, one prong of which is placed beneath the tendon and there clamped by turning a nut on the handle—to rotate the instrument backward makes the shortening tuck, and forward, the advancing tuck (Plate VII, No. 87). The Clark device is a triple squint hook, the middle member of which is made to move up or down by turning a knob on the handle. When the three members are on the same level, the instrument appears only as a rather broad hook. To apply it, the middle portion is placed somewhat below the other two, introduced beneath the tendon, while the other two rest on top of the tendon. 1 Oph. Record, April, 1902. 2 Oph. Record, March, 1893. 3 Oph. Record, Nov., 1903. 4 Oph. Record, vol. xi, p. 73, 1902, and Annals of Oph., Oct., 1904; also Journal Am. Med. Assn., Jan. 7, 1905.