TENDON SHORTENING. I87 The middle is then made to rise, whereby a fold of the desired height is formed. In each case the folds of tendon are sewn together by animal sutures to prevent unrolling. Bruns,1 of New Orleans, is also the author of a clever folding operation; and has contrived a modification of the Clark hook to meet the requirements of the proceeding. A truly cavalier folding operation is that of Trousseau.2 Given a convergent squint, for example, after moderate tenotomy of the internus, an aid rotates the globe far inward, the tendon of the externus is grasped by fixation forceps and drawn away from the globe. A long, curved needle and substantial thread are passed into the episcleral tissues near the cornea, through the tendon, then beneath the body of the muscle, finally through it and out. The eye is then rotated to the outer angle and the suture tied. The thread remains from 6 to 12 days. In 27 cases the results were satisfactory in 21. Other European originators of folding operations are Brands and Foster.-* The hitter's is very like the Schweigger resection operation in all save that, of course, the tendon is not divided. There is one feature wherein the Fig. 78.—J. F. Noyes' shortening, folding methods are unique—if they do not succeed in correcting the deviation, they cannot leave it greater than it had been before. The strabismus operation of J. F. Noyes,5 of Detroit, has been referred to as a folding operation (Fig. 78). It was, in truth, a shortening operation—not, however, by folding nor by resection of the tendon, but by dividing and lapping it. The whole width of the tendon was cut through at a distance from its insertion thai varied in accordance with the degree of squint; the distal end was placed beneath the stump, and the two sewed together. />. Shortening by excision of a part of the tendon resection 1 Oph. Record, June, 1Q04. 2 Annal d'oculistique, Jan., 1905. 3 A. F. A., iqo2. -1 Versammlung. der Niederl. Ophthl. Gesellsch., Dec, 1901. 5 Trans, of the Am. Oph. Society, 1874, p. 273.