55i 'Indian" method. The enthusiastic reports of this Anglo-Indian surgeon have led to another attempted revival of this coveted form of extraction, and it will be interesting to those not immediately concerned to watch the results. 1. The High Percentage of Vitreous Loss. This is the greatest objection to extraction of the encapsuled lens, and the one that will probably forever prevent its ado]'lion as a routine measure. More- over, it is to tin's great drawback that most of the others here enu- merated owe their origin. The dire consequences directly and indirectly traceable to this accident have already been treated of under accidents immediate and consecutive. They include expul- sive choroidal hemorrhage, suppuration, acute iridocyclitis, slow and prolonged uveitis, all classes of iris complications, hyalitis, glaucoma, detachment and degenerations of the retina, etc. Major Smith in several large series of such extractions reports vitreous escape varying between6and &''/<. Herbert says, " No other operator has succeeded in approaching this low percentage." Of the hundreds of skillful ophthalmic surgeons who have attempted the operation few have reported as low as 25%, and most of them something between 30',, and 50%. While the same surgeons, operating in the usual manner, with capsulotomy, have kept the percentage down to from 1 to 6%. 2. Rupture of Capsule. No matter how clever the operator, he can never be certain of delivering the lens with its capsule intact. At the hands of Major Smith himself the capsule breaks in 5 to 8* , of cases—at those of others in if)', and upward. If, as most often happens, the capsule must then be left in the eye, the condi- tions are worse than if ordinary extraction had been choosen. For it must be remembered that the rupture occurs in most instances when the cataract is nearly delivered, that is, when the zonule has been torn away from its supports, thus leaving the capsule free to get into the corneal wound. This leads to delayed union. It is likely, too, that the abandoned capsule contains cataract matter, and the whole forms a crumpled mass, more potent for trouble, perhaps, than the smooth encapsuled cortex remaining after other methods. 3. Iris Complications.—Owing to die relatively great frequency of vitreous loss, also to the extent of the primary incision, the propor-