OPERATIONS UPON THE CONJUNCTIVA. 1 Archives of Ophthalmology, vol. xv, 1886, p. 147. not applicable, though it is specially valuable where other means are contraindicated. The writer proceeds as follows: "The lids are cleansed externally with warm boric acid solution. They are then everted and'a single drop of adrenalin solution put onto the conjunctiva. A small hard mop is made by winding absorbent cotton on the tip of a carrier. This is dipped into a very hot solution of sublimate, about 1-250 in strength, the lid is again everted and the affected conjunctiva rubbed. The rubbing should be neither too delicate nor too rough, and not prolonged beyond a minute or two, clipping the mop in the hot sublimate now and then, but never leaving an excess of liquid on it, to run down over the cornea and healthy portions of the conjunctiva. Then, without replacing the lids, the whole mucous sac is copiously irrigated for another minute with 4% boric acid solution, as hoi as can be borne. And, lastly, a drop of cocain solution is put in. This is repeated with two-day intervals, and, on the alternate clays precisely the same is done excepting that a 50% solution of argyrol is substituted for the sublimate. If properly carried out, there is no irritation after either treatment." (b) Expression of the lymphoid material from the trachoma follicles, in order to hasten the cure, is by no means a recent idea. It was formerly accomplished by means of the finger-nails, and was called unguipressio. A number of attempted revivals of it had occurred in the last century, as, for example, by Eble (1828), Pilz (1854), and Cuignet (1873). It was not, however, until its strong advocacy by Hotz,1 of Chicago, in 1886, that its day really arrived; and it looks as if it had come to stay. Hotz first used his thumb-nails, but soon had the jaws of a pair of old angular forceps made smooth for this purpose. If I mistake not, this was the original expression forceps. Then followed, in 1891, Prince's ring-forceps, Noyes' trough-jawed forceps and Knapp's roller forceps, all in quick succession (see Plate VI). The next year the writer suggested a ring-forceps made of tortoise-shell as an improvement over the steel, in that it would not admit of the same forceful application— hence less severe. The common fault of these instruments is the inevitable traction exerted upon the membrane in stripping the follicles.