SYMBLEPHARON. 337 resembles a glass eye—especially at and near the outer border. In lieu of a sheet of metal of sufficient thickness I have fastened two pieces together with collodion. At least one perforation in the plate may be regarded as an absolute necessity. If the globe be intact, a large opening corresponding in size to that of the cornea serves to obviate undue pressure and friction upon this sensitive membrane. It also permits of inspection, so that one may be informed as to the health of the cornea and as to whether or not the posterior leaf of the graft is "taking" within the limbus. Besides it gives oppor- tunity for irrigation. Where the eye is absent there may be one or two perforations. Should the graft required be large enough to cover the entire plate, as is true in operations for restoration of all four cul-de-sacs, there is only room for one opening 3/16 to 1/4 inch in diameter in the center; or for two, each about i/S inch, placed close together on the horizontal axis of the plate. Either will serve for cleansing the cavity or for manipulating the plate. If the openings are larger they deprive the graft of the support it needs. A squint-hook, put in through one of these perforations, acts well as a handle by which the plate may be mobilized and withdrawn when the proper time arrives. In coating a one-hole plate with paraffin a pair of fixation forceps may be thrust through the opening, when the "spread" of the instrument will suffice to hold the plate. If there are two holes one prong of the forceps is passed through each. Apropos of the paraffin coating, it would seem to be of unques- tionable value. As Wilder has pointed out, the advantages of a plate so prepared over the naked metal are greater smoothness, less harshness, and the very desirable qualities, in addition, of causing the epithelial surface of the graft to lie evenly spread out, or clinging, and the facility with which it may be built up into appropriate form and thickness. Wilder says that the melting- point of the paraffin should not be lower than 1300 F. I would recommend that it be as high as it is possible to obtain it; for I have observed that there is a tendency of the surface to become hummocky and for a ridge to form along the palpebral fissure after the plate has been in the eye for a few clays. The harder the substance, of course, the more uniform the coating would remain under the influence of the animal heat and the movement of the