beer's knife. 63 for its use in general, its incisive qualities are truly remarkable. It has the added property of being able to cut nearly as well in pushing as in pulling—a veritable fiddle-bow action. With it such measures as the Streatfield counter-grooving of the tarsus, the intermarginal incision to receive the graft in restoration of the free border of the lid, etc., are particularly facilitated. The custom of making the free extremity of the handle into a blunt dissector or of making " doubledieader" instruments of any description is to be decried as not in keeping with advanced ideas. Besides, there is little to be gained in time or convenience by their use. Who has not seen in the well-known Daviel's spoon combination the persistence with which the cystotome member tried to get caught into things while the spoon member was occupied? The very diminutive scalpels often seen may have a place in ophthalmic surgery; if so, the writer has never found it. Bistouries.—Two of these also. One having a long, straight- edged blade, with good, stiff back, joined to the handle by a strong shank, for work such as deeply thrust incisions for orbital cellulitis. The blade should be at least 4 centimeters in length, and 1/2 centimeter wide at the hilt, gradually tapering, by the back, in a slight curve to the point. The other smaller, with blade curved, concave on the edge, and extremity neatly blunted. Its length should not exceed 3 centimeters, and its greatest breadth, which is also at the base, scant 3 mm. This has been called a probe- pointed bistoury, and is most useful in enlarging openings, or fistulous tracks, into suppurating cavities, or leading to foreign bodies in the orbit, etc. It would also answer, in a pinch, for extending an inadequate corneal section in extraction. Beer's Knife.—One of these is sufficient, and it should be of the true Beer, or, rather, Earth, pattern, i.e., not of convex edge, like the old Beranger cataract knife, but straight both edge and back, and somewhat smaller in all dimensions than that of Beer. Three centimeters long and 8 mm. at the widest point is ample, whereas the original was 4 centimeters long by 1 centimeter for the rise of the hypotenuse. Although no longer employed in the capacity for which it was intended, yet for the incision of hordeola, and of chalazions by the Agnew method, through the border of the lid, there is no knife its equal.