631 METHOD OF SWEET. an object so as to make the circle coincide or parallel with that of the circle of the cornea base, a fairly accurate guide is obtained for plotting the sclera in both views. It must be seen to in the lateral exposure that the plate is parallel with the sagittal plane of the eye, and, in the other, that this plane is perpendicular to the plate. 2. The Stereoscopic.—This method involves the psychic element that is concerned in binocular single vision. In other words, it gives to the otherwise flat skiagram its third dimension, enabling one to perceive the relative positions of the objects there outlined in relief or perspective as well as laterally. The points of emission of the X-rays from the tubes during the exposure are separated horizontally by a distance corresponding to that between one's eyes, the rays from each made to fall on its own half of the plate, thus producing a double radiograph. The resulting skiagram is viewed with a stereoscope. The process is well adapted to physical examination elsewhere, but p oorly to that now under consideration chiefly on account of lack of definition because of the smallness of the object sought, of the heavy bone structures through which the rays must pass, and the feeble illumination. 3. The Geometric.—This method is based on the principles of geometry as applied to mathematics; that is, the result is obtained by the construction of diagrams or actual working models, together with numerical calculation. There have been a number of plans worked out on these lines by different individuals, some simpler, some more complicated; some requiring elaborate paraphernalia, some scarcely any beside the X-ray apparatus. They start from the same beginning, and all arrive at substantially the same result, but by different routes. As a beginning, two shadows, or projec- tions, of the foreign body in connection with the shadows of two or three other near-by objects of known position, are photographed on the same plate. Both exposures are made with a single tube, which is moved a definite distance between the two, or they are made simultaneously, by using a pair of tubes. The exact location of the foreign body is then determined by triangulation. The result is accurate to a degree, in all of them. Only two, as being among those most often chosen, will be dwelt upon at any length here. One is by Sweet, of Philadelphia, and another by Guilloz, of Nantez. Method of Sweet.—Sweet, of Philadelphia, has designed a local-