BANDAGING. 15 of its elasticity This same quality makes it objectionable for general use; besides, it is rather warm for summer. Muslin, ex- cept it be of the sleaziest, is too stiff and unyielding. Gauze makes a fine bandage, but to be good it is expensive. The material that seems most nearly to fulfill all requirements is a good quality of white mosquito netting. This was first employed for eye bandages at the Illinois Eye and Ear Infirmary 22 years ago. Its use has now become almost universal in this country. The choicest kind is quite white, is well covered with sizing, has a moderately small mesh, is free from bars of heavier weaving, and costs, now, about 70 cents per bolt. The bolts each contain a single piece eight yards long and two yards wide. The length is just right for one double or for two single bandages. It is so folded that by opening the bolt very slightly one has a strip 1/2 yard by 2 yards, containing sixteen thicknesses. By pinning this to a cloth on a table, it can be cut with heavy shears—or pinned to a regular cutting table, can be more accurately divided with a strong, sharp knife. Thus, a cut of 18 inches will make a strip 8 yards long. The strips are exactly three and one-half inches wide They are nicely rolled, and the end fastened with a pin. The goods must be folded straight, and the cutting done with exactness, else the bandage will be on the bias and ravel badly. This bandage is applied wet- soaking wet. With a little practice it can be put on quite smoothly. It conforms to the head and, when dry, has staying qualities that are truly remarkable. The netting bandage is never used a second time. In order to remove it from the head it is cut with strong, blunt-pointed scissors just above the unoperated eye, or at the temple. Starch bandages are rarely used in eye practice. There are two forms of bandage, the simple si rip, or tie (Fig. 6), and the roller, or full length. The last may be either double or single. For the adult bandage the width is three inches—strip or roller; for children, somewhat narrower. The netting bandage is made wider because, being applied wet, it stretches and grows narrower. The length of the simple tie is about one yard, or meter; that of the roller, four yards. The double eye bandage is, of course, 8 yards long. Bandaging.—This is an art that few acquire to a high degree. Before applying the bandage a proper pad of cotton must be built