234 OPERATIONS FOR PTOSIS. after the mere suture operation, devised a more strictly surgical method, the essential feature of which is, according to its author, the direct autoplastic fixation of the lid with the orbito-frontal muscle (Figs. 108 and 109). Panas called the operation blepharopexy and it may be described as follows: A lid spatula is put into the upper conjunctival cul-de-sac. A horizontal incision is made midway be- tween the eyebrow and free border of the upper lid, through skin and orbicularis down to the tarso-orbital fascia. From this in- cision branch two others, including skin only, one on either side, vertically, or slightly inclining outward, till opposite the upper bor- der of the tarsus, when they are given a direction yet more divergent, which, in terminating—the inner one near the punctum, the outer close to the external commissure—is almost parallel with the ends of the first incision. The three points or flaps thus outlined are dissected up. A cut is then made along almost the entire midline of the shaved supercilia, comprising skin and the thick layer of muscular fibres formed by the interlacing of the orbicularis and the frontalis. The bridge of integument between the two hori- zontal incisions, is tunneled through with a bistoury. The middle flap overlying the tarsus is pushed up through the tunnel and sutured to the superior lip of the upper incision by three stitches. Superficial sutures are put in to close the remaining gaps. The degree of effect is regulated by placing the primary incision higher or lower, as the case may be, and by the extent to which the buried flap is drawn up. If it is observed, in drawing up the flap, that there is a tendency to ectropion before the sutures are tied, two others are put into the tarso-orbital fascia, one on either side of the middle flap, but not into the skin. These also are passed through the tunnel and united to the upper lip of the brow incision near its extremities. These last are supposed to lift the paralyzed lid in the natural manner, i.e., by giving to it the movement of a rotary hinge, upward and backward, revolving on an imaginary axis, which passes through the two commissures. The procedure, while successful to a degree, has certain serious drawbacks. The considerable disturbance of the normal relation of the parts, the obliteration of the physiologic sulcus, and the sub- stitution for it of an inverted fold, the covering up of an epithelial surface by a raw one, and the fact that the effect, after all, is obtained