SECONDARY CATARACT. 565 mentary operations or some grade of blindness is inevitable— our management of the case may be such that it will not only materi- ally diminish the chances of secondary cataract, but it will also put us in better position to cope with it when it does occur by leaving the eye more nearly in its normal state. As to the length of time that should elapse between the extraction and the discission, no definite period can be fixed. It is not prudent, in any case, to interfere while there are any remaining traces of irritation from the primary operation, because of the liability of the opening in the membrane to speedily close again. It would be well to wait from one month to six weeks after the most favorable recovery from the extraction. From then on the operation may be made at any time. Then, too, there is great variation in the time at which the secondary cataract begins to dull the sight. The latter may remain good for several months or even several years, then fail from this cause. However well-timed the "needling" or successful, it does not insure against the necessity for another at a later date. There are several surgical measures that are employed to free the pupil when obstructed in this manner, and the choice of one will depend upon the character of the membrane in question. In most instances, it will be some kind of discission or incision, seeing that this is the simplest and safest means, and quite as effectual as any for the usual thin variety of after-cataract. Having decided upon discission, then, we will say, what sort of instrument shall we use for the cutting of the membrane ? For, as its name- implies, the operation is one of cutting, not tearing. It must of necessity have a trenchant edge. Now, this the ordinary spear- pointed needle, used by so many operators, possesses, it is true, but in a very limited degree, and its wound, instead of being a clean incision, is a jagged rent. One of the knife-needles is a far more suitable instrument, and Knapp's is the best of these. My preference is for the Graefe knife, selected and prepared as described in the chapter on Discission, and for the same reasons as there given. The other instruments are the same as for discission in general, viz., blepharostat and fixation forceps. The pupil is dilated as widely as possible. The illumination of the field of operation, for the whiter or denser membranes, may be