OPERATIONS UPON THE GLOBE. 374 directed toward the center of the operative field and from every part of the periphery. Thus one avoids leaving tags of epithelium and flaps of Bowman's membrane around the place to harbor bacteria and increase the dangers of infection. After the operation, another copious douching of the cornea with warm boric acid solution and instruction that the eye be bathed a time or two in very hot water, and all is done that most cases require. A class of corneal injury common in the United States is that from explosions of gunpowder, and requires a management quite peculiar. The unburnt grains go rather deeply into the cornea, but rarely perforate it. To dig at them, particularly when the injury is recent, but results in further traumatism without attaining the main object. Even when one succeeds in removing a grain, it is broken, and a black stain remains behind. It is best to wait from 48 to 60 hours, meanwhile watching the eye and keeping it from infection by mild antiseptics, and under other appropriate treatment, when it will be found that the grains have become loosened. If the eye is then irrigated copiously with boric acid solution, cocainized, the patient put in the recumbent position and a few drops of H202 instilled, the lids being held apart to allow the liquid to overlie the cornea, most of the impacted foreign material, be it powder or other debris, will come away. The peroxid attacks the softened envelope, and the gas that is generated forces the foreign body out. At the same time, the powder that is in the lids and face is treated by rubbing the skin vigorously with absorbent cotton wet with the peroxid. Larger foreign bodies have often to be dealt with differently. It may be that one has struck the cornea so obliquely and with such force as to have plowed its way for some distance beneath the sur- face. It were best here to slit up the track of the foreign body before attempting to dislodge it. Or, again, a particle may have stopped just short of dropping into the anterior chamber and yet not be ac- cessible by forceps, and so nearly through that it were unwise to use the gouge. In this case one might have recourse to the method of Des- marres, viz., that of passing a broad needle or Beer's knife through the base of the cornea into the anterior chamber immediately beneath the foreign body. Upon the ensuing evacuation of the aqueous, the blade of the instrument will tend to press the piece upward, and, at the same time, form a solid foundation upon which to work. If