427 IRIDECTOMY. signed a sort of punch or trephine. Janin about 1772, cut off a prolapse of the iris that had occurred in an attempt to make an iridotomy, and remarked how little was the tendency of the resulting pupil to close, as compared with that produced by the older opera- tion of iridotomy. The elder deWenzel2 made numerous iridec- tomies in conjunction with his cataract cases, either at the time of the extraction or afterward, to create an artificial pupil in atresia of the iritic membrane. These operations were mostly of the sub- corneal variety, i.e., the sections of the iris were made within the anterior chamber, in contradistinction to the pre-corneal kind, as usually practised, wherein the portion to be removed is withdrawn with a traction instrument before being severed. The great Viennese ophthalmic surgeon, George Joseph Beer, was the pioneer of the latter mode, which he first conceived in 1806. Not only this, but he greatly enlarged the sphere of the measure by applying it to cases other than those wherein the lens was opaque or was absent, as in staphyloma and opacities of the cornea, for artificial pupil. He also gave a correct method of technic and fitting instruments for the making of the operation. His broad, triangular cataract knife was used for the corneal incision, which he made as close as possible to the sclera. If there was no posterior synechia, the sphincter was caught by a small sharp hook, pulled out, and the section made with small Daviel scissors. If adhesions with the anterior capsule or cornea existed, the withdrawal was by means of tiny toothed forceps. The operation underwent slight modifications at the hands of Beer's immediate disciples, as Walther, Langenbeck, Rosas, Chelius, Flarer, and the two Jaegers, Karl and Friederich; in England, at those of Gibson and Tyrrell, and, in France, at those of Sichel and Desmarres.2 The last mentioned added iridorrhexis, or tearing of the iris from its periphery, to increase the breadth of the coloboma. But it is to the most distinguished pupil of both Beer and Desmarres, viz., the immortal Albrecht von Graefe, that the world is indebted for the inestimable value of iridectomy as a curative agent, espe- cially in recurrent iritis and irido-cyclitis,^ and in glaucoma.-* Did the fame of this versatile and subtle genius in ophthalmology rest 1 Traitc de la Cataract, Neuremberg, 1788, p. 188. 2 Traite des maladies des yeux, 1855, T. ii, p. 542. 3 Arch. f. Ophth., ii, 1856, S. 202" 4 Arch. f. Ophth., iii, 2, S. 456, 1857.