ii4 INSTRUMENTS AND THEIR MANAGEMENT. important surgical measures, either with the instruments pertaining thereto, with purely make-believe articles, such as pens or pencils, or with imaginative ones, holding nothing. While those move- ments pertaining to the wrist and forearm are not to be neglected, those of the fingers come first. In addition to nimbleness and guidableness, the fingers must possess delicacy and sensitiveness of touch. These are attained both by systematic exercises, similar to those given the blind in teaching them to read, and in acquiring knowledge of many external things, and by the scrupulous care of the hands, particularly of the skin thereon. The avoidance of needless wetting of the hands with solutions that destroy the epider- mis, by wearing suitable gloves when engaged in any work or exercise that would otherwise lead to roughness of the skin, etc. The great advantages to be gained from ambidexterity are too well recog- nized to be dwelt upon here. It is becoming so universal for ophthalmic surgeons to be ambidextrous that it now looks almost like a confession of inferiority for one to stand at the left side of the patient, for instance, in making a corneal section for cataract of the left eye. Modes of Grasping Instruments.—A great deal depends upon degree of pressure exerted by the fingers upon the object held. Too tight a grip tends to tremor, lack of motility, and general awkward- ness; too light a one, to want of precision and to actual escape of the instrument from the fingers. The happy mean, then, would be to grasp light enough to insure the greatest freedom of move- ment consistent with a secure hold. After this comes the exact position of the fingers relative to the part grasped. This varies both as to the character of the instrument and as to the use it is being put to at the moment. First, as to the instruments with handles. Much has been said about the "penholder fashion" of holding eye instruments. This is a poor illustration. A penholder is held steadily by the tip of the thumb, the pulp of the index, and the inner side of the first phalanx of the medius. The motion im- parted to the pen is mainly that of the forearm. No turning, or rotation of the implement is practiced or required. Obviously, it is quite another matter when it comes to guiding the objects under consideration. The great factors in the manipulation of the handled instruments are the thumb and the index. Between these