562 EXTRACTION OF CATARACT. aqueous to escape. This, in view of the changed character of the aqueous that is secreted after sudden evacuation of the anterior chamber—i.e., that it is much richer in albuminoid substances— renders it highly desirable that there be no escape during the operation. With the method in question one is able to make a number of discissions, both for primary and secondary cataract, without ever losing a drop of aqueous. Again, the trenchant needles go into the anterior chamber with a start that is apt to carry them too far, and they come out with a pop, and are prone to pull bits of capsule into the corneal opening, there to lie inviting in- fection and preventing healing. The advantages of the peripheral point of entry, or conjunctival route over that which is further in, are: 1. It lies in the vascular zone where closure and healing are im- mediate. 2. It affords the opportunity of penetrating the cataract or capsule in a very slanting manner, which makes the act of cutting more positive and makes it easy to avoid going through the posterior capsule and wounding the vitreous. If, for example, one wishes to cut a sheet of paper with a knife, his task is much easier if he holds the blade at an acute angle with the plane of the paper than if held at or near a right angle. Bandaging for twenty-four to forty-eight hours after the operation, and atropin throughout the treatment, constitute about all the needed after-measures in most instances. ACCIDENTS AND COMPLICATIONS. Like those incident to extraction, those after discission are both immediate and consecutive, though by far the most serious pertain to the after treatment. Among the more frequent immediate accidents are wounding of the iris, premature escape of aqueous, rupture of zonule (disloca- tion) injury to the ciliary processes by tugging and tearing, plunging the instrument into the vitreous, and, as already referred to, the dragging of portions of capsule lens or vitreous into the corneal wound. The best means of avoiding them, while in the main quite obvious, do not, even as regards the most skillful, always keep them