289 ECTROPION AND BLEPHAROPLASTY. several headings, and to present certain other examples by means of pictures that will speak for themselves. 1. The first (French) mode is best adapted to cases in which the loss of lid tissue and that of the surrounding skin has been relatively small. This is not to say that the method is applicable only to partial or circumscribed ectropion. On the contrary, the latter may be complete, and affect either one or both lids. And part of the available integument may be cicatricial, yet it must be not deeply scared over any considerable area, and must be capable of being loosened from beneath, and made into sliding flaps, excepting for such limited portions as will admit of being excised without being detrimental to the gen- eral result. Tarsorrhaphy, provisional or definitive, was a necessary adjunct to most of these operations, but it may often be omitted, and the ultimate „ . Fig 161.—Von Amnion, effect heightened by overlapping the lids, and fixing the operated one by collodion or other means. Given an ectropion from a deep circumscribed cicatrix with its long axis vertical, and that cannot be readily excised, as when con- tinuous with bone, one may have recourse to the process of Van Ammon (Fig. 161). This consists in surrounding the cicatrix by an elliptical incision, removing its top to a depth corresponding with that of the contiguous skin, and leaving the rest to be buried. Free dissection is made all about the opening, the lid is righted, pushed up high onto the globe, and the wound closed by interrupted sutures. For ectropion of the lower lid, from a deep scar of moderate size, if not too near a commissure, the old operation of Dieffenbach is still practised. The adherent portion is encompassed by three straight incisions that form a triangle with its base near and parallel with the free border. The area thus enclosed is excised. From either extremity of the incision forming the base of the triangle, start a short incision, each about one-half the length of said base, both lightly curving, the one down and out, the other clown and in. The upper lip of the whole incision is undermined up to the lid 19