ECTROPION AND BLEPHAROPLASTY. 287 paralysis of the orbicularis, with ectropion, the most satisfactory single operation, taken all in all, is probably the median tarsorrhaphy. It will more surely relieve the troubles from epiphora and from exposure of the globe and prove more lasting as to its benefits. Operations for Cicatricial Ectropion and Other Blepharo- plasty.—It is customary to make two subjects of the above terms and to treat them separately. Technically, one means a turning out of the lid from a cicatrix and the other, plastic surgery, for the restoration of the lid Seeing that some part is destroyed in almost all cases of the ectropion under discussion and must be restored, it is a pretty difficult matter to disunite the two, even in theory, and as to actual practice, they are one. In all that has been written on " blepharoplasty" a vast majority of the cases cited have been those of cicatricial ectropion. An operation for the restoration of any part of the nose is rhinoplasty; for any part of the lip, chiloplasty— why go on trying to perpetuate "a distinction without a difference ?" This is the most common, as well as the most serious form of ectropion and the most difficult to handle. A glance at the more frecpient causes of partial or complete destruction of the eyelids and the kinds of cicatrices they leave may not be amiss. First in the list stand burns from fire or chemicals. These are apt to be deeper, in the first instance, seeing that the victim often receives the injury as a helpless babe, or invalid (epileptic), and the contact is prolonged; while, in the second (those from strong caustics and acids) they usually affect the skin only. Next in point of frecpiency is epithelioma, or rodent ulcer, which, when situated in the region of the tarsus, usually destroys the whole thickness of the lid within the ulcerated area. The scars from syphilis and lupus, like those from fire, although the disease is primarily from the skin, are liable to penetrate beyond it. Another cause of cicatricial ectropion that has come well to the front, particularly in the vicinity of Chicago, is blastomycosis or blastomycetic dermatitis. The resulting scar rarely reaches below the superficial fascia. The gravest cases will sometimes tax the resources and per- severence of the surgeon to the utmost and, unfortunately, exhaust those of the patient completely. As before hinted, the nature of the primary injury and its extent, considered together with its date, will govern in the choice and compass of the surgical measure