459 KM'CI.KA I IOX. junction with the sclera. The globe is now held well forward, with the fingers, while the tendons of the obliques and the few remaining attachments are cut. Slight modifications of this operation or a much altered form of it devised by Von Aril,1 of Vienna, constitute the methods now- practised, and they are referred to as the Bound and as the Vienna methods. In the Von Arlt enucleation the hook is dispensed with. An assistant usually holds the lids apart with the Desmarres' retractors. We will suppose the right eye is to be removed. The operator stands at the patient's right side. With the forceps a fold of conjunctiva is picked up in the horizontal meridian, close to the nasal limbus of die cornea, and snipped. The blunt point of a pair of small curved scissors is put through the opening, the conjunctiva is incised all around, save for a small bridge at the temporal side, then dissected from the sclera and shoved well back. The tendon of the internus is seized with the forceps, and thus held throughout the rest of the operation. The blunted scissors blade is slid beneath the tendon, and the latter is cut back of the forceps. The globe is rotated downward, the scissors inserted beneath the superior tendon, which is divided Hush with the sclera. The eye is rotated upward, and, in similar manner, the inferior tendon is severed. The globe is now rotated somewhat outward, while the closed scissors are passed behind it at the nasal side to locate the optic nerve, then opened to cut it. The bulbus is lifted out of its socket, the obliques are detached, and, lastly, the externus, the bridge of conjunctiva, and all remaining connections are cut away. Agnew's Method.—The mode of enucleating that has always commended itself most strongly to the author is a phase of the Bonnet operation adopted by the late C. R. Agnew, of New York. I have never seen a published description of this procedure, but my conception of it and mode of making it, from having seen Dr. Agnew perform it a number of times, is here given. The instru- ments required are blepharostat (or, better, provided an efficient aid is available, Desmarres, retractors), fixation forceps, without catch, mouse-tooth forceps, Stevens' strabismus scissors, a pair of stronger blunt scissors, curved on the flat, and two medium-size 'Zeitsch. der Wiener Aerzte, 1851), and Handb. von Graefe und Saemish, 1874.