i88 OPERATIONS UPON THE EXTRESISIC MUSCLES. tenonectomy—as an adjunct to the rest of the procedure has been employed, in some measure, by almost every ophthalmic surgeon who ever made a veritable advancement operation, but as a single measure it has not been given wide application. For my part, I believe it to be a measure that deserves more consideration in the professional mind than it enjoys—in this country, at least. Surely, it is as much to be commended as is the operation of tendon folding. Yet were its popularity commensurate with the number of different modes that have been proposed for the performance of it, its place in ophthalmology were assured. On the continent of Europe resection does not go abegging. resection to date is that of Schweigger2 (Fig. 79). After tenotomy of the opposite muscle a horizontal incision is made through conjunc- tiva and capsule, over the center of the tendon to be excised. A flat, curved hook is inserted beneath the tendon and shoved back and forth to free and spread it out. A second hook is then inserted, but from the opposite side. While one hook is pushed up snug against the insertion, the other is pushed backward till from 8 to 10 mm. of the tendon are exposed. With the help of an aid, the amount of tendon to be resected is measured off with a tiny tape, something like a strabometer—also Schweigger's invention—bearing a mm. scale whose zero is in the center, and the points marked by slight nicks in the edge of the tendon. Two double-armed catgut sutures are ready. These are put in, one or two mm. back of the posterior nick; the One of the first to give prominence to such muscle shortening was Vieusse,1 who cut the tendon a short distance behind its inser- tion, abscised from the posterior portion what was requisite for the case, and united the cut ends by two sutures. Fig. 79.—Schweigger's resection operation for squint. Probably the most ex- tensively practised of any 1 Record d'opht., 1875, p. 330. 2 A. F. A., 29, p. 165, 1894.