INDICATIONS. H3 lining of the nasal duct should be removed, the operation would better be called "extirpation of the lacrimal canal." There is considerable diversity of opinion among ophthalmic surgeons both as to the indications for this operation and as to its gravity. The elder Knapp,1 for instance, considers it too radical a measure to be resorted to unless other modes of treatment have failed. Among these he even numbers the repeated openings of the anterior wall and thorough cauterization—extending over weeks and months—because they are less terrible to the patient and freer from the dangers of suppuration and orbital cellulitis. Whereas, the younger Knapp2 considers the operation much less formidable and resorts to it often, as in chronic suppuration of the canal that does not yield readily to antiseptic treatment in recurrent abscess, in dilatation of the sac, whether the contents can be expressed or not, and in lacrimal fistula. The operation is undoubtedly grow- ing in popularity, and the indications for making it are broadening more and more. It may be confidently asserted that it affords the quickest, surest and most satisfactory means of curing most of the really bad chronic cases. Indications.—Among these may be classed all those trouble- some affections of the lacrimal passage in which more conservative methods either cannot or may not be effectively carried out, such as 1. Chronic dacryocystitis with mucocele and excessive distention of the sac. 2. Chronic suppuration of the canal with recurrent, phlegmonous inflammation, or caries of neighboring bony structures, or fungosi- ties, and with or without fistula. 3. Incurable obliteration of some portion, as of the nasal duct, through disease or traumatism, with troublesome epiphora. When the status, as per either of the first two classifications is present, some form of quick riddance, either by obliteration or extirpation, becomes imperative under the following conditions, viz.: (1) If an operation that necessitates the cutting into the globe, wounding of the cornea, or opening of Tenon's capsule is demanded for the eye which is involved, as, for examples, extraction, pter- ygium, strabismus and enucleation. (2) If there exists, on the side 1 Norris and Oliver, "System," pp. 902 and 903. 2 Arch, of Oph., July, 1903.