169 I'KXDON A I »\' \ \ (' I Ml N I . or it may recede to a greater or a lesser distance, depending upon wherever it can find an attachment or can come to rest. To divide the tendon all from one side leaving a single border uncut tends to produce torsion of the globe. Probably the least doubtful way of obtaining a definite degree of effect is to make section of all but the outermost fibres of the tendon, then resort to one of the several guy-threads such as have been invented by Graefe, Knapp, Griming, and others. These consist mostly in passing a ligature through the episcleral or scleral tissue, close to the cornea on the opposite side to that whereon the tenotomy occurs, whereby the globe is pulled into extreme duction, when the ligature is coiled upon the temple or nose as the case may be, and there fastened with collodionized cotton. The ligature is a source of both pain and danger. Another somewhat less positive but much safer method is to make section of the entire tendon, drop it back the desired distance, and fix it there by a thread. This operation will be described later under "Curb Tenotomy." Were I asked to name the indications for tenotomy of a rectus muscle, I should say buttonholing the center of the tendon at the time an advancement is made on its antagonist to prevent, by weakening it, the cutting out of the thread used in the advancement, and complete tenotomy only in case of abnormal shortness of the muscle, as it is found in certain cases, as, for example, congenital strabismus—then always with the curb suture just alluded to. These are, in my opinion, the only two indications. 2. Tendon Advancement.—Dieffenbach, of Berlin, attempted advancement of the retracted muscle for the secondary squint that occurred after one of his myotomies as early as the year 1842, but the results were not gratifying. Guerin,1 of Nancy, was the first to make practicable such a procedure. He, too, was incited to make the operation by a desire to relieve secondary squint, many instances of which were all about—the ugly fruits of the (then) new fad of muscle-cutting. Just the precise technic these surgeons adopted I have not, as yet, been able to ascertain. One of the first published descriptions of an advancement operation is that of 1 Ann. d'oculist.-, vol. xxii, 1849.