159 KINDS OF SQUINT. All squints are divided into two grand classes, depending upon whether the eyes are or are not, under certain conditions, able to assume their normal relative positions. The older and less rational terms to denote the two classes were non-paralytic and paralytic. Non-paralytic strabismus was called concomitant. The later and better terms are comitant and incomitant. The first includes all those in which the direction of the eyes might, through the influence of the will, the effect of artificial lenses, the action of drugs, narcosis, etc., become normal in any part of the held of fixation. To the second belong all the others, whether the squint be due to paralysis, paresis, from any cause, or to congenital shortness of a muscle. A further classification of squint is into constant monolateral, alternating, and intermittent. In the first class the deflection is always confined to the same eye; in the second, it is first of one eye and then of the other. In the third, the squint is absent part of the time and, when present, may be either monolateral or alter- nating. By far the most common form of squint is the convergent. A still further classification is into primary and secondary squint. The former comprises all save those unfortunate cases in which deviation of an opposite kind has followed the too free severance of a muscle from the globe (overtenotomy) or the prolonged wearing of the full correction for excessive hyperopia. Then there is that state of the ocular muscles in which there is more or less tendency of an eye to wander, and actual squint is prevented only by a corresponding degree of conscious or uncon- scious muscular effort. This is referred to as latent squint or suppressed squint. It is also the dynamic strabismus of Von Graefe, and the heterophoria of Stevens. The same general surgical principles are applicable to all forms of squint—latent or manifest—yet they must be variously modified to answer the demands of individual cases. With rarest exception but one eye squints, while the other fixes, and the two are designated as squinting eye and fixing or working eye. The fact that the squint is confined to one eye does not imply that but one eye is concerned in the defect. As first pointed out by Donders, and since abundantly verified, strabismus is usually a bilateral affection. Nor does it follow that the fixing eye is pos- sessed of a better muscular system than the squinting one. Often