144 OPERATIONS UPON THE APPENDAGES OF THE EYE. of the diseased lacrimal passage, a defect of the cornea that renders it peculiarly vulnerable to infection, such as an ulcer, a cystoid cicatrix, or partial staphyloma. (3) If the patient is or is soon to be so circumstanced that prolonged conservative treatment is out of the question. Extirpation is usually done under complete narcosis, though I have frequently made the operation without an anesthetic, with comparatively little inconvenience to the patient and very decided advantage to the operator. Anesthesia, by the Schleich process I do not approve of, for it interferes with that nice differentiation of tissue that is one of the greatest requirements for the success of such surgery. Cocain solution put into the opening is useless for the relief of pain, and worse than useless because of its effect on the blood-vessels. Following the lead of those who inject solidifying solutions into the sac I have, in a few instances, tried with satisfaction the filling of the sac with melted paraffin (Wilder) that congeals at a temperature considerably higher than that of the body—say at no° to i2o°F. To obviate too free entrance of the paraffin into the nose and throat it should not be too hot, but somewhat thick—like cold molasses. Where degenerative changes in the wall have not been too great, the difficulties attendant upon the shelling out of sac are appreciably lessened by having it thus made into a firm tumor. One of our internes, recently serving in the Illinois Eye and Ear Infirmary, Dr. Fullenwider, suggested the use of fine, dental plaster which seems to answer yet better than the paraffin. Those substances, the paraffin melted (previously boiled) and the plaster, made into a thin emulsion with sterilized water to which a little salt is added, are injected through the dilated punctum by means of the syringe described on page 129, using the conical canula. C. R. Holmes, of Cincinnati, uses a thick paste of starch colored with iodin, and Valude, of Paris, has recommended spermaceti. One must be careful not to use undue force in the performance, else a rupture will occur and the material be driven into the adjacent tissues. Should this occur in the use of a non-absorbable material and steps be not at once taken to remedy, either a permanent deformity or a subsequent operation will be the result. Therefore, if the surgeon is aware of such an accident before closing the external incision,