263 ENTROPION. ORGANIC OR CICATRICIAL complicated with incurvation of the tarsus, counter-grooving must be joined with the other steps, and so on. As a matter of fact, the instances are exceedingly rare that are not all the better for giving one's patient the benefit of the whole category. For, if all the phases mentioned are not present in the particular case, owing to the never-ending progressiveness of the affection—on and on for years after all apparent traces of the primary disease have vanished —what the several parts of the operation do not accomplish in the way of actual cure, they will achieve as preventives. Another element that must be taken into consideration in defining the limits of an operation for entropion of the upper lid, especially when caused by trachoma, is the age of the subject. Those who come to us suffering from this disorder represent every period of life between ten and seventy years. I have known three generations of a single family to be under treatment at the same time. Naturally, in view of the perpetuity of the degenerative changes of the tarsus involved, one must strive for greater effect in cases of children and the younger adults whose lives are before them than in those of the middle-aged and the elderly, if it is hoped that the best results of one's work are to endure till the end. How great, then, should be the effect ? More than twenty years of service as surgeon to the Illinois Charitable Eye and Ear In- firmary, an institution whose outdoor and hospital clientele com- prises some 12,000 new patients annually—of whom a large propor- tion were, a few years ago, admitted because of entropion from trachoma—have given the writer exceptional opportunities in this line of surgery, both as participant and observer. Unlike those whom we treat in private practice are these wards of the State. When their troubles recur they come back or are sent back to us, and it is almost a daily occurrence to see one return with an ag- gravated type of entropion, who a few years before, had been operated upon and "cured" of the same trouble in the same lids. It sometimes happens, too, that the recurrence is more pronounced than had been the first form. Certainly, the difficulties of the second attempt at restitution are in no way lightened by what was done at the first. ()n the other hand, it is much to be doubted if a well- made operation for cicatricial entropion has ever been followed by too great an effect. Many a one has resulted in lagophthalmos