544 EXTRACTION OF CATARACT. head, struck the patient a severe blow on the right temple, when he immediately felt that something had happened to the bad eye. Condition on admission: Right eye painful, conjunctiva injected, large cataractous lens in anterior chamber, upward coloboma of the iris. Vision nil. Left eye normal. Operation at once. Eserin was used, but owing to the previous iridectomy, it had scarcely any effect upon the pupil. While the eye was being put under cocain, I remarked to those around that it would be neces- sary to introduce a needle to hold up the lens, else it might drop through the large opening into the vitreous. The words were scarcely uttered before, through a quick movement of the eye, the cataract disappeared in the manner suggested. I then turned the man over on his stomach with his face projecting beyond the end of the table and asked him to let me manipulate his head as if it were not attached to his body. By this means the cataract was brought again into the anterior chamber. He was turned on his right side, a delicate Bowman needle was inserted, from the nasal limbus, behind the lens, he was turned further so as to lie somewhat on his back, a downward section of the cornea made and the cataract ex- tracted without other accidents. Recovery was prompt and the eye appearing normal afterward, save for the old coloboma. Case 6. Example of Extraction of Swollen Lens Causing Severe Secondary Glaucoma After Discission for High Myopia.—The citation of this case serves more, perhaps, to point a moral than to adorn a chapter on the surgery of the eye. Sophia Lee, 12 years old, Chinese girl, came under treatment May 5, 1900, wearing — 1 o D over both eyes. Could no longer see well at a distance with her glasses. Tests then showed R. V.= 2/200; 20/50 w —16. L. V. = 2/200; 20/70 w —16. Cylinders did not improve. Ophthal- moscope showed small conus and very striking fundus tigree in both eyes. Advised discissions. September 11, 1900, tentative discission in left eye, very slight reaction; September 20, 1900, more thorough discission in left eye. Crystalline very soon broke up and by February 1, 1901, had all disappeared, leaving a small capsular band across the pupil. Test showed, L. V. =10/200; 20/30+w —2.5 c ax 1550. April 1, 1901, first slight discission in right eye. No special reaction. April 23, 1901, more decided operation—capsule and lens well incised.