392 OPERATIONS UPON THE GLOBE. choroidal hemorrhage is apt to follow ablation. Gradually, there- fore, the operation, without exenteration, has lost favor, and the one with has found it. Notwithstanding the fact that a number of surgeons still resort to the first form, the writer believes that it has had its day, and deserves no better fate. Partial staphyloma of the cornea may be anything from (a) a tiny bead no larger than a pin-head to a tumor the size of a pea, centrally located, and composed only of Descemet's membrane, translucent or whitish in color, and more or less thickened; or (b) a globular mass of varying size, situated somewhat less centrally, composed partly of changed iris tissue, and dark in color in pro- portion to the amount of pigment or the thinness of the outer cover- ing, and is in full communication with the anterior chamber. Again (c) it may occupy the extreme periphery, where it is made up in great part of the iris, is of many sizes, and is connected with the aqueous chamber only by a fistulous tunnel. This is known as cystoid scar. The last two are prone to progressiveness, often reaching enormous proportions—the latter especially; eventually dragging in the ciliary body and other parts of the globe. Hence, it is of the greatest importance that surgical measures be instituted at the earliest possible moment. (a) A touch of the heated cautery tip or a simple incision, with proper rest and bandaging afterward, is usually sufficient for the first class. A very few will be found of sufficient size to oblige the cutting out of an elliptical piece. This is done with cataract knife and iris scissors. {b) Glaucoma is a frequent attendant of the second variety. If the tumor is of incipient size and quite recent, amounting to a simple hernia of the iris, one may be able to mobilize the iris with the spatula, then draw it out somewhat with iris forceps, and snip it off, or to cause its disappearance by one or two applications of the cautery. If the tumor is larger, particularly if the intraocular tension is high, an iridectomy will be required in connection with cautery or incision or abscission, whichever of the three, in the judgment of the operator, is called for. For these more trouble- some cases with shallow anterior chambers, a very narrow Graefe knife, one that has been reduced by many sharpening^, will be found invaluable for making the incision to get at the iris; a pair of minia-