RELATIVE MERITS OF SMALL AND LARGE MAGNETS. 657 manageable, and now, with the more powerful model, reinforced to the utmost, a lifting capacity can be obtained that almost makes it equal to some of the so-called "giants." In a case of recent foreign body in the vitreous the hand-magnet has been able to draw the metal through the lens and into the anterior chamber; and to extract one through a scleral opening without letting the tip come in contact with the globe. Again, there have been cases where neither the sideroscope nor the giant magnet got any response from a foreign body in the vitreous, yet it was extracted by the small magnet through a scleral incision. It may be pretty safely asserted that most authorities are decidedly against drawing the foreign bodies from the vitreous into the anterior chamber unless the wound of entrance has been through the cornea. And Mayweg, who is recognized as an impartial as well as an able critic, has compiled careful statistics tending to prove that the scleral route, with incision, gives the best results even with the giant magnet. It would seem, then, that the fault of the scleral route did not lie with the incision. With what is it? Probably insufficient localization, disregard of the vitreous, etc. The great distinctive feature of the giant magnet is that it has a drawing power far in excess of that of the hand-magnet, thus permit- ting extraction from without; and not, as has been so generally asserted, the fact that it does not necessitate further opening of the globe. This same power has led, in some quarters, to a contempt for localization or for diagnosis as to the mere presence of a foreign body, the claim being that if one is present, there is a good chance of bringing it out—if not, no harm is done. Hirschberg declares that it is precisely that enormous strength that constitutes the clanger, and condemns its employment for diagnostic purposes. He denies its efficiency in this capacity, and says that he has seen more than a dozen cases in which such trials proved negative; nevertheless, a piece of metal was located and extracted through a scleral incision in each. Hirschberg considers the large magnet useful in loosening foreign bodies that are held fast, and particularly so in removing small ones that lie in the remote parts of the vitreous chamber, as also for cases of long standing. In recent cases Haab very justly rates the importance of localization as secondary to that of quick extraction, but insists upon the value of Knowing the situation of 42