ENUCLEATION. 4f>7 insignificant trace. Paraffin is treacherous in that it is prone to change its location even when not expelled. Dr. Chibret, of Clermont-Ferrand, conceived the original idea of replacing the enucleated eye by that of the pig—"Idee Audacicuse." But it succeeded, in a measure. Then Prof. Rohmer, of Nancy, after having made several implantations of the eyes of animals in the peritoneal cavity, with positive results, grafted in man, in case of a blind subject, whose eye was lost from iridocyclitis and enucleated, an eye of the rabbit in Tenon's capsule. But after 2 weeks the implant was eliminated, and Rohmer, discouraged, gave up the experiment. Then Prof. Lagrange, without knowledge of Rohmer's1 experience, undertook the same researches, published in 1901, with encouraging results. In his first article and in another, published in La Clinique Ophtalmologique, 1901, he declared thai the result depends solely upon the choice of method that is made for the operation. Some years afterward, in 1905, Lagrange made to the French Society of Ophthalmology at Paris a new communication upon the subject. Wicherkiewicz, of Krakow, was present and saw the patients operated upon by Lagrange, and listened to the discussion which occurred. It was Rohmer who then declared that, in time, all these transplanted eyes undergo complete absorption. He contended that Lagrange would soon be disillusioned, and would return to the transplantation of balls of paraffin. Operation of Lagrange.—He used silk threads to unite the severed tendons. After enucleating the eye he employed iced compresses to arrest the hemorrhage. He then introduced the eye of a rabbit, of appropriate size, the cornea backward. Over this the recti tendons were united, in opposing pairs, and, lastly, the conjunctival opening was closed by sutures. The predecessors of Lagrange—Chibret, Rohmer, Terrien and Bradfort—gave to the transplanted eye its normal orientation, i.e., cornea forward, which sometimes led to disaster, such as ulceration, perforation, and loss of vitreous. The divergence of opinion of his eminent confreres caused Wicherkiewicz,2 to undertake to satisfy himself personally as to 1 Annates d'Oculistique, iii. 2 L'Ophthalmologie Provinciate, March, 1909.