479 GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS. It is not to be expected that there should actually be a normal lacrimal passage—even mucocele does not deter some good men. Old, burnt out stages of trachoma, provided there is not entropion, with trichiasis, etc., may be ignored. Bacteriologic investigation of the apparently healthy conjunctiva preliminary to extraction might seem to be unnecessary, yet it is really important as it oc- casionally reveals an incipient infection that would positively pro- hibit the operation for the time. Suppuration of the lacrymal canal, when very slight, is best dealt with by ligation of the canal with a single thread, just at the union of the two canaliculi, immediately preceding the extraction; i.e., when the patient is on the table for the latter. With the more profuse and chronic forms, however, it is best not to temporize, but at once to extirpate the sac and as much as its practicable of the canaliculi. (See "Operations upon the Lacrimal Apparatus." Pterygium, progressive or encroaching upon the pupil should first be removed. The skin of the lids should be fairly free from disease. Condition of the Globe.—First and foremost, there must be tolerable light perception, if not projection. One must judge of the individual case. Black cataracts and those with very thick or calcific anterior capsules may very greatly interfere with these functions, even though the deeper structures be normal. On the other hand, many eyes characterized by chronic or very old choroidal and retinal lesions and affections may give most gratifying results after extraction. The Cornea.—Opacity of this membrane, so long as it alone does not preclude the possibility of useful sight, should not prohibit extraction. Arcus senilis presents no special obstacles to the heal- ing process, though it is likely to cause "grooving" of the wound made for extraction. The Iris and Pupil.—Only some active pathological process of the iris would be cause for non-interference. It is highly desirable to have a normal iris and a pupil that reacts well to light, yet if dealt with as the exigencies of the case demand, one need not hesitate to operate even when there is a very great departure from the normal. One of the author's most satisfying cases is that of a woman, blind in both eyes from anterior uveitis, exclusion and occlusion of pupils, opacity of the lenses, and even opacity of the lower halves of the