KINDS or IRIDKCTOMY AM) TIIKIR INDICATIONS. 433 there be a tendency to glaucoma. In complete exclusion of the pupil, unless there be occlusion besides, the coloboma is made to reestablish communication between the anterior and posterior chambers, and is best made upward, so as to lie beneath the upper lid; if the exclusion is incomplete, however, the position of the coloboma will be determined by that of the free section of the pupillary border. This is ascertained by noting the effect of a mydriatic upon the contour of the pupil. Associated with these conditions the iris is apt to present the symptomatic appearance known as " crater-shape," and iris bombe, due to a bulging forward of the free middle zone by pressure of the aqueous in the posterior chamber. It must not be supposed that this peculiar configuration of the surface of the iris always indicates that the middle zone is not adherent to the lens capsule. The apparent bellying forward may be but the swelling caused by the infiltration or the thickening to which this region of the iris is more prone, and there may be total posterior synechia. Under such conditions, iridectomy under- taken for either therapeutic or optic purposes, is almost sure to be a disappointment; for, aside from the difficulty of making an ade- quate incision, it is usually impossible to excise any but the stroma of the iris, leaving the uvea still adherent to the capsule. True, most gratifying results can, exceptionally, be obtained even where the plight is most unpromising, as note the case of Mrs. K., cited under "Specially Complicated Extractions." In these extreme cases, however, where there is total posterior synechia, especially where exists, in addition, occlusion of the pupil, obliteration of the anterior chamber, and, above all, glaucomatous tension, iridec- tomy and extraction combined, after the manner of deWenzel (see page 540), is oftenest the more fitting measure. If, on the other hand, the intraocular tension is markedly low, its association with the other features just enumerated constitutes a positive contraindication as regards iridectomy and extraction. Neither could a few isolated points of adhesion between iris and lens be construed as a cause for iridectomy unless, perchance, all other forms of treatment have failed to stop the repeated attacks of iritis. b. Iridectomy for Glaucoma.—It is herein that the operation performs its highest function. This is particularly true of it in con- nection with acute idiopathic glaucoma, in which relation it has been 28