CHOICE OF METHOD. 20I strabismus with unnatural shortness of the muscle or muscles. If this were suspected, it could be differentiated from spasmodic squint by placing the patient under ethyl chlorid, nitrous oxid, or similar anesthetic, and testing the rotation of the eye with forceps. Then, too, there is that class where, without any brevity of muscle in the direction of the deviation, motility in the opposite direction is so very limited, and the degree of deflection is so high, that it is a foregone conclusion, particularly if the patient belongs to the lower and irresponsible station of life, that it is merely a question as to whether one operates at once or leaves a permanent squint. Choice of Method.—Where there are so many effective modes this would seem to be largely a matter of individual preference. If one has happened upon or selected a method with which he has become familiar, and been uniformly pleased, he is not apt to exchange it for another. There are a few squint operations for which their authors do not claim universal application, yet any measure that is capable of causing 25 to 30 degrees of redressment of a squint is sufficient for all cases, provided both eyes are operated upon. There are relatively few instances wherein the deviation exceeds 50 degrees, and if it is better, as is pretty well agreed, since the affection in question is a binocular one, that the corresponding muscle of both eyes be operated, then the need of bilateral interfer- ence is all the more urgent. In ]practice, however, we cannot always count upon an opportunity of making a second operation, but may often wish to make a single sitting suffice. If one has scruples against tenotomy as a means of curing squint, he would, then, prefer an operation that, all things else being equal, would give the maximum of effect. But are all things else equal? The maximum of effect could doubtless be obtained by most any of the shortening processes, either folding or resection, but would the result be in every way as good as after a true advancement? The advocates of the latter would say, "No!" They believe that to give the muscle the greatest power or leverage over the globe, it should be given an attachment forward of its original one, and it is in this that a veritable advancement mainly consists; that, while there are most excellent measures among the shortening operations, their sphere is limited to the lower degrees of squint. Admitting that they who prefer advancement are right, what kind of an advancement can