483 PREPARATION OF THE EYE. tion from the conjunctiva occurs. This procedure I consider not only unnecessary, but positively injudicious, since the mere occlusion of the eye actually tends to an abnormal secretion through retention and consequent proliferation of bacteria normally present. At the time appointed for the extraction, the patient is washed, combed, clad in a nightdress, over which is worn a heavier garment (sterilized), such as a bathrobe, and the feet are encased in warm, sterilized hospital slippers. Preparation of the Eye.—As stated elsewhere, it is the writer's custom to instill a drop of atropin solution into the eye about one hour previous to the operation. After one hour the relaxation of the iris is pronounced enough, in the average case, to bring about the desired results. The indiscriminate or prolonged use of mydri- atics in the eyes of elderly individuals is not without its risks, chief among which is hypertension of the globe, with its train of troubles. Then the general toxic effect is thought to increase the liability of postoperative delirium. Having applied the one drop to the eye, no more is instilled unless something in the after-treatment calls for it. The mydriasis, which disappears with the escape of the aqueous, reasserts itself, but in a feeble manner, after the healing of the incision. It matters not whether the simple or the combined method of extraction is contemplated, the mydriasis favors either expulsion of the lens, or the withdrawing of the iris for iridectomy. For the first examination of the eye, we often wish to use a mydri- atic to satisfy ourselves as to how far the pupil is dilatable and as to the appearance of the peripheral portions of the cataract, for which purposes cocain, perhaps, is the best, as its effect is transient, and it lias not the tendency to excite ovcrtension possessed by most other mydriatics. It has been argued that mydriasis leads to ex- trusion and entanglement of the iris at the incision. I take the ground that there is no such involvement excepting when the anterior chamber is empty or in the act of emptying, at which times the mydriasis cannot be a factor, as it is then practically absent. Immediately before putting the patient on the table the eye is given its final cleansing, which consists of