456 OPERATIONS UPON THE GLOBE. occurs before the excision of the iris, the latter is likely to be rendered difficult. The only indication of the break, perhaps, is the sudden deepening of the anterior chamber, more marked on the side where the incision is situated, provided the iris has not followed the knife into the wound. The backward slant of the iris, suspended in vitreous, makes the use of the forceps for its withdrawal impracti- cable, so, unless a spontaneous prolapse has taken place, the blunt or sharp hook must be substituted. Should the vitreous present at, or escape from, the wound before the withdrawal of the iris, it would be well to postpone the operation save in the event of most pressing need of an iridectomy. As soon as it is evident that the hyaloid has given way, all extraneous pressure upon the globe is quickly reduced to the minimum, and the eye is closed. Blepharo- stat, fixation forceps, etc., are discarded. If it is decided to go ahead with the excision, an assistant retracts the lids with instru- ments or with his fingers. If the pupillary border of the iris is visible, it is grasped with the blunt hook, if not, one may, when sure of his hand, attempt to seize the membrane with the sharp hook, catching in the stroma just where it is folded backward. It is worse than useless, however, to try to get the iris out when it is completely introverted. In cases where the luxation of the lens is discovered prior to the operation or where loss of vitreous is feared, the writer would recommend the Angelucci fixation, i.e., grasping the tendon- ous portion of the superior rectus, as described under "Extraction." A trained assistant is necessary. As the surgeon completes the primary section, the helper takes from him the knife and gives the traction instrument—forceps or hook. Then, as the surgeon pulls out the iris, the assistant is ready with the scissors to cut it off, which, having been accomplished, the hold on the tendon is released and the lids closed. Of course, the fixation forceps has no catch. This is one of the few instances where the keratome with bayonet shank may be found serviceable. 10. Blood in the Anterior Chamber.—This comes from the cut or torn iris or from the incised conjunctiva. Bleeding is always more profuse when the eye is under the secondary effect of either cocain or adrenal solution. Blood in the anterior chamber is chiefly objectionable when it accumulates to considerable degree directly the incision is finished, in that it conduces to faulty technic