415 EXENTERATION OF THE SCLERA. arc scraped away with the knife or sharp curet. A small flattish curct with finely serrated edge is best. Having been assured that nothing is left behind, the opening is immediately closed by several horizontal silk sutures, allowing the oozing blood to fill the scleral capsule if it will. No attempt is made to stop the moderate oozing of blood, but rather it is encouraged, by mild curetment if necessary, so as to insure a clot of sufficient size to Jill the scleral capsule, with the view to its becoming organized, thus adding to the efficiency of the stump. The eye is bandaged in the usual way. For some reason there seems to be even less chemosis following the vertical incision than the horizontal, and the cleft, just alluded to, does not ensue. In case after case the parts involved have remained abso- lutely cpuiet. The sutures are removed after 3 or 4 days. Union is usually by first intention. If it is not, a small round hole may appear, which slowly closes. I have never seen any harm come of it. There is pretty free bleeding wdiile the separation of the choroid is going on, but it does not materially interfere. Of course, the lens and the vitreous escape as soon as the globe is well open. Exenteration is indicated in all instances where it has been the custom to make enucleation, save where exists sympathetic ophthal- mia, a neoplasm of the globe, or phthistis so advanced that only a tiny, shapeless button remains. I would not even except those in which sympathetic trouble is impending, nor would I those in which it is already present but for the popular prejudice of the profession. Yet more, I would, and do, add all the cases of total staphyloma of the cornea. For, as before stated, ablation of the staphyloma ful- fills none of the indications, or, if any, does it poorly, while exentera- tion meets them all and meets them well. For all but the cases mentioned as exceptions, it is not only a much better pro- cedure than enucleation, in view of the objects desired, but all the evidence points to its being a safer one. All those parts that have been deemed a menace to the fellow eye are as effectually gotten rid of as by enucleation. As to the growth of new nerve structures within the exenterated sclera, discovered by Forget,1 and mentioned as a possible source of discomfort, if not of danger, it would seem quite as easy for this to occur within the capsular envelope which remains after enucleation. As to the conditions for the wearing of 1 Arch, d'opht., t. xii, 1892, p. 693.