556 EXTRACTION OF CATARACT. the convexity of the shaft is turned forward, the instrument pushed inward, either between the posterior surface of the iris, or, which would be more likely—seeing the space is nil or very slight—• beneath or through the anterior capsule itself. Then on until the point nears the inner border of the pupil, somewhat above the center, or until the stop touches the sclera. Holding the stop firmly against the sclera, as a fulcrum, a movement of the handle is made whereby the cataract is swung out and down so as to rest with its posterior surface between the insertion of the external and that of the inferior rectus. Having pressed the cataract lightly down against the ciliary body and choroid, it is held so for a few moments, the better to insure its remaining there, the movement of the handle is reversed and the convexity of the needle brought back against the iris, when a pause is made lest the lens bob up and have to be depressed a second time. The quarter turn is made to again put the convexity upward, when the instrument is withdrawn in the same position as when introduced. Among the immediate accidents of the operation were dislocation into the anterior chamber, the breaking up of the lens, and the entanglement of the needle in iris or nucleus of the cataract. When the first fruits of the labor of v. Graefe and his disciples with the linear method became apparent, the day of reclination began to decline. It grew darker and darker with the perfection of the flap extraction, and it was totally eclipsed in Europe and America by the advent of aseptic surgery. It is still extensively practised by native surgeons in several of the Asiatic countries. Captain Henry Smith1 reports having extracted sixty-nine cataracts from the eyes of natives of India that had formerly been couched and afterward rose to obstruct the pupil. One could imagine circumstances under which the operation would still be admissible. Discission.—This operation, which consists in puncturing or cutting the lens with a needle or a small knife, like that of depression, is also of very ancient origin, and was mentioned by Galen as having been practised by the "ancients." Indeed, the idea was but the natural outcome of the displacement measure, seeing that in case the lens matter was liquid, or only semisolid, and the 1 Ind. Med. Gaz., xxxvi, p. 224.