OPERATIONS UPON THE CONJUNCTIVA. 352 • he well-applied flap by temporarily drawing the conjunctiva partly over it with a suture. The flap should be slid directly from the razor to the globe. It should be cut large enough, and, after cover- ing the defect on the globe, the excess on the temporal side is trimmed off so as to leave bare the cornea and a strip of sclera about 1/16 inch wide between it and the flap." What appears at a glance to be a recidivation is sometimes but the vascularized and otherwise changed condition of the cornea in the locality that had been occupied by the pterygium. This may . or may not wholly clear up. The immediate status of the vision after the removal of pterygia that encroach even very slightly upon the pupillary area is apt to be disappointing, owing to the fact that there is usually some disturbance of the cornea which extends be- yond the apparent limits of the growth. A little time is required for this to disappear. PERITOMY AND PERIDECTOMY. According to the researches of Hirschberg the Arabian surgeons, early in the Middle Ages, made circumcision of the cornea for the pannus of trachoma. In the year 1862, Fournari or Furnari,1 of Paris, afterward of the University of Palermo, published the description and the results of his experience with an operative measure which he claimed to have employed with success while previously, for twenty years, a resident of Algeria. The author called it tonsure de la conjonctive bulbaire. It consisted in the excision of a ring of the conjunctiva immediately surrounding the cornea and the applica- tion of nitrate of silver to the annular defect, together with the scarification of the anomalous corneal blood-vessels. Afterward the operation was named peridectomy, and still later syndectomy, both of which words refer to the removal of the aforesaid ring of conjunctiva, and, strictly speaking, should be so used in contradis- tinction to peritomy. This last is a term that was applied by Critchett, of London, to a modification of Furnari's operation, which he devised. The chief change suggested by Critchett was that the word implies, viz., the lGaz. med. de Paris, 1862, Nos. 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 14 et Annal. d'oc, 1863, t. xlix, p. 272.