IMMEDIATE ACCIDENTS, ETC. 5J3 gape and drop the iris from its lips. Failing in this to restore it, the spatula is introduced edgewise at the incision, with a sort of slicing motion, which corrects the middle portion. Then, if there be still any caught in the angles, they are gently poked back into place with the end of the instrument. 19. Accident.—Collapse of the cornea. If this membrane is very thin and the subject is aged, especially if much cocain has been used, as soon as the lens is expelled, the convexity of the cornea becomes reversed, a more or less deep concavity taking its place. This hampers the manipulation of lens remains and dealing with the iris, and if lavage of the anterior chamber has a place, this must be it. There could, at any rate, be no objection to the filling of the anterior chamber with warm normal salt solution merely to facilitate maneuvers relative to the cortex and iris. This is not a serious casualty, and usually all that is necessary is simply to wait a few minutes for the anterior chamber to refill. The eye should be protected by a piece of wet cotton in the meantime. 20. Accident.—Expulsive or retrochoroidal hemorrhage. This deplorable calamity, which is always fatal to the sight and usually to the globe, though it comparatively seldom befalls, comes to the experienced operator and to the tyro alike, and without warning. He, in whose practice it has never occurred, has much to be thankful for. The writer is one of these lucky individuals, for with a total of more than 1,200 extractions, and a still greater number of iridec- tomies, he has yet to meet with this catastrophe.1 The predisposing cause is usually degeneration of the vascular system (arteriosclero- sis) and the immediate cause is violence to, or straining of, the walls of the vessels through the opening of the globe, causing a rupture. The two long posterior ciliary arteries, because of the manner in which they pierce the sclera, and owing to, the directness of their blood columns, are peculiarly liable to this form of hemor- rhage. Most often the break occurs just within the sclera, and it is supposed to be produced by the dropping away of the vitreous after the incision is made. Glaucomatous eyes are especially subject to it, and, in these, it is as apt to follow iridectomy as it is 1 Since writing the above I have had two such accidents—one 48 hours after an extraction, the other immediately attending an iridectomy for glaucoma. 33