13 INHALER. and the freer the post-narcotic period from nausea. The practice of bringing the patient into the operating room in a perfectly conscious state, there to be confronted by surgeons and attendants, all gowned, and by a great array of paraphernalia suggestive of blood, completely demoralizes certain timid subjects and is much to be deprecated. The narcosis should be produced either in the private room or in a special anesthesia chamber. Above all, perhaps, is the importance of making the period of narcosis as brief as possible. In general surgery it is not so much the operation that counts for fatal results at it is deep and prolonged narcosis. During any operation on the eye, the mucus which so frequently accumulates in the mouth and throat during the administration of ether, is most objectionable, as it necessitates stopping the opera- tion for its removal and endangers the field. This excessive secre- tion may be most effectually prevented by the hypodermic exhibi- tion of atropin sulphate gr. i /200 to 1 /150, combined with morphin sulphate gr. 1/16 to 1/8, about one hour before the operation. Inhalers.—As to inhalers the simplest apparatus is usually the best. The drop method on a simple, gauze covered wire inhaler for ether and chloroform is about as good as any. I prefer Jordan's inhaler for eye operations as there is a notch for llie nose at the top, and the handle projects over the chin, thus putting the hand that holds it out of the way. Where this is not at hand, the cone of towel and paper with absorbent cotton to hold the liquid, for ether, or a simple towel or napkin for chloroform, will answer the purpose. The subject is first made to breathe with the inhaler in place, but uncharged with the anesthetic. The latter is then gradually added. Screaming children may have a deep cone, i.e., with plenty of air space, saturated with ether clapped on at once, trusting partly to asphyxia to produce sleep. Along with the tanks of nitrous oxid there is always one of oxygen, and hypodermic syringes are provided, ready loaded with strychnia, brandy, or other stimulants, nor is there wanting the means for making infusion of salt solution. All these things to be used in an emergency must be prepared and on the spot. The patient is carefully watched for an hour or two immediately after the narcosis for the double purpose of noting his physical condition and of preventing injury to the eye or derangement of the dressing by some unconscious act.