357 MECHANICAL TREATMENT. surface or a sharpish edge—fig-leaves, bits of broken pottery, etc. Capt. Cook, on his first visit to one of the hitherto unknown isles of the Pacific, saw a native mother holding in her lap a tra- chomatous child whose everted lid she scraped with a chip of wood.1 Hippocrates, to remove the granu ations, made use of a tightly wound mop of raw wool. The name of the mop was Ophihal- moxisiron, and of the scrubbing ofhthalmoxysis. Paulus, of /Egineta, employed a similar instrument which he called a blepharo- xystron, and the operation he named blepharoxysis. With these crude things they rubbed until they exposed the tarsus, then applied powdered drugs or the cautery to the denuded part. Severus decried these rude procedures, preferring massage. This was either simple, that is, with the bare finger or other smooth object, or medicamentous, that is, with the addition of unguents, etc. There have been numerous revivals, within modern times, of the exact principles involved in these ancient practices, and to the same end, though, naturally, with improvement both as to the manner and means. The first modern revival by Woolhouse, in England, at the end of the iSth century, yet with an instrument little in advance of the original ones, seeing that it was a brush made of barbs of grain. The next was by Borelli, in 1859; then, later, by several others; and still more recently (1891) by a number of French oculists and a few in other countries. The French have called the process variously—as Brassage, raclage, gvattage, etc. It is not an extremely bad measure, but it is far from being as good as some others. That of massage, on the other hand, is a most excellent one; particularly the medicamentous kind, recommended some years ago by Below.2 This consists in rubbing strong solutions of sublimate, 1-500 up to 1-100, into the infiltrated conjunctiva. After an experience of ten years with like methods, I most heartily commend it to my colleagues. Since the introduction of the organic silver preparations I have found this form of massage particularly effective. There is hardly a stage of the affection to which it is 1 To prove that such pristine practices have not wholly passed, the writer, not long since, knew a young man who carried in his vest pocket a fragment of window-pane with which he would, from time to time, scratch the upper borders of his inverted tarsi. The trachoma bodies in this instance were scarred veterans, and the noise that he made with his "scratting" was anything but musical. 2 Jour, de med. russe, 1885.