136 OPERATIONS UPON THE APPENDAGES OF THE EYE. toward the front and pushed down into the bony portion, as per the directions just given for probing. The knife is brought out and the operation is finished. As the tendo oculi lies in front of the lacrimal gland, it is quite practicable to pass the blade through the sac and nasal duct, in order to divide strictures without seriously, or at all, wounding it, provided the edge is not turned too much forward. In the hori- zontal progress of the knife through the canaliculus, the anatomy of the parts must be borne in mind, i.e., that the anterior half of the lacrimal fossa belongs to the superior maxilla and is thick and firm, while the posterior half belongs to the thin, yielding lacrimal bone. Hence, if the blade were thrust inward with great force, unless it were directed toward the anterior half of the fossa, it could perforate the bone and enter the nasal cavity. Stilling's practice of multiple division of strictures of the deeper portions of the canal, for which he designed the knife that bears his name, has been supplanted by systematic and graduated probing. Stricturotomy, as a prelude to forced dilatation of both the mem- branous and the bony portions of the lacrimal canal, however, is still extensively practiced. The correct location for the slit is in the posterior superior wall of the canaliculus, hence the necessity for directing the knife with edge slightly backward. Were it along the top or superior wall, it would be unsightly and, worse still, the function of this part of the canal would be destroyed. Even when placed in the most favorable position possible, be it long or short, this incision greatly interferes with the drainage of the conjunctival sac. The suction of the lacrimal sac, caused by the alternate contraction and relaxation of the orbicularis and Horner's muscle, through nictitation, is spoiled by the slit, and this alone is a frequent cause of epiphora. The fact that gravity puts the burden of draining of the conjunctival sac mainly upon the lower canaliculus is a strong argument in favor of slitting the upper one and preserving the lower whenever practicable. Should the surgeon prefer to wield the knife with the right hand for both eyes and the left canaliculus is to be divided, an assistant stands behind the patient to hold the head, and the operator in front. Otherwise it is behind for the right eye and in front for