566 EXTRACTION OF CATARACT. bright daylight, but for the thinner or less conspicuous ones a stronger is required, such as the focusing on of the light of an Argand burner or that of a ground incandescent electric bulb by means of a handglass. Another good light is that of the portable electric bull's-eye thrown onto the eye from one side by an assistant. If oblique focal illumination is employed, the assistant must be careful not to focus on the eye a sharp image of the flame, but to have it a trifle within or beyond the focusing point, as this gives a more even and a larger area of light. Also a little unsteadiness will not be so apt to cause it to fail the operator at the critical moment. The eye, the instruments, and the operator all having been as scrupulously prepared as if for an extraction, excepting that only one or two drops of 4% cocain solution are required, in what manner shall the membrane be divided ? According to the principles stated on page 560, the knife must be entered at the limbus, but the precise point of entry must be governed by the formation of the membrane with which we have to deal—in other words, by the position and the direction of the denser bands which compose it, for these cataracts are never of uniform thickness or opacity throughout. It will be found a great help to study each membrane by strong focal illumination and a magnifying glass or with the ophthalmoscope and transmitted light beforehand. The streaks more often run crosswise or obliquely than vertically, at any rate, after the per- ipheral capsulotomy, so that the knife is best inserted at some place along the outer corneal limbus farthest from the ends of the more prominent bands in order to cut athwart them. Here it is of the greatest advantage to be able to wield the knife with either hand, as should the portion about which one is most concerned, lie hori- zontally and near the upper border of the right pupil or the lower border of the left, it could be more easily divided and with less risk of injury to the iris and ciliary body by holding the knife in the left hand. Assuming that the bulk of the opacity is vertically across the center of the right pupil, the operator stands facing the top of the patient's head with the knife in the right hand (edge up), and the puncture is made in the horizontal meridian at the limbus, and precisely as if for extraction. The point is pushed in, horizontally, just above the iris, till it is