EXTRACTION OF CATARACT. 494 during the wait, shutting the cortex securely in the posterior cham- ber, thus making it impossible of extraction. For these reasons the writer prefers to go ahead at once without removing the blepharostat. If the patient is of the irresponsible kind, the assistant, if he be clever, might steady the eye with the fixation forceps during this process, but I have for a long time proceeded alone in all cases, trusting to the special design of the blepharostat and to the holding up of the brow to prevent loss of vitreous. The site of the incision should be kept bathed with boric acid solution and the spatula and spoon wet with the same. If the iris has been displaced during the delivery of the cataract, it is left so until after the cortex is disposed of. A prolapsed iris rather favors the expulsion of lens remains, whereas, should there be a pause just prior to this step, the iris is apt to go back spontaneously and complicate matters by shutting off the cortex from the anterior chamber. The brow being still supported either by the assistant or by the third finger of the surgeon's left hand, the patient looking down, the assistant still holding up the speculum, the spatula (in the left hand) is entered, vertically, for the double purpose of holding back the iris and affording a chute, or inverted shoehorn office; meanwhile, from without, the Graefe spoon, held in the right hand, is used to follow up the particles by a very gentle patting or rubbing process upon the cornea, until all of them seem to have been removed. The globe must be closely watched during this procedure so that should it, as it often does, turn suddenly upward, the spatula may be as quickly withdrawn, else there is danger of its puncturing the posterior capsule or rupturing the hyaloid and letting out the vitreous. While it is important that we should do our utmost to that end, it is not always possible, even under favorable conditions, to remove all the opacity from the pupil, as a portion of the posterior cortex may adhere closely to its capsule, or there may be a visible thickening of either capsule, and it is not wise to fuss too long with that which shows no disposition to come out. This will often successfully resist efforts at removal even by lavage. A few surgeons still employ intraocular irrigation, or lavage of the anterior chamber with a neutral liquid or a mild antiseptic solution, but it is not favored by the great majority except in selected cases. When I was a student in Paris, I became favorably im-