OPERATIONS UPON THE CONJUNCTIVA. 368 the whole length of, the tarsus 2 1/2 mm. from the free border, taking care not to wound the fascia underlying the orbicularis. The conjunctiva is dissected from the tarsus, leaving the latter exposed. The cartilage is then separated from the pretarsal connective tissue up to the convex border by means of blunt-pointed scissors, and, lastly, it is detached from the levator tendon. As a rule, sutures are not required. The after-treatment is the same as for the combined excision. The operation just described is, I believe, comparatively seldom resorted to. The combined excision, however, is in constant requisi- tion in Konigsberg. Kuhnt alone has performed it more than 5,000 times. He sums up the results thus: 1. The course of the disease is shortened, the time required for a case being, on an average, six weeks, including after-treatment. He declares that expression cures only 10% of the cases, while excision cures 50 to 60%. 2. Secondary corneal disease is prevented, or, when present is more quickly cured. 3. The mechanical ptosis is corrected. 4. Recurrences are less frequent. The objections to the measure that have been urged are too much loss of conjunctiva, limitation of ocular movements, and serious cicatricial contraction. To obviate the first, Kuhnt operates only upon eyes with sufficient conjunctiva. As to the second objection, he counsels the invariable conservation of the bulbar conjunctiva, even when it is infiltrated, and treating it by medical and mechanical methods. With respect to the third, it is declared that since only portions of the conjunctiva and tarsus are excised and all the deeper tissues are avoided, the resulting scars are superficial—hence harmless. It is rather singular that so few operations of either simple or combined excision are made for trachoma in this country. We have large areas in the State of Illinois where trachoma is endemic and has been for fifty years or more. Vast numbers of the victims are treated both in Chicago and in St. Louis, yet one rarely hears of even simple excision; more rarely of combined. Two reasons occur to me for this: First, the character of the people. They are of a peculiar type—shiftless and ignorant beyond belief—and from