204- OPERATIONS UPON THE EXTRINSIC MUSCLES. operation on the fellow eye must be regulated by circumstances. In children, and all those where there is hope of gaining the end by the help of other means, from six months to a year is not too long. As regards older subjects, and those with high and incorrigible amblyopia, it is useless to wait longer than a month or so. Anesthesia.—Wherever feasible one should make the operation under local anesthesia, and it is the writer's custom even in case of small children—from 7 to 12 years of age—although they are pre- pared for narcosis, to begin under cocain. If they bear it uncom- plainingly, well and good; if not, they are narcotized. A pretty large percentage of these little ones can be operated without being put to sleep. The suggestion of Eales,1 of making the tenotomy and first step of the advancement under cocain, and then giving ethyl chloric! or some such anesthetic for the sewing seems a plausible one. The subconjunctival injection of cocain is not free from danger, and makes a mess of the tissues concerned. Three or four drops of a 4% solution made from a good quality of cocain produces perfect anesthesia in most eyes, though it is well to put a drop or two into the wound as soon as the conjunctiva is incised, both for the tenotomy and for the advancement. As to safety, advancement ranks about as high as any operation that is made on the eye. In all my experience I have never seen but a single eye that gave me serious alarm thereafter. This was a dis- pensary patient who was allowed to go home directly from the operat- ing-room, but with instructions to report on the second day. He did not return till the end of the fourth day. The bandage was filthy, the dressing was off the eye, and there was septic tenonitis at the site of the advancement, with a deep infiltration in the nearest segment of the cornea. The suture was at once removed, the man put under treatment in the hospital, and the eye made a complete recovery. A neat and effective advancement, though safe and simple as to detail, is by no means easy of execution, the great difficulty lying in the deep anchorage required for the sutures in the globe. The older the subject, the more difficult this becomes. To pierce the superficial layers of the sclera for the requisite distance without going through and in such a way that the tunnel of the needle will 1 Brit. Med. Jour., Jan., 1888, p. 349.