SIMPLE PERIPHERAL CORNEAL FLAP EXTRACTION. 487 when about to pour or drop liquid into or upon the eye, as to do so unexpectedly is apt to cause a start or a wince), after which that portion of the liquid caught behind the lower lid is imbibed by a cotton sponge. The assistant operator places his left hand on the patient's brow and supports it with his shumb pressed firmly on the upper rim of the orbit, dropping his wrist and forearm well down so as to get them out of the way of the operator. This grip on the brow dis- courages a spasm of the orbicularis, aside from forcibly preventing it. Fixation of the Globe.—The surgeon takes the knife in his right hand (for the right eye), the forceps in his left. The best point at which to take hold with the fixation forceps in upward extraction is a matter of no mean importance. The point in question is at or near the center of the inferonasal fourth of the corneal limbus; in other words, just beneath the inner extremity of the horizontal diameter of the cornea. To grasp the tissues here affords a much more satisfactory means of controlling the eyeball than does the more generally chosen one of seizing them in the vertical meridian below the cornea. It is especially effective in preventing torsion of the globe during the keratotomy. The jaws of the forceps are placed against the eye closed, then allowed to open. Thus the loose structures are smoothed out or put lightly on the stretch, the object being to obviate picking up too much of the conjunctiva, thereby causing it to overlap the cornea along the site of the proposed in- cision. The instrument is then pressed more firmly, and a good big bite is taken, and as deep a one as can be obtained. The fold composing this bite should stand perpendicular to the tangent of the limbus. If the conjunctiva proves too friable to insure a sufficient hold, try lower down or even beneath the cornea. The forceps referred to here are without a catch or lock and have broad jaws. If, while the knife is engaged in the section, the fixation becomes insecure because of a purely conjunctival bite, twisting of the forceps on its long axis will tighten the hold. The second finger rests upon the patient's nose, the third and fourth upon the opposite cheek, and the hold is steadily maintained, meanwhile scrupulously avoiding either to press or to pull upon the eyeball. Now, a look is given at the knife to see that its edge is directed upward, and the incision is begun.