129 THE LACRIMAL CANAL. stricture. (For method, see Bowman's operation.) To withdraw the probe, pull up and out until the tip has reached the sac, then depress to the horizontal and finish. Threading the Lacrimal Canal.—This refers to what is said to be an effective manner of treating persistent dacryocystitis and various forms of stenosis of the canal, reported to the Ophthalmolcgical Society of the Netherlands, meeting of 1907, by Prof. Koster. This surgeon passes a silk thread through the entire lacrimal tract, makes a knot at the upper end, or disposes of it by sticking it to the skin of the lower lid to keep it from entering the canal, coils the lower portion and leaves it in the nose. For the insertion of the thread he employs a series of hollow probes, of different sizes, each having a solid probe that passes easily through it. The latter has an eyelet at its distal extremity. The canaliculus is slit open. The hollow member is passed into the canal until its lower end rests on the floor of the nose, then slightly withdrawn. The thread is put through the eyelet of the solid member, and this is in like manner passed and left with its threaded end touching the floor of the nose. A small blunt hook is used to draw the thread out of the inferior meatus. The thread is now held while both the solid and the hollow probes are pulled out. By partially withdrawing the thread and treating it with remedies, it is made to serve as the medium for their application. The silk is left in situ for weeks or even months, if need be. Here one could probably find a sure preventive of the persistent and rapid closure of the punctum referred to, and avoid frequent opening with probe or stylet, but it would be desirable to pass the thread through the undivided punctum. In this case the canula might be dispensed with and a very small probe with an eyelet to carry fine thread—say size o or 1, —be used alone. Syringing the lacrimal canal is indicated for nearly all phases of acute and chronic catarrhal and suppurative diseases to which it is subject. Indeed, eye specialists in general are pretty well agreed that the syringe furnishes the best means for the conservative handling of these affections. There are several forms of syringe employed for the purpose, mostly some modification of the old Anel model. The illustration (Fig. 53) shows one which my colleague Wilder and I planned and 9