156 OPERATIONS UPON THE APPENDAGES OF THE EYE. is loosened first above, then below, by blunt dissection or cutting with stub-pointed scissors. When the lobes are in view and fairly freed from surroundings, they are drawn out and severed from their posterior attachments by cutting with the scissors, from the nasal side and ending at the temporal. At this end there is apt to be some hemorrhage, but it is easily controlled by styptics, clamping, or torsion. Extirpation of the Palpebral Portion, together with the de- generative effect entailed upon the ducts of the orbital gland, will occasionally suffice for the relief of epiphora. It is well known that atrophy of the conjunctival sac, following trachoma, results in the drying up of the source of the tears, hence the actual cautery has been applied (Chibret and Bettermieux) to the retrotarsal folds and the mouths of the ducts, with a view to the discouragement of further lacrimal secretion or the induction of atrophy of the gland. One ought to avoid unnecessary opening of the orbital fascia, fearing cellulitis, and know how to distinguish the glandular tissue from that of the orbital fat. The first-named is pink and of firmer consistency, the second, yellow and softer. A couple of fine, absorbable sutures are put in to tolerably close the conjunctival incision, or they may be omitted, and the conjunctiva and skin of the canthus are sutured together as per description—see " Cantho- plasty." Canthotomy is often dispensed with in extirpation of the palpebral lacrimal gland. The levator tendon is to be scrupu- lously shunned, because of possible ptosis. A safer, easier, and generally preferable method for the extirpation of the larger gland is by way of the external incision. The Operation for Extirpation of the Orbital Lacrimal Gland.—The supercilia are lathered and smoothly shaved with a razor. For the most part, general anesthesia is demanded. The exact mid-line of the stumps of the outer half of supercilia is chosen for the site of the cutaneous incision, so that most of the scar will be hidden. The convex scalpel is held in the right hand while the indicated line of the eyebrow is stretched over the rim of the orbit by manipulation of the left thumb and index. After cutting the skin from midway of the eyebrow to its outer extremity, the cut is continued just over the outer rim of the orbit to a point about on a level with the outer canthus. It is then deepened until the