407 CYCI.i (DIALYSIS. away. With a small bent lance or a Graefe cataract knife a 2 or 3 mm. long incision is made in the sclera, 4 or 5 mm. from, and parallel with, the limbus, directing the point of the knife, if it be the lance, toward the chamber angle, but not entering it. Meller1 advises making the cut not with the point of the lance, but with one of its lateral edges, so that more nearly the same depth can be maintained along the whole extent of the wound. A narrow spatula, similar to that used in replacing the iris, only with live transverse lines on its concave surface marking the 5 terminal mm. of the blade, is introduced at the wound. About when the fourth mark is entering, the resistance of the ligamentum pectinatum is felt. After this is slowly pierced, the spatula is visible in the anterior chamber. By lateral excursions this cyclodialysis is enlarged 2 to 3 mm. No aqueous escapes if the instrument is slowly extracted. If, however, an evacuation of some aqueous is desired, the spatula may be pressed toward the globe or a little twisted to pry open the wound. Finally, the suture is tied. Tension is the same after the operation if no aqueous escaped and diminished after two to three days. After escape of aqueous tension is at once diminished. In certain cases it would certainly seem advisable to let out a part of the aqueous and reduce the tension at once, and also follow the operation by the use of miotics, so as to draw the root of the iris away from the angle of the anterior chamber and thus augment the effect of the operation. Indications for Cyclodialysis: 1. In secondary glaucoma, especially with anterior synechia due to wounds, ulcers or cataract extraction. 2. In glaucoma where the other eye has been lost by severe hemorrhage following iridectomy. 3. In the aged or infirm where it is considered dangerous to keep the patient in bed as in iridectomy. 4. As a preliminary operation where iridectomy is dangerous on account of very high tension, no anterior chamber, atrophic iris and wide pupil, as it lowers the tension, and there is no danger of striking the lens during its performance. 5. When the lens has been dislocated and fallen into the vitreous 1 Ophthalmic Surgery, 1908, p. 201.