TENDON RECESSION. tendon at the point indicated by the other vertical line, thus resecting a portion. The long loop and the two ends of thread are then tied in one knot, and the cut ends of the tendon nicely butted together. If the surgeon prefers, the loop may be cut and the ends tied sepa- rately. The thread may be absorbable or not, as the operator chooses. The wound in the membranes is closed by one or two fine sutures. The points claimed for this over certain other shortening operations lie in the facts that the thread embraces and supports the united ends of the tendon, both in front and behind, so that they are kept in nice apposition, and not inclined to stand up in a pout, and that the operation is simple and easy of execution. Among others who have designed practicable resection operations are Driver,' Coates,2 Baraquez,3 Prince,* and Stevens.' 5. Tendon Recession.- In the writer's opinion, there is but one class of squint cases wherein the surgical treatment calls for an actual setting back of the muscle toward which the eye deviates, viz., that in which the muscle is abnormally short. This is found in certain instances of congenital squint, and, exceptionally, in the case of middle-aged or elderly subjects with acquired squint in whom the defect has been of many years' duration. I refer particularly to those in which the length of the muscle is so inadecpiate that not only is the eye incapable of voluntary rotation in the opposite direction, but also refuses to so turn under fixation forceps, even w ith the subject in complete narcosis. The condition is exceedingly rare, the writer having -encountered it not to exceed six or eight times in as many hundreds of operated cases. To attempt advance- ment of the antagonist without a recession of this short muscle would result in the production of an unwarrantable degree of exophthalmos, and still greater limitation in the motility of the globe. Indeed, advancement of the opposite muscle is not needful save in a certain percentage of these cases, the recession alone being sufficient. The ordinary complete tenotomy is not applicable because of the un- certainty as to what would ultimately become of the severed muscle. What is wanted is something that will limit the extent to which 1 Kl. Mbl. f. Aug., p. 133, 1876. 2 Lancet, May, 1878. 3 Bolletin de Clin. oft. de Santa Cruz, No. 2, p. 17, 1885. •♦Journal of the Am. Med. Assn., Oct. 13, 1888. s N. Y. Med. Jour., p. 345, 1889.