OPERATIONS FOR PTOSIS. 229 about the only operation adopted with reference to it was the ex- cision of a horizontal ellipse of skin from midway of the fallen lid, and varying in size with the degree of the ptosis. No material change was made in the status of such surgery until 1880. True, von Graefe1 had made an attempt to improve it. He incised the skin the entire length of the lid, opened wide the cut, and resected a strip of the orbicularis, about one centimeter in width and as long as the incision. The wound was closed without excision of skin. The idea was to cause subcutaneous shortening of the lid, together with the weakening of the power of the opponent of the levator, viz., the orbicularis. Mention may also be made of the curious tentatives employed by Denouvilliers and Gosselin, whereby they hoped to make a lasting perforation in the fallen lid to serve as a window through which the patient could see. During the last twenty-five years, however, ophthalmic surgeons have been tremendously pro- lific in the operative measure they have contrived for the correction of this defect. So numerous are they that to attempt a description of each is out of the cpaestion. We must, therefore, content our- selves with detailing only a few of them. Most of the measures in question have for object either 1. The linking of the lid directly to the frontalis muscle. 2. The advancement of the natural elevators of the lid, or 3. The inosculation of the skeleton of the lid with the superior rectus muscle. Moreover, each contemplates, or affects, a certain amount of shortening of the entire lid. The conspicuous manner in which the frontalis offers itself as nature's substitute for the crippled levator in ptosis early led surgeons to think of means for giving this muscle greater purchase over the fallen lid. Hunt (1838) and later Morand, thought to achieve this through more or less ingenious sliding or transposing, of skin flaps about lid and brow. Others went deeper, with the idea of making an actual anastomosis between the frontalis and the orbicularis. Vautrin, for example, brought down a fragment of the frontal muscle and attached it to the lid, while Darier tried engrafting a strip of the orbicularis upon the frontalis. The notion of putting the upper lid in closer touch with the frontal 1 Archiv. f. Oph., Bd. ix, 2, S. 57.