397 TATTOOAGE OF THE CORNEA. conditions, of course, the area of the cornea corresponding to the pupil would be left clear, and the pigment made to occupy the per- ipheral zone. In this way the photophobia would be lessened and the visual acuity increased. The sphere of cosmetic tattooage is limited to the hiding, or rendering less conspicuous, of opacities of the cornea. Both kinds can be made to serve useful ends, for, even as to the second, it is an indisputable fact that little blemishes of face and figure constitute a decided handicap in the great bread-winning race as regards both male and female. The method of procedure is the same in both kinds of tattooage. The instruments are blepharostat, fixation forceps with broad jaws and no teeth, one instrument containing four needles in a compact bundle for work in a circumscribed area, one with four needles in a row for broader areas, and a tiny curved spatula for applying the ink to the surface to be tattooed (Plate II, Nos. 24 and 25). The needles must be quite sharp. The best grade of India or Chinese ink, in cake, is appropriate for all cases, excepting where hazels and browns are to be simulated; for these admixtures of sepia of vermilion and ultramarine are required. A piece is cut or broken from the cake and sterilized by baking for half an hour at a tem- perature of 1500. It is then taken in sterile forceps or crayon- holder, dipped in water or, what is probably better, a solution of gum-arabic, and rubbed in the bottom of a paint saucer, dipping occasionally for a fresh drop of the liquid, till a few drops of a thin black paste are obtained. If done rightly, this process is tedious. The liner the subdivision of the particles, the better. Of course, the ink must be used as soon as prepared. The colored pigments may be procured in fine powder, then washed, first in water, then in alcohol, then in ether; evaporated in a sand-bath and, lastly steril- ized as above, and mixed with aseptic gum-arabic solution. Technic of the Operation. Local Anesthesia.—After washing the conjunctival sac with boric acid solution, the cornea is dried with the tip of a small cotton sponge from which the moisture has been well wrung. Some operators prefer to mark the pupillary area with the edge of a sharp cylinder and to remove the epithelium within the circle before applying the pigment, but this is unnecessary. A drop of the ink the size of a pinhead is taken up with the spatula and deposited exactly on the spot to be tattooed. If the area is small,