EXENTERATION OF THE SCLERA. 413 washed and the opening closed by from 3 to 5 vertical sutures that include both conjunctiva and sclera. The reaction after this operation is usually considerable, the chief features being chemosis, particularly of the lower half of the conjunctiva, and swelling of the upper lid. The chemotic mem- brane often projects beyond the palpebral fissure, and is very slow to disappear. There is, moreover, needless sacrifice of the outer wall of the sclera. To obviate this, Gifford, of Omaha, quite properly, omitted excision of the cornea, making the exenteration through a simple horizontal incision, thus causing less reaction, and securing a more ample stump. The writer, who had previously made only the De Wecker opera- tion (described in chapter on Anterior Staphyloma), seeing the advantages of Gifford's method, adopted it. He had noticed, however, that the stump, after all methods where the long axis of the wound lay in the horizontal meridian, was always characterized by a deep cleft, lying in the same direction and reaching far back into the sclera on both sides—really a folding of the globe upon itself, causing it to resemble a grain of barley. This determined him to make the opening vertical, though still, like Gilford, without the excision of cornea, except in cases of anterior staphyloma, when just enough is removed to cause adequate flattening. A long, narrow, vertical, pointed ellipse is ample for even a pronounced staphyloma. In either case, the ends of the incision or the points of the ellipse are extended sufficiently far into the ciliary region to give ingress for instruments and small spindle-shaped cotton sponges. The operator grasps the center of the wound on one side with fixation forceps (without catch); an assistant does the same on the other, and in such a way that, by rotating the instru- ments, the cornea and sclera can be rolled back like the turning up of a sleeve (Fig. 218). A knife of special design, first described in the Ophthalmic Record, July, 1905, is used to dissect the choroid from the sclera (Plate II, No. 39). The blade, which is not oversharp, is double-edged, curved on the flat so as to fit into the scleral cavity, and has a rounded extremity. This serves to sever the roots of the iris, the ciliary body, the veins, arteries, and nerves, but for fear of perforating with the knife when it comes to the optic nerve the assistant takes both forceps, the surgeon holds choroid and retina