4 Bull, de la soc. frang., d'opht., 1884, p. 77. SCLERECTOMY. Coccius,1 transfixed the center of the tumor with a fine Graefe knife, cutting out parallel with the base, held the lips of the incision closed with a tenaculum, and completed the excision with forceps and scissors. More recently, in a smilar case, Fage2 incised the over- lying conjunctiva, put three catgut sutures through the base of the ectasia, made the exsection, as did Coccius, and then tied the sutures. The loss of vitreous was slight, and the result satisfactory. The idea of first placing the sutures was taken from the Critchett opera- tion for corneal staphyloma. Taylor, Argyll-Robertson and De Wecker, tried trephining the sclera in absolute glaucoma, but have had few imitators. In this connection, however, it may be mentioned that Frohliclv of Berlin, reports that, in four out of five eves with absolute glaucoma, and that were as hard as stone, he had succeeded, by trephination, in reducing the tension to normal or subnormal, ridding them entirely of inflammation, and in per- manently relieving them of pain. He proceeds thus: Cocain; incision of conjunctiva along lower border of externus, and along outer border of inferioris, extending nearly to cornea, where they are joined. The flap is raised and turned back toward the equator. Von Hippel's trephine, with 5 mm. crown, set for the thickness of sclera only, is used for the excision. On removal of the disk, if retina and choroid are not sufficiently ruptured by vitreous, they may be punctured. The conjunctival flap is put in place and sutured. The scleral wound takes care of itself. Of late years sclerectomy has been mainly employed in detach- ment of the retina, the object being to shrink the walls of the globe upon the already shrunken vitreous. Parinaud.i put a needle, tangent, into the outer portion of the sclera over the center of the detachment, and lifted up a cone. Through this, and parallel with its base, he passed a Graefe knife so as to excise an ovoid piece 4 or 5 mm. in diameter. The choroid should not be injured. The choroid could be punctured aftenvard, and, if need be, the puncture repeated after 7 or 8 days. A bold and extensive operation of sclerectomy for detachment 1 Heilanstalt ftir arme Augenkranke zu Leipzig, 1870, S. 35-36. 2 Gaz. des hop. de Toulouse, 1894, 18 aout. 3 Kl. Mb!, f. A., Mai, 1004.