OPERATIONS UPON THE GLOBE. 476 in the trauma, yet recover promptly. Provided there has been no infection, and reparation has been rapid and complete, so long as the eye remains absolutely quiescent, plump, and of normal tension, it is not only safe to leave it in place, but it were wrong to enucleate or exenterate—irrespective of questions of sight or the location of the original wound. Should a lingering iridocyclitis or choroiditis result with, perhaps, disturbances of tension, and sight is gone, excision of the globe or exenteration should be done without further delay. Given these conditions, together with useful vision and a wound of the ciliary zone, nothing short of "eternal vigilance" on the part of one capable of properly observing, could be an excuse for not resorting to one of the operations named the moment it was found that other modes of treatment were of no avail. In the writer's opinion, exenteration is better suited to every class cited in Group 2 than is enucleation. Group 3. Optional Indications.—This group is relatively small, containing only two classes, viz.: (a) Quiet eyes, apparently normal in every way save that they are blind from total leucoma of the cornea. (b) All instances of bilateral blindness in which the removal of an eye or the eyes would decidedly improve the personal appearance. Remarks.—This group is so named because it embraces those cases concerning which it is purely a matter of choice on the part of the patient whether or not he parts with an ugly useless member. Class b is peculiar in that, of all the classes under the three groups, it is the only one that does not assume some degree of usefulness on the part of the other eye. Like Group 2, there can hardly be a doubt but that exenteration is the preferable procedure whenever practicable for this division also. It may be mentioned in passing that Class a of this group includes just the cases that are appropriate for tattooage of the cornea. Concluding Observations. Age of Patient.—Neither extreme —that of youth nor that of age—are considered bars to an urgently needed enucleation. Anesthesia.—Narcosis is, of course, the rule, and, all things else being equal, is most suitable. Excision of the globe has frequently