453 U'CI IM.XTS 1 \ IK I |)K( "I'oMY. A rare accident that can happen to a novice using a small keen keratome, and one apt to prove most disastrous, is the shoving of the blade bodily into the anterior chamber. I have seen it occur only in student operations upon pigs' eyes. 3. Too Sudden Evacuation of the Aqueous.—This is an occurrence of much graver import than is commonly admitted. The usual result of the rush of the fluid is that the iris is carried with it into the wound, which, of itself, is bad enough; but, worse yet, the abrupt lowering of the intraocular pressure, even when not previously high, may give rise to choroidal hemorrhage and to rupture of the zonule and hyaloid, with presentation of vitreous or subluxation of the lens. So slightly, however, has the accident been regarded that many operators, following the example of Bowman, have, in certain simple iridectomies, regularly practised quickly jerking out the knife with the express purpose of causing a prolapse of the iris, in order to be spared the necessity of drawing out the iriswitha traction instrument. The custom is much to be deprecated, for, aside from the danger just mentioned, what one gains in readily seizing the protruding membrane is more than counterbalanced by the unavoidable lack of precision in properly fashioning the coloboma under such conditions—in giving it due symmetry, and in dosing the excision. For these reasons Czermak strongly advises replacing the prolapse before proceding, so that the seizure and withdrawal may be accomplished in the regulation way. He makes exceptions, however, as follows: 1. When the conjunctiva is so inflamed as to entail danger of infection. 2. When the tension is high. 3. When the lens is dislocated or abnormally small, as in hydroph- thalmos, or when the vitreous is presenting. 4. In cases of nervous persons and children, operated under local anesthesia. True enough, a prolapse can be brought about by other means than by carelessness in removing the knife, such as pressure upon the globe by fixation forceps, movement or squeezing upon the part of the patient, etc. Having occurred, whether or not an attempt should be made to replace it before making the excision must be