BLUNT HOOKS. 69 terns, would be ample in this line. This is an instrument whose place, in certain emergencies, no other instrument can quite fill. There are two well-known classes of the sharp hook, viz., that which is very minute, and whose bend is short. This class, of which there have been a number of modifications, goes back to Beer. Its surviving representative is that which bears the name of Tyrrell, and whose crook is precisely like that of a button-hook. The other class is descended from the -recti's, of Gibson, but is more closely identified with Von Graefe. Here the bend is either angular or but slightly curved and is much less acute. The first-mentioned kind was destined solely for an iris hook, and as such it has chiefly been used. If, however, it is given less of the backward bend, that makes it like a button-hook, and the crook is opened out somewhat, it makes an excellent instrument with which to deliver rather tough cataracts that are loosened and are well forward- generally more or less within the anterior chamber—yet, that it is not practicable to get out by pressure. The other hook has none of the backward bend in beginning the crook, but goes off from the shank almost at a right angle, and is very slightly curved. Its appearance is more that of an old-fashioned dissecting tenaculum in miniature. This is, by far, the most suitable instrument with which to go fishing for luxated cataracts that lie deeper, that is, behind the iris, and for the softer ones that are in the anterior chamber. It can be dug deeper into the lens, and more readily than the other, and if it becomes entangled in tissue that is not wanted, it can be more easily extricated. For remarks on its ad- vantages over other traction instruments in cataract operations see chapter on the Immediate Accidents of Extraction. Suffice it to say in this place that, although it is a simpler matter to scoop out such lenses, along with other things, than to catch them deftly on the hook without disturbing the other contents of the globe, there can be little question as to which is the better method. Could I have but one of these hooks, I would choose the one last described. These hooks should be of the best steel, and exceedingly fine and delicate. The length of the more curved one ought not to be more than one mm., and that of the straighter should be 1 1/2 scant. Blunt Hooks.—There are also two kinds of blunt hooks, but one kind and one hook is enough for anybody. Their only difference