164 OPERATIONS UPON THE EXTRINSIC MUSCLES. years ago, and has since employed them in preference to others. The following constitutes the Author's Mode of Making the Snellen Tenotomy.—Assuming that we have to do with a case of convergent squint of the right eye, the eye is prepared and anesthesia—local or general—is produced. Local anesthesia is preferable. The patient lies on a table, at the head of which the surgeon stands. The blepharostat is put in place and the conjunctival sac thoroughly irrigated with warm boric solution, the remains of which are sponged away. If the eye is under local anesthesia, as is the rule, the patient is instructed to look all the while to the extreme right. The outlines of the tendon and in- sertion of the internus can now be indistinctly perceived. If they are about in their normal positions, the mouse-tooth forceps is placed in contact with the globe, with jaws separated some six or eight millimeters, and just below the center of the tendon in such a way as, when bearing firmly down and closing the forceps, to form a vertical fold three or four millimeters in height, composed of con- junctiva, capsule, and tendon. Holding the forceps tightly, the fold is slightly lifted, and with the Stevens scissors, with their con- cavity directed toward the operator, one essays by a single sturdy snip to cut through all three layers of the fold close to the forceps, thus making in each a small horizontal incision. The forceps, still holding fast, is slightly tilted away from the operator to cause the wound to gape. If the attempt has succeeded, the bare shining sclera is seen at the bottom of the wound. If necessary, the tip of a cotton sponge is applied to the opening to clear away the blood. The scissors are now exchanged for the Stevens hook, which is inserted, point downward, beneath the lower half of the tendon, close up to its insertion. The fold held till now by the forceps is let go, the membranes below the cut are seized with the forceps and pushed downward so as to expose the point of the hook, behind which, by tilting it, they are caught. Now, making traction outward and upward with the hook, held in the left hand, the lower half of the tendon is severed from the globe close to its attachment, cutting carefully with the scissors from the heel toward the point of the hook. Those who make complete tenotomies will here, of course, divide the entire half of the tendon. It is the writer's invariable practice, however, except in the opera-