i6o OPERATIONS UPON THE EXTRINSIC MUSCLES. 1 De Vera causa strabismi, Lisbon, 1739. the reverse is true. Greater visual acuity, a lesser refractive error, etc., having determined it to do the work. As concerns the cases here in point, viz., those that ultimately require surgical measures, it may be assumed, for all practical reasons, that the defect is purely a muscular one, and that the muscle usually concerned is that one away from which the eye turns, or its fellow of the other eye; or, as is most often the case, both of them. That is, these muscles are in- efficient or abnormally weak, rather than that their opponents are overactive or too strong. The last mentioned, however, was the original idea, and upon it was based the primitive operation of strabotomy. To this day the Germans call the muscle toward which the eye deviates the Shielmuskel—the squint-muscle—and refer to the one truly at fault as merely the antagonist. Every close and experienced observer, in studying the conditions of the muscle or muscles actually involved in the squint, must have been aware of the anomalies so often present—anomalies of development, of attachment to globe, adhesion to the fibrous capsule, etc. The different surgical means that have been devised for the cure of squint may be thus denominated and arranged according to their origin: | a. Myotomy. 1. Strabotomy < . ^ { b. Tenotomy. 2. Tendon advancement, or prorrhaphy. 3. Capsular advancement. . i a. Folding or tucking. 4. Tendon shortening < 0 ( b. Resection. 5. Tendon recession. 6. Operations upon the check ligaments. 7. Tendon lengthening. These various measures are employed either singly or combined; as, for example, a muscular with a capsular advancement, to which may be added a tendon resection, or a tendon folding, and so on. 1. Strabotomy, or the cutting of an ocular muscle, for the cure of strabismus, like the entire surgery of squint, is of comparatively recent date. The first to conceive of such a thing was the gifted English charlatan oculist "Chevalier" John Taylor,1 in 1738;