COMPLICATED AND SOFT CATARACTS. 537 rieties, of cataract—notably, shrunken cataracts, those membranous cataracts that are too dense or too tough for ordinary discission, zonular cataracts, and for the extraction of those swollen lens masses that, after discission, cause serious reaction, such as high tension, etc. In truth, it is my belief that the keratome could, in many instances, be used with advantage to supersede the Graefe knife. Advantages of the Keratome.—Its wound heals with exceptional readiness and kindliness. This is probably owing to the fact that it lies chiefly in one plane, without notching and other unevenness. The aqueous humor can be better controlled, i.e., it can be more surely held back or evacuated with greater discernment; hence, also, the iris behaves better; the act of making the cut is less startling to the patient and he remains more quiet, thus reducing the risks. So, for these and other reasons, the incision can be more accurately placed. The most commonly urged objection to the keratome for cataract extraction is that the wound opening is too small. If one will practise on pigs' eyes, the making of a surprisingly large open- ing, of very short wound canal, is speedily arrived at. The essentials are that the blade be extra broad, that in starting the cut the lane of the blade be held about at a right angle to the corneal curve until o o the point enters the anterior chamber, then depressed till it is parallel with the plane of the iris, holding strictly to this and advancing until the p>oint cannot be pushed any further. Then the heel of the knife is turned to the side where the cutting lacks most, holding if possible to the same plane, and the incision is extended while withdrawing the blade. It is my custom, when a long cut is needed, to begin not in the vertical meridian, but a little to the left of it, and finish by lengthening it to the right. The eye must be carefully steadied during this final maneuver, the knife held very firmly, and the sweep that makes the extension be executed not too swiftly, else the patient may wince, or the direction of that part of the incision be faulty or dangerous. In this way, the anterior chamber being of normal or greater than normal depth, a wound opening measuring a centimeter or more—quite ample for the exit of an average sized lens—can, after a little preliminary practice, as suggested, be quite readily accompl shed. It is most suitable for purposes of extraction when it lies, throughout, barely anterior to the apparent sclero-corneal junction.