401 SCLEROTOMY. reported five cases of glaucoma in which he had made the operation, giving favorable results. Quaglino made the incision with a large, triangular keratome, much in the usual way for iridectomy, the only differences being that he began the scleral incision 2 mm. behind the sclero-corneal junction, pushing the blade very slantingly through into the anterior chamber. Then, before withdrawing, he tilted the handle back, and, slightly prying open the cut, allowed the aqueous to run out very slowly, to avoid prolapse of the iris. The same year that Quaglino made his report, De Wecker,1 gave an account of seven cases of glaucoma in which he made anterior sclerotomy by a new method, which he called " incision double avec font sclero-conjuncUval." This, which has been followed, perhaps, oftener than any other mode of anterior sclerotomy, is as follows: The pupil is, if possible, contracted by eserin, then the eye is lightly cocainized. With a narrow Graefe knife, puncture and counterpuncture are made above 1 mm. back of the limbus, as if for linear extraction with flap 2 mm. high. The knife is carried upward with slow sawing movement until the edge engages well in the angle of the iris, when, instead of cutting out, it is twisted a little on its axis to allow all the aqueous to escape, then withdrawn, leaving undivided a bridge of sclera and conjunctiva, about 3 or 4 mm. wide—or about one-third of the distance between the points of the puncture and counterpuncture. The points claimed for the procedure over the completed incision were freedom from iris complications, staphylomatous scar, loss of vitreous, and relapses. Wiegman2 designed a double keratome for making the De Wecker incision. A Few of the Many Other Modifications.—Panas- gave a method of anterior sclerotomy which he called ouletomie, specially destined, as its name implies, for incising the cicatrix in cases of relapsing glaucoma after iridectomy, where adhesions and inclusions of the iris had occurred. This consisted in making the usual punc- tures with very narrow Graefe knife near the ends of the remaining cicatrix, and so completing the section as to include the entangled iris and scleral scar, but left intact a narrow bridge of conjunctiva. 1 Ann. d'oculist., 187 1. 2 Kl. Mbl. F. A., 1897, p. 277. ■1 Soc. franc, d'opht., 1883. 26