325 SYMBLEPHARON. position, lo Jill the opening left by cutting away of a downward symblepharon. Knapp1 combines the method of Teale with that of Arlt. In downward attachment with corneal point, for example, he frees the cornea and separates the lid to its base, turns the flap thus formed down, and fixes it into the cul-de-sac by the double-armed, externally-tied suture of Arlt. He also arranges the flaps as did Teale and in order to keep them from riding up onto the corneal defect, sutures the lower one to the submucous tissue of the fornix. In a case where the removal of a very large pterygoid symble- pharon caused the loss of considerable of the corneal substance, Schrimer, to prevent a corresponding opacity, successfully grafted on to the place small lamella; taken from the cornea of a rabbit. Inward or outward symblepharon often affects both lids, and is attended by ankyloblepharon. As an example of surgical correction of inward symblepharon with ankylosis, the following method, after Langier (i860) and Arlt (1870), is cited. Supposing, as is fre- quently the case, there is obliteration of the internal fornices, and a broad band of skin unites the inner thirds of the lids. A horizontal incision is made, midway of the band, from its outer limit to the inner commissure; the symblepharons are detached, a double-armed suture is put into each of the resulting flaps, they are turned into their respective cul-de-sacs, and fixed by tying the threads over cylinders on the outer skin. In the event of the primary injury having been deep in the fornix, it is best to excise as much as is expedient of the scar, for it is the inevitable pushing upward of this buried, modular mass that is the undoing of many an otherwise excellent result. To prevent these relapses, Panas tried carrying the apex of the detached, downward symblepharon out through a slit made through the base of the lower lid, and suturing it to the cheek; but with poor success. 3. To attempt the relief of total symblepharon is always an arduous undertaking, and often a hopeless one. Baudry says of it, "la cure de symblepharon reste-t-clleun des problemcs les plus difiiciles de la chirurgie oculaire," and Knapp speaks? even more discouragingly, to wit, "The value of a symblepharon operation depends upon the extent of conjunctival surface that is preserved." He intimates 1 Graefe's Arch, xiv, r, 1868, p. 270.