CURETS. 75 mm. in thickness at the middle. It should be lightly curved on the flat, and the edge thinned down to the point just short of trenchancy. The extremity should be rounded and, if anything, there should be less thinning of the edge at that point than along the sides, to pre- vent wounding the iris in poking. It must be seen to that the metal spatula does not have a wiry edge nor become nicked. Extraction Spoons.—Here too it is a pity we cannot con- sistently enjoy the luxury of tortoise-shell, but we must content ourselves with either solid or German silver. Two are required- one for use behind the incision, the other to make pressure from below; the first flatter and broader than the second. The name spoon is really applicable to the model of this instrument only so far as it concerns the external form, i.e., there is no bowl to the spoon—it is solid or plain. They are not intended for scoops nor for curets. Earlier spoons had a concavity because they were used to scoop or lade out something—usually more or less of the cataract. Its presence, however, in the expression spoons of to- day is about as useful as the appendix or any other rudimentary organ; and also, like the appendix, it is simply a place for things to lodge. The outline of the spoons is like that of a pear, but, unlike ordinary spoons, the broad end is the one that is free. Their long axes measure about 8 mm. The smaller spoon measures 4 mm. at the widest place, and the larger 5. The smaller is a trifle over a millimeter in thickness, the larger, a trifle under. The back is a regular convexity, i.e., without a longitudinal rib, and the front is perfectly flat. The edge is faintly rounded and smooth. The broader spoon is the same as that of Weber, excepting that it is not hollowed out, and the other, very similar to that of Graefe, though, in addition to the concavity, the latter has a great curve in the shank that supports it. In the shank of each of those here described there is a gentle bend in its terminal third. Curets.—Called also Sharp Spoons. Every outfit should con- tain several of them. One or two fair-sized ones for the curetment of granulating pus cavities, for example. If two, it were well to have one of them fenestrated, as this kind is easier both to clean and to sharpen. Obviously, it is not so well fitted for the double pur- pose of scraping and scooping. Then, too, let one be circular and the other oblong. Their greatest diameters should not exceed