EXTRACTION OF CATARACT. 5°2 or focal illumination from moderate lamp flame or gas jet held to the side. Where practicable, the first dressing should be with the patient in his bed. With strong scissors made for the purpose, the bandage is cut on the side opposite to that of the operated eye. It is then lifted just enough to allow of the fingers being placed upon the edges of the cotton pad which lies upon the lids. This is to hold the pad in place while the bandage is stripped off. After this, if there is the least tendency of the cotton to stick, a little warm boric acid solution is dropped in behind it. The cotton removed, the lids of both eyes are gently wiped with a cotton sponge from which the boric acid solution has been so squeezed that the sponge takes or drinks rather than gives. In this way the soiled solution is drawn away from the palpebral fissure and not driven inward through it. At this point, if the patient is nervous, a drop of cocain solution should be instilled, as it will greatly facilitate the inspection. After waiting for he anesthesia the patient is quietly asked to open the eyes, and the thumb is placed on the brow to elevate the upper lid having as a base the rim of the orbit of the operated eye. Now, with the light full on the eye, the patient is told to look down or at an object held for the purpose. One should not be content with a cursory inspection, but would better look closely, even with the aid of a strong convex lens or the stereoscopic loup, to make sure, as otherwise faint signs of impend- ing trouble might be overlooked. So long as nothing untoward appears no collyria are employed. The eye is dressed precisely as before, and every day thereafter the same examination and re- dressing are repeated so long as bandaging is necessary, which, in favorable cases, is about one week. For a day or two after the first dressing, the patient is permitted to sit part of the time in a chair and, at the end of three or four days, to walk about the room. If he has made normal progress and lives near by, he is discharged from the hospital in about ten days, but is kept under observation until the eye is perfectly quiet or free from any redness. When the bandage is left off, a shade is substituted or medium smoke coquilles. The spherical lens that gives the best visual result is fitted in two weeks to a month from the time of the extraction.