EXTRACTION OF CATARACT. 5°S The remedy consists in again going through the act, this time being more careful as to the condition and manipulation of the instrument. It may chance in essaying the capsulotomy that the cataract is observed to follow the movements of the cystotome. This indicates a tough capsule or a ruptured zonule or both, and one must be extremely wary in the delivery of the lens lest there be escape of vitreous. If it is quite evident that the capsule cannot be cut sufficiently without luxation of the lens, recourse may be had to the capsulotomy forceps. If these extract only the capsule and not the cataract with it, the open sharp hook would be the writer's preference as the traction instrument to use. First, however, unless the pupil behaved unusually well, it were safest to make iridectomy. 14. Accident.—Inadequate wound opening. The causes of this have been previously enumerated. Tike the incomplete cystotomy, the operator does not always realize the presence of it until the lens, while presenting in a normal manner, yet fails, even with pretty firm pressure, to advance. The signs of an insufficient section are un- mistakable, however, as soon as the spoons are applied and the wound yawns, for then the small inner opening is brought to view, against which the lens bumps ineffectually, and to unduly force its exit would be most prejudicial, as even should the effort succeed, the iris and cornea would be wantonly bruised and the cataract would probably be shot out by an explosion of vitreous. The fault may be one of several. The remedy, however, is to enlarge the incision, which may be done either with sharp-edged and blunt-pointed knife (Desmarres) or with scissors. The smallest blunt-pointed strabismus scissors, curved on the flat, are excellent for the purpose. 15. Accident.—Rigidity of the pupil. This rarely occurs if there has been fair mydriasis when the operation was begun. The pupil does not always respond to the atropin. In any event, if the sphincter does not yield to rather prolonged pressure—moder- ately applied, for there is no need to hurry—perhaps the wisest alternative is to make a small, one-snip iridectomy which comprises little more than the sphincter itself. Knapp recommends first trying to push the iris back over the lens with the wire loop; and Panas practised snipping of the pupillary border with the De Wecker