PARA-OPERATIVE TECHNIC. 6 rinsing with warm sublimate solution 1-2,000, the subject mean- while keeping the eyes tightly shut. The supercilia are not shaved unless extra heavy. The cilia are washed, and the lids manipulated to empty the Meibomian and other ducts along the free borders. The cilia before extractions and iridectomies are coated by wiping them with cotton wet with benzin, and, lastly, the conjunctival sac is copiously douched with warm boric acid solution. A light boric acid dressing is then put on the eye and fixed by a simple muslin strip tied on diagonally, to be left till the time for the opera- tion arrives. The hair of women is neatly combed back and braided. The nails are manicured and the hands are scrubbed. The patient is taken to the operating room in night clothing, i.e., all ready for bed. The eye is copiously flooded with warm boric or salt solution before, during, and after the operation. One at- tempts by this liberal use of a mild antiseptic to make up, as it were, for one's inability to employ a strong one. Sterilization of all dressings, such as bandages, cotton, gauze, and of gowns, caps, masks, inhalers, etc., is done by means of the large steam autoclaves. Usually the various articles are done up in stout cotton bags, which are securely tied. They are not removed either from the sterilizer or from the bags until needed. All ap- pliances, applications, implements, and drugs, of whatever descrip- tion, used before, during, or after the operation, are sterilized by either dry or moist heat. Everyone who has a duty to perform in connection with an opera- tion is clad in a sterile gown and in a cap to cover the hair. Nurses and aids wear gloves, while the surgeon and his immediate assistant have mouths and beards covered by masks. Surgeon's Operating Masks.—"The principal object of these convenient appliances is to protect the operative field against in- fection from the expiratory efforts of the operator and assistants in talking, coughing, sneezing, etc. They supersede the use, for the same purpose, of plain pieces of gauze tied over the lower part of the face around to the back of the head. By the latter method, however, aside from its being a far less convenient one than the other, to say nothing of the discomfort to the wearer, there was always more or less danger of having the operator's hands con- taminated by coming in contact with the hair while in the act of