INSTRUMENTS AND THEIR MANAGEMENT. 112 manner in which the present form depresses that lid gives unusual opportunity for manipulation of the fixation forceps. The whole appliance is made of solid nickel, hence easily kept bright. The arms, being flat, can be easily bent, in the fingers in order to adapt the blepharostat to the varying prominences of eye and temple. This obviates any need of the jointed arms which were also a part of the very ingenious Gaupillat blepharostat of some twenty years ago. With regard to the spring, it was discovered that its loose ends could become jammed in the slot through which glide the slides, and that so tightly as to make any movement of the arms impossible. Besides, the springs were made of steel, which soon got rusty and out of true. At my suggestion, the Messrs. Mtiller, who made the modified instrument, put on spiral springs of non-corrosive material, and with the wire at their extremities soldered into a continuous circle. The spring has barely sufficient strength to keep the grooves of the lid-holders applied to the free borders and not strong enough to stretch the eye open too forcibly. Jager's Lid Spatula.—This well-known and serviceable im- plement must be in every oculist's outfit. Lacrimal Probes and Sounds are discussed in the chapter relating to the surgery of the lacrimal apparatus. I believe, how- ever, that Weber's conical sound is not mentioned there. This is Fig. 42. a valuable instrument, but rather than have the "double-header" kind, I would choose two distinct instruments, having the top portion merely for a handle (see Fig. 42). Sewing Needles.—Aside from a very few special kinds, the ophthalmic surgeon habitually employs the various grades of regularly curved needles. The radius of the main extent of the curve of the finest needles is about 1 centimeter. From this they gradually increase up to about 1.7 centimeters, which is about the radius of the coarsest. The length of the needle corresponds to about 1 /3 the circumference of a circle. More highly curved, or those including more than 1 /3 of the circumference of the circles