563 ACCIDENTS AND COMPLICATIONS. from happening. Perhaps the greatest desideratum is that the point and edge of the knife be as sharp as it is possible to make them. With regard to the consecutive accidents—or the reactive processes—so far as they go, they are, with one exception, the same as follow extraction, being iritis, iridocyclitis, and pus infection, and require the same treatment. The exception alluded to is glaucoma, caused by the swelling of the lens matter after incision of a soft cataract or of the transparent crystalline. If the subject of such an operation is under 30 years of age, this is not an uncommon oc- currence. Hence, in operating for the first time in a given case, the cut in the capsule should be purely tentative—a mere pricking of the capsule. Next time, there having been no special reaction, the effort may be bolder. Often a lens will rapidly disappear from a tiny puncture. But they must all be closely watched, and at the first signs of high tension an incision made with the keratome and as much of the lens matter got out as is practicable, holding the iris back with the spatula as indicated (p. 494). Of course, eserin may be tried, but unless the tension subsides within a very few hours, the extraction must be made, else the sight is jeopardized. If the patient is timid or nervous, a general anesthetic would better be administered for the extraction, as the tension and hyperemia are bars to local anesthesia. The conse- quences of a linear extraction are not nearly so much to be dreaded as a few days of secondary glaucoma. Fukala, the originator of operations upon the lens for high myopia, states that latterly he makes discission in these cases, expecting later, when breaking up and swelling of the crystalline occurs, to make extraction. Secondary cataract, after-cataract, capsulo-lenticular cata- ract, membranous cataract, all refer to some form or degree of opacity, occurring in the pupil after the lens proper has disap- peared. It may be the result of accident (traumatism) or of one of the surgical measures, extraction or discission. The first are more rarely met with, the second, the busy ophthalmic surgeon encounters constantly, and it is to these, therefore, that this chapter chiefly relates. It is composed of varying masses of encapsuled, normal or degenerated lens matter, the remains of the lens capsule, more or less thickened by proliferation of its endothelium, and particularly