624 THE REMOVAL OF FOREIGN BODIES. the procedure practicable. This was through the invention, in 1879, of his electro-magnet. Notwithstanding he length of time, this instrument has held its own, and is still the favorite of its kind. It is a most valuable acquisition to the eye surgeon's outfit, and has the remarkable record of having extracted up to 75 and 85% of magnetic intraocular foreign bodies. Many of the failures were doubtless due to the fact that the metal had not been located. The magnet, together with a storage battery to energize it, can be easily carried. Or it may be put in connection with the wires for interior incandescent lighting. Hirschberg has recently had constructed a more powerful hand-magnet. These magnets have lifting powers ranging from 1 / 2 to 2 pounds—sufficient for all ordinary work—and with the addition of accumulators, etc., their pull may be still further increased. It seems strange to note that, as late as 1881, Dr. Paul Berger, of Paris, found but 31 instances in all literature of extraction of a foreign body from the posterior segment of the globe. Sulzer, realizing that the horse-shoe form g ven the ordinary per- manent magnet furnishes the greatest relative tractive force, has modified the Hirschberg magnet thus: The core is of soft iron in the form of a horse-shoe, with ends closely approximated The extremity comprising the two poles is made of two separate parts, isolated, magnetically, by a piece of copper, on the opposite side of which they diverge like a fork whose two tines fit into the members of the core. In 1881, MacHardy suggested approaching the eye supposed to contain a magnetic foreign body to a large magnet, actuated by a powerful electric machine, with the view of ascertaining if there would be any sensation in the organ indicative of the presence of the metal. In 1886, Hirschberg began his valuable series of publications detailing his experiences and his views relative to work with his electric hand-magnet (Fig. 276). In 1892, Haab, of Zurich, conceived his "giant" electro-magnet, and found that with it a magnetic foreign body could be drawn from the farthest limits of the vitreous chamber, through the lens and pupil, into the anterior chamber, by the mere application of the tip of the magnet to the cornea. At the International Congress at Rome in 1893 he recommended the "giant" electro-magnet not only