COMPLICATED AND SOFT CATARACTS. 543 with strong fixation forceps (no catch) the tendon of the superior rectus muscle. This was put into execution October 29th, and my sincere thanks, as well as those of the patient, are due the noted Italian surgeon for a measure that was truly an inspiration. The eye was cocainized, the upper lid held back, the patient told to look down, and the whole tendon of the superior rectus was caught, not in a fold, but by placing a jaw of the forceps on either side of it. A free upward section of the cornea was made with a small Graefe knife, the open sharp hook was inserted behind the lens, dug into it, and, at the first pull, the capsule ruptured and there gushed out of the incision a great quantity of liquor morgagnie. It did not get in front of the lens, yet after its escape the pupil was black—no cataract was to be seen. The first thought was, of course, that the hard nucleus had dropper! into the vitreous chamber. On peering sharply into the coloboma, however, there appeared the merest glint of gray. Still keeping a firm hold on the tendon, the hook was carefully passed flatwise behind this faint opacity, point turned forward and drawn out. W ith it came a very large nucleus of inky blackness. Strange to relate, not a drop of vitreous was lost, for not only did the grip on the superior rectus steady the globe perfectly, but it served three other most important functions, viz., it held back the upper lid, it so paralyzed the muscle that there was not the least tendency of the eye to roll upward, and, most essential of all, it caused strong tendency to closure of the wound. Fixation by the ordinary method, below the cornea, would have had the opposite effect, and there would certainly have been an outflow of vitreous. The eye recovered without accident and the patient was discharged Nov. 23d, with corrected vision of 20/70. Under treatment the left eye became quiet. I have a number of times since, in cases where there was likely to be loss of vitreous in an extraction, resorted to the Angelucci fixation, and always with the greatest satisfaction. Case 5. Example of Extraction of Cataract Dislocated and Lying in the Anterior Chamber.—William Pearson, age 34, coach- man. Admitted to the Eye and Ear Infirmary, October 15, 1892. Recurrent severe inflammation and loss of sight-of the right eye. Eye has been operated upon elsewhere (iridectomy) and had since remained quiet, though with a cataract. The day before coming to the hospital, while bridling a horse, the animal in shaking its