OPERATIONS UPON THE ORBIT. 6o6 cells or the sphenoid sinus, or a strangulating periostitis about the optic foramen, etc., causing great lowering of vision without the other characteristic signs of suppurative cellulitis. 5. Certain cases of syphilitic or tubercular osteo-periostitis of the orbital wall. 6. To get at the posterior pole of the globe for operations upon the sclera (as Mutter's resection for detachment of the retina) or for the extraction of intraocular cysticercus in that region. This last would scarcely ever need to be resorted to in this country. 7. The elucidation of puzzling cases that could depend upon some trouble in the retro-bulbar orbit. 8. The extirpation of the ciliary ganglion in glaucoma absolutum. 9. All tumors of considerable size lying near the outer wall of the orbit, as, for instance, carcinoma or sarcoma of the lacrimal gland, whose extirpation from in front would seriously endanger the function of any important nerve or other structure. With this operation there is feeling and fumbling in the dark, risk- ing to wound the larger vessels at the back of the globe, for in- stance, thereby causing atrophy of the choroid or retina in an eye whose sight might otherwise have been preserved. One is not justified in sacrificing the appearance of even a blind eye if it can be possibly avoided. THE REMOVAL OF TUMORS OF THE ORBIT. Tumors that are favorably situated, that is, those that do not lie behind or below the globe, and some of the deeper ones beneath the roof or in the upper inner angle, can be removed without resorting to a Kronlein operation by incisions either through the skin or through the conjunctiva. The various forms of cyst, and congenital angiomata may nearly all be extirpated in this way. The same may be said with respect to many of the sarcomata and other tumors. The diffuse, progressive angiomata, especially in young subjects, often admit of complete eradication. Knapp has given some excel- lent points in this connection. He says: "To treat them with liga- tion, the injection of coagulating substances, electrolysis, galvano- causis, and the like is very unsatisfactory. The only way to cure