EXTRACTION OF CATARACT. should be held back by the finger or by the Desmarres retractor. It is best to press the lid up tightly beneath the roof of the orbit with the retractor in order to discourage any contraction of the orbicularis. If the lens is still in the eye, whether or not the capsule has been incised, it should be delivered with a traction instrument (the sharp hook already referred to).1 Any attempt to express it would only lead to further loss of vitreous. The cataract having been ex- tracted, the protruding vitreous should be cut off close to the in- cision by means of delicate curved scissors, and the iris, if prolapsed, should also be cut off, as to try to replace it would most likely en- tail another gush of vitreous. If practicable, all vitreous remains are to be flushed out of the conjunctival sac by copious warm irrigation, as they strongly invite infection. The sooner the wound can be put in fair shape and the eye dressed, the better. Both eyes should be carefully bandaged, and the patient should be kept very quiet for a few days. This subject will be again considered under Extraction of Complicated Cataracts. 18. Accident.—Extrusion or entanglement of the iris at the incision is usually caused by a sudden out-gush of aqueous. This escape of aqueous is most often produced by pressure upon the globe from without, either by the operator with his instruments or by the patient with his orbicularis It is often quite an unavoidable occurrence. I: there is an extensive prolapse, especially if the iris is torn, it were best to excise a small portion at once. If there is merely a catching up of the membrane or only a slight extrusion it may be reduced. Before setting about it, it were well to pause, again closing the eye, and covering the lids lightly with the wet cotton. When the lids are opened, it is not uncommon to find that the iris has replaced itself. If not, a few drops of he boric acid solution are applied, and w th the spatula, wet with the solution, the wound is softly patted, or, as advsied by Knapp, the globe beneath the cornea is pressed upon in such a way as to cause the wound to 1 I have more recently arrived at the conclusion that there is a less radical and a better way to deal with some of these cases of vitreous previous, if one may be allowed the expression. Take for instance, one of attempted simple extraction in which the vitreous comes before the lens. Instead of resorting to the policy of at once delivering the cataract at any price, stop the operation, put the eye in the best condition possible, and apply the dressing. Then, by subsequent intervention, with the patient in narcosis and with the help of the Angelucci fixation of the globe, there may be a much better chance of saving the eye and of restoring the sight.