PREPARATION OF THE PATIENT. 5 to the operation, and should never, in case of major operations, be started less than 24 hours previously. First, on entering the hospi- tal come the taking of the histories, family, personal, and clinical, then the physical examinations, general and local. These include urinalysis, inquiry into the state of circulatory and vascular systems (if subject is not young), nose, throat, lungs, heart, digestion, etc. The bowels are emptied by broken closes of calomel followed by citrate of magnesia or salts, or by castor oil. The diet is liquid or very light. If the operation is to be under narcosis, or if the subject is nervous or apprehensive, it is well to give a small close of morphin, or chlorctone, or bromid of sodium, thirty to forty minutes before the start for the surgical room. The patient is questioned as to cough, and, if general anesthesia is contemplated, as to behavior in any former narcosis. Both eyes and their ap- pendages are thoroughly examined and the results recorded. Partic- ular care is directed to the condition of the pupils, the fundi, the cornea, the conjunctiva and the lacrimal canals. Bacteriologic investigation of even the healthy appearing conjunctiva is of positive advantage in that an incipient pathogenic or pyogenic infection may be discovered and disaster averted by a postponement of the proposed operation. The vision, the refraction, fields, etc., are noted. The subject must be made as clean as possible, but it is best to leave it to the discretion of a trained attendant whether or not regular tub bathing and shampooing be resorted to. Along with all this goes the mental or psychologic preparation. The beauties and advantages of hospital life and treatment are extolled and instructions given as to how best to profit by them, how friendly everyone is to everyone else, etc. Incidentally the patient is put through a system of training in the matter of turning the eyes in various directions, opening and closing them without undue effort, and of having them touched and handled. Unless there is some positive indication, no local preparation is inaugurated prior to one hour, or even 30 minutes, before the operation. The use of antiseptics in the conjunctival sac and of bandages for a day or two before hand is omitted as worse than useless. Much of this subject is given in the Chapter on Extraction. Suffice it to state here that, by way of local preparation the eyelids and surrounding areas are scrubbed with sterile soap and warm water, followed by