482 EXTRACTION OF CATARACT. double extraction of senile cataract, and the discussion thereon was published in the January (1904) number of the Ophthalmic Record, Chicago. The Preparation of the Patient.—Let it be understood the following precautions hold good for most of the eye operations that are practiced, whether on lids or globe. Whenever possible, the operation should be made in a well- regulated hospital. The conditions for success are neither pro- pitious nor convenient even in the best appointed homes. The patient should be admitted to the institution at least twenty-four to forty-eight hours previously in order to give time for preliminaries. A bath is usually in order, though as regards a certain proportion of these elderly individuals, we should hesitate before actually putting them into the tub. Ordinarily cleanliness from head to foot, however, must be insisted upon. It is necessary, too, that the bowels and the urinary organs be in a normal state; indeed, a good routine practice is to administer a cathartic, with calomel, the first evening at the hospital, followed by a saline draught the next morning. The diet should be as light as is consistent with health throughout the treatment. It goes without saying that at this time a careful examination should be made of the eyes and the results fully recorded. Examine for signs of arteriosclerosis and, if present, institute the regimen that is calculated to put such a subject in favorable condition for the operation. Light diet, an abundance of pure water, aperients, and, possibly, the exhibition of such medicaments as are supposed to reduce blood pressure. The surgeon in charge should be apprized of the findings so that he may be on his guard. (See chapter on Para-operative Technic.) Incidentally, a little beforehand training of the patient in the different acts he is expected to perform during the operation would be well-timed, as it tends to confidence both on his and the surgeon's part. Placing him in a chair, instilling boric acid solution into the eye, manipulating the lids, having him rotate the eyes in different directions, opening and shutting them, etc., and all without telling him why these things are done. It is the practice of some surgeons to apply a test bandage to the eye that is to be operated, leaving it over night, with the view to ascertaining whether any undue secre-