THE REMOVAL OF TUMORS OF THE ORBIT. 607 them is by extirpation. This should be done out of the healthy surroundings, avoiding cutting of the tumor. If only the afferent and efferent vessels are divided, which is, of course, unavoidable, the bleeding would not be excessive, for they, like all other orbital vessels, are small and soon stop bleeding. To avoid cutting into the tumor, and also to diminish the bleeding during the operation, I have pressed a horn plate through the cojnunctival sac, firmly against the bony wall of the orbit behind the tumor. This has served me a good purpose in dealing with some vascular tumors in the inner part of the orbit, which had pierced the lids and spread outside in the skin. I extirpated the orbital portion, from the posterior limit to the inner surface of the lids, but did not attack the palpebral portion at all. There was no more hemorrhage than in the extirpa- tion of a fibroma. I expected the palpebral portion to shrink after its supply vessels had been cut off, which it did." The best position for the skin incision is somewhere along the orbital rim. In this way the tumor is not only made most accessible, but the resulting scar is least conspicuous. Above, it is hidden by the supercilia, and in the other parts of the circuit at least masked by the natural sulcations of the skin. If the conjunctival route is chosen, it may be made in the fornices, or, in case of tumors at the nasal side, vertically at the semilunar fold. Cutaneous incision external to the inner canthus means cutting of the canaliculi or the lacrimal sac, as well as division of the internal canthal ligament, and is to be avoided if possible. The severence of the ligament is of small moment, comparatively, seeing that the fragments can be united with catgut, and the damage repaired. For tumors at the temporal side, when relatively small, and well forward, it were well to make the first step a free canthotomy and enlarge the ensuing conjunctival opening to the required size. A remarkably clear field for operating, in case of large tumors beneath the roof, at the supero-nasal angle, or around the lacrimal gland, may be obtained by shaving the brow, then beginning the incision on the med an line at the base of the nose, (fronto-nasai suture) extending it first up- ward to the level of the supercilia, thence through the median line of the hair-follicles of the eyebrow, then curving downward along the outer rim, to end on a line with the external canthus. This includes all the tissues down to the periosteum. Whenever possible,