' INDIAN " METHOD. 553 7. Unsightliness.—The frequent loss of vitreous, with its draw- ing effect upon the iris, the leaving of the iris caught in wound and the big coloboma, made yet greater through these influences, all combine to make a very ugly eye; though this is doubtless less of an objection among the dark faces and dark irides of India than among white people. 8. Expulsive hemorrhage is said to occur oftener after intra- capsular extractions, which, in view of all the circumstances, is not to be wondered at. 9. Postoperative astigmatism, according to Czermak and others, is more pronounced after this method. When the time arrives that the average operator can rid the eye at once of cataract, sub-capsular cortex, and capsule with as little ultimate damage to the integrity of the organ as it now incurs from the best chosen of other methods, opthalmic surgery will have made an enormous step in advance. That such a time has not arrived no one can deny, and few perhaps are so optimistic as to believe that it is near. Suction or Aspiration.—Next to reclination this is the most ancient means of ridding the eye of cataract, though applicable only to the softer kinds. It is said to have been practised in some of the Asiatic countries, as Persia, in very remote times, while it is certain that the Arabians employed it early in the Middle Ages. It con- sisted originally in introducing a hollow needle through the sclera into the lens and, by some means of suction, usually the mouth, evacuating the cataract. At times a small incision was first made through which to pass the canula. Early in the past century it had found favor in the eyes of the Italian surgeons, one of whom, Pecchioli, improved on the older method by first making keratonyxis (discission) and after the lens matter was well broken up, inserting a hollow needle and aspirating. In England, during the early sixties, the operation, for a few years, numbered among its prose- lytes such distinguished men as Teale, Lawson, and even Bowman. The last-mentioned invented an aspirator for the purpose (Snellen). The last revivals of it were in Brussels, Belgium, about 1875, by Coppez and by Redard, the latter of whom, as recently as 1887, devised an aspirator which did away with the reversed syringe, as the suction engine, reverting, in this particular, to the ancient type and