UPON THE CONJUNCTIVA. OPERATIONS 35° Great care should be exercised in the process of uncovering the cornea where the destruction of that membrane has been deep, lest the anterior chamber be opened. Optical iridectomy is occasionally required in connection with cicatricial pterygium. The tendency of pterygium to return after operations, seems to depend upon the manner of its removal. Failure to cure does not hang so much upon the specific method that is chosen, nor, as was formerly supposed, upon any inherent proneness of these growths to recidivate, as upon the neglect or the lack of certain essential condi- tions. Among the causes of non-success stress is laid upon the following: (a) Failure to properly cover the scleral defect or so to fix the covering as to keep it away from the cornea. (b) Incomplete removal of the growth from the cornea, especially the head. (c) Want of care in placing the conjunctival sutures. Pulling and tearing the delicate membrane, using needles and thread that are too large, and taking with them bites that are insufficient. (d) Leaving a thick growth of episcleral tissue at the corneal margin. (e) Operating when the whole conjunctiva is hyperemic or inflamed. (/) Inadequate bandaging and allowing the patient too much liberty during the first few days after the operation. The causes (a) and (d) are those that are, perhaps, most often operative. After having removed a pterygium, no matter by what method, if the sclera adjacent to the cornea is left exposed over an area, say of one-half a square centimeter, the defect were better covered at once. A most satisfactory manner of doing this is by means of a Thiersch graft, as first practised by the late Professor Hotz, of Chicago. The graft is taken from the inner side of the upper arm or from behind the ear, and is cut so that it bridges the conjunctival gap in the vertical sense, but is narrower in the lateral sense. It is placed in the middle of the scleral defect and held in position by two sutures, one above and one below. Thus the graft keeps clear of the cornea. Thiersch epidermic grafts are preferable to those that are shaved from the mucous membrane of the mouth,