INSTRUMENTS AND THEIR MANAGEMENT. 88 scissors are also useful in the excision of minute tumors of the con- junctiva and about the lid margins. They have largely given way to the De Wecker's Forceps Scissors (Plate VII).—Many of the merits of this valuable instrument are discussed in the chapter on Iridec- tomy. It is marvelously contrived, yet simplicity itself. The scissors arrangement is peculiar in that the blades are not united by a pivot. The fastenings are high up, one nearly midway of the branches and the other at the top. The lower one is so constructed that, in closing the wings with the fingers, it forces the branches apart. This constitutes the spring that keeps the blades open— or opens them after closure. The blades are about 7 mm. in length and about 1 1/2 mm. wide at the base. The ends of the blades are made both blunt and sharp, or one blunted and the other sharp For my part, I prefer to have them both blunt. The scissors are set at an angle of 1250 to the branches, or a reverse angle of 550. The entire length of the branches, including the button at the top, is a little more than ten centimeters, and their greatest width 8 mm. These are the dimensions given the instru- ment by De Wecker and by his instrument maker, Matthieu. Common faults of it, as it appears in the shops, are heaviness, too strong a spring, and want of proper coaptation in the blades. The great advantage the forceps scissors possess over ordinary iris scissors is, that by the upright position in which the instrument is held while making the excision of the iris, the hand is brought close up to the site of operation, which adds immensely to precision. Besides their legitimate office of cutting the iris, they are also valuable for extending an insufficient corneal section in the operations for cataract. Other Forceps Scissors.—Any than those of De Wecker are seldom employed; yet there are times, as, for example, when one has to deal with a dense membranous cataract, a closed pupil with aphakia, that defies all other means of establishing an opening, when a tiny species of scissors, suitable for work in the anterior chamber, becomes an absolute necessity Fortunately, these needs are found in the Charriere capsule scissors or the Dowell iris scissors. The first is patterned after the ingenius Desmarres' capsule forceps; the second enjoys a most fitting model all its own.