569 DIVISION WITH SCISSORS. needle passed through the cornea, in the horizontal meridian, about two or three millimeters from the limbus, and the point pushed into the center of the cataract. The eye is now steadied by the needle, the forceps is dispensed with, and the other needle is similarly inserted on the opposite side and its point also made to enter the center of the cataract. If the two needles are properly adjusted, their two spear-shaped blades will lie flatwise, one against the other, in the horizontal plane of the eye. Now the two handles are made to approach each other, thus separating the points, like opening the blades of a pair of scissors, until a satisfactory orifice is torn through the cataract. A pause is then made in order to fix the fragments, then the first movement of the handles is reversed, and they are withdrawn in the same sense that they were entered. The distance from the point of the needle to the shoulder or stop ought not to be so great as to allow deep wounding and stirring of the vitreous for fear of exciting a hyalitis. Eight milli- meters to one centimeter is ample, and twelve milimeters, which is a common length, is too great. The after-treatment of discission, arrachement, and dilaceration is, as a rule, neither long nor eventful. Immediately the operation is completed, the eye is dressed in the same manner as after extrac- tion. The patient may be permitted to walk from the operating- table to his room. At the end of twenty-four hours the eye should be inspected, and if all signs are propitious at the end of forty-eight hours, a shade or medium smoke coquilles may be substituted for the dressing. It is wise to insist that the patient be moderately quiet and free from exposure for some days and that he does not pass from observation under ten days or two weeks. Division with Scissors.—There will always be a small class of after-cataracts to confront us that is adapted to none of the methods just described. Where the cataract is quite dense and attached to the iris or where the pupil is much misplaced outward from the center or much contracted. In fact, the conditions are very similar to those that call for iridotomy. Here some form of tiny scissors may take the place of needle or knife. This necessitates the making, first, of a fairly extensive corneal section, which is ac- complished much in the same manner as for iridectomy, the difference being that it is desirable to make a small opening in a given part of