OPERATIONS UPON THE GLOBE. 454 left to the discretion of the surgeon. In spite of the utmost pre- caution on the surgeon's part and the most praiseworthy conduct on that of the patient, a prolapse will sometimes follow the knife. This is particularly true of iridectomy in eyes whose tension is raised. 4. Iridodialysis, other than that produced by engaging the iris with the keratome, may happen because of an unexpected move- ment of the patient while the iris is in the grasp of the forceps, and as a result of a too peripheral seizure of the membrane. It is im- portant, therefore, that one try to prevent the one by gentle words of encouragement to the patient and by anticipating his motions, and to avoid the other by a suitable hold upon the iris. 5. Leaving behind a pupillary bridge is not always intentional or desirable. It ensues most often through failure to draw the sphincter well out before cutting off -the iris. Again, where exists posterior synechia, it may come of grasping the iris too far from the free border, or it may be inevitable on account of the firmness of the adhesion. A bridge that is free can best be dealt with by means of the blunt hook. The blepharostat is removed, a pad of cotton, wet with boric solution is laid on the closed lids for a few minutes while the anterior chamber is partially reestablished. This facilitates the manipulation of the hook. The eye is opened. The blepharo- stat is replaced, the globe fixed, the hook inserted, flatwise, at the incision, the bridge deftly caught, so as not to wound the lens, the hook again turned flat, brought out, and the strip of iris severed. A tightly adherent bridge would better be left unmolested. 6. Leaving the uveal lining of the excised portion adherent to the anterior capsule is an unavoidable accident in complete posterior synechia. Whether the object of the iridectomy is optic or thera- peutic, the only alternatives, in this connection, are to leave the eye to its fate or to extract the lens. If the eye be glaucomatous, the extraction would better be made at once, first enlarging the corneal incision, then making free capsulotomy in the area occupied by the pupil and the pigmented coloboma. Should the tension be normal, further operating would better be postponed. For self-protection, in no case will the surgeon fail to obtain beforehand the patient's con- sent—or its equivalent—to an extension of the measure originally proposed.