EXTRACTION OF CATARACT. 528 in nearly every instance. Indeed, I doubt not, were the originators of iridectomy, in connection with extraction, alive to-day in this era of antiseptic surgery, they would be among the strongest ad- vocates of the simple extraction. For it must be remembered that v. Graefe, with the small iridectomy he made in conjunction with his postcorneal linear section, and Jacobson, who a year or two later operated downward with a very broad iridectomy, both sought by means of the coloboma not to avoid iris complications or to favor the removal of lens remains, but to lessen the chances of suppuration and panophthalmitis. In skillful hands the simple operation is the safer and better in every way. If, on the other hand, the operator is wanting in experience or is not sure of his technic, then, perhaps, in the in- terests of all concerned, his choice should be for the combined or, better still, for extraction after a preliminary iridectomy. The writer's observation and experience confirm him in the belief that, all things else being equal, there are fewer accidents both during and after the operation of simple extraction, and that when these do occur, they can be better dealt with. Nevertheless, iridectomy in relation to operations for cataract has, and will ever retain, an important place, whether it precedes the extraction by a certain period or is coincident with it. Indications for the Combined Operation.—Among the cataracts that require it may be mentioned those whose capsules are adherent to the iris, unripe cataracts, or those having a quantity of soft, transparent cortex, diabetic cataracts, and those attended by a rigid pupil, or one irresponsive to mydriatics; as also the luxated and tremulous cataracts. These indications, it may be added, are not always apparent when the exigencies of the operation are being discussed. Hence, in preparing the instruments for any cataract operation where iridectomy has not already been performed, the iris scissors and forceps must never be omitted. As to the kind of iridectomy, there are a number of opinions and practices. A few years back, the majority of operators made what is called the "keyhole" coloboma, requiring for its proper fashioning, three snips of the scissors. The first, straight from the pupillary border to the periphery of the iris; the second, along the periphery to form the base of the coloboma, and the third, from