OPERATIONS UPON THE CONJUNCTIVA. 326 that he believes with Arlt that cases of total atrophy (symblepharon) are, for the surgeon, a noli me tangere. And Fuchs flatly asserts that "cases of extensive symblepharon posterius and, obviously, those of symblepharon totalis, are incurable." It is a relief to know- that the gloomiest of these gloomy views are not altogether war- ranted by the present status of the surgery in question and, as it has now been some years since the two last-mentioned eminent men expressed their opinions, it may be pretty safely assumed that they, too, have come to regard the matter in a more favorable light. That perfectly satisfactory results can be obtained in many of the most unpromising cases of total symblepharon has been, during the past ten years, positively and repeatedly demonstrated. It must be borne in mind, however, that a single operation will seldom suffice. The happiest issues have often come only after several interventions. It were bootless to attempt the description of any considerable number of the myriad surgical measures that have been devised for the higher degrees of symblepharon, for the reason that the vast majority of them have availed nothing. It will serve better to call attention to a few that have proven more or less effective. The separating of the lid from the globe is usually a simple affair—to keep them separate is the perplexing thing. Obviously, this can be done only by interposing two leaves of tissue that will unite readily, one with the inner surface of the lid and the other with the cor- responding surface of the globe, yet remaining distinct as regards their own opposing faces. To this end have been employed: (i) mucous grafts taken from the mouth, from the fellow eye, or that of another person, from the vagina, from the eyes of rabbits, hares, and dogs; (2) flaps of skin turned in from adjacent parts of the face, and (3) cutaneous grafts after the methods of Wolfe and Thiersch. 1. Mucous grafts undoubtedly afford the most suitable material with which to replace the lost conjunctiva, especially when the cornea is intact or, rather, when the eye is capable of useful vision. Epidermis is always irritating to the cornea. It may be from its harshness, from dryness, because of its oily surface, or from con- tained hairs, etc., and although its character does change in time so as to partake more of the nature of mucous membrane, it never entirely ceases to be dermic, and requires to be frequently cleansed