446 OPERATIONS UPON THE GLOBE. convex edge is placed at the sclero-corneal junction, with the blade set at about the angle which is given to that of the lance-knife in an ordinary iridectomy, and the penetration is achieved by slowly sawing, meanwhile maintaining the same inclination and keeping parallel with the limbus. As soon as a drop of aqueous appears at any part of the cut, the scarificator is put aside and the incision is finished by means of small • blunt-pointed scissors. Dianoux,1 proposed a modification of this method which consisted in substi- tuting a Beer's cataract knife for the scarificator and a Weber probe- pointed lacrimal knife for the scissors. A better instrument than either of the last two—one less likely to wound the iris—would seem to be a small model of the Desmarres keratome. Burnett,2 of Washington, in cases of acute glaucoma, when the anterior chamber is abolished, and the iris is reduced to a narrow rim or is lost sight of beneath the scleral border of the cornea, proceeds as follows: By means of a rather short stout Graefe knife, held at right angles to the surface of the globe, the incision is ac- complished, from without, by successive strokes of the point. The curve of the cornea is followed for a distance commensurate with the extent of the opening desired, and as far back as is needful to insure the most peripheral position of the wound. The bottom of the cut thus carefully made finally gives way, at some point, evinced by a gush of aqueous, and, usually, a prolapse of iris. At this point is introduced a bulbous pointed, triangular knife (Fig. 228), and section of the already thinned tissue is completed. Burnett aptly observes that bleeding, which in this location would otherwise prove embarrassing, is prevented by the instillation of adrenal solution. (B) Grasping and Withdrawing the Iris.—These acts are executed by some form either of forceps or hook. For uncompli- cated iridectomies, the forceps is usually preferred. The general model conforms to the original instrument of F. Jaeger, of Vienna, 1 Ibid., p. 44. 2 Am. Journal of Ophthalmology, April, 1902. Fig. 228.