HISTORICAL. 585 iridectomy—deep uveitis, with punctate keratitis, and almost constantly recurring entanglements of the iris and shreds of capsule in the angles of the incision, leading to drawing upward of the iris, to dense secondary cataract, and to closure of the pupil. Moreover, it was but natural that in addition, and as sequels to these mishaps, the still greater terrors, glaucoma and sympathetic ophthalmia, became more obtrusive. De Wecker1 says: "Personne ne pourra nier que les ophthalmies sympathiques, presque inconnues au temps de Daviel, Wenzel, Beer, Sichel et Desmarres, n'aient fait leur triste apparition que depuis, d'apres Jacobson et de Graefe, on a pousse davantage la section vers la region sclero- ticale, et qu'on s'est rapproche plus en plus de Tangle iriclien, mis en outre a deconvert par l'excision de l'iris, generalised comme methode operatoire." For these reasons this master was soon constrained to. alter his course. As Panas2 expresses it, " De Graefe with his well- . ... .r Fig. 255.—Von Graefe, 1S67. known sincerity m matters scientific, was the first to indicate the weak points of his method." Consequently he brought his incision further forward, approaching more nearly the small corneal flap, and reduced the size of his iridectomy (Fig. 255). Having heard much of the brilliant results achieved by Bowman and Critchett, with their scoop extraction, and, to again quote Panas, " Desirous of observing their work, in the fall of 1864, he made a trip to London, and on his return to Berlin, he made 118 extractions after the English mode. Among the num- ber, lie had 11 total failures by panophthalmitis or consecutive cyclitis, 28 occlusions of the pupil, that necessitated ultimate intervention, and 11 abundant losses of vitreous; not to mention the fact that, in many cases, the ejection of the lens remains was laborious and often incomplete." So, with indomitable perseverance, he strove, till, by his modified flap operation and the accession of the compressive bandage— about i8()d—he was at last able to announce that in goo consecutive 1 Traite conplet d' Opht. de Weckerand Landolt, vol. ii, p. 1016. 2 Panas, Maladies des Yeux, vol. i, p. 576.