364 OPERATIONS UPON THE CONJUNCTIVA. themselves. The upper lid is held back by an assistant with a sublimated cotton sponge. The patient is made to look far up- ward, the operator everts the lower lid with his left hand, while with his right he takes a pair of curved scissors, places them, convexity downward, on the conjunctiva, and begins the incision from the outer side. The plica semilunaris, if also affected, would better be left for another sitting. If deemed necessary to excise it at once, the resulting wound should not be continuous with that in the fornix, else an ugly scar will ensue. Sutures are usually omitted. After the instillation of atropin and dusting the opening with airol, the eye is bandaged. The dressings are removed at the end of 48 hours, and the conjunctiva is washed with sublimate solution, 1-5000. 2. Combined excision consists in cutting out the trachomatous transition folds together with the affected part of the adjacent tarsus, and its sphere is limited to the upper lid. The lower tarsus never requires exsections. The indications for this muco-tarsal excision are: First.—In all chronic forms of trachoma, with characteristic follicles, associated with infiltration of the tarsus, whether the cornea is involved or not. Second.—In extensive chronic trachoma of the fornices and palpe- bral conjunctiva, independent of the condition of the tarsus, if the cornea is involved or about to be. Third.—In gelatinous trachoma, even when mainly confined to the fornices, if the convex edge of the tarsus shows typical thickening. Fourth.—In already cured trachoma of the fornices if the palpe- bral conjunctiva and tarsus are gelatinous—especially if, in addition, there is secondary affection of the cornea. The contraindications are: First.—Recent cases without corneal complications. Second.—The advent of the stage of scarring, and the granular process has ceased or is in the act of ceasing. Third.—Marked tendency to shrinkage (Xerosis) of the con- junctival sac. Technic.—The eye is prepared as for simple excision. The upper lid is inverted and two pairs of special fixation forceps, with catches, are made to grasp the tarsus near its extremities, in the horizontal