96 INSTRUMENTS AND THEIR MANAGEMENT. that one needs to procure. These are distinguished only by the disposition of their teeth, and are known as median-toothed and back-toothed. In general construction, the median-toothed is like the mouse-tooth forceps, the only difference being in the size and shape of the extremities. The terminal thirds of the branches are cut down to about 1/3 the dimensions of the mouse-tooth, and they are made to end in a gentle curve that lies in the same plane as the flat of the branches. This curve extends for one centimeter from the end of the forceps, and it has a radius of about 6 mm. There is considerable diversity in the inclination of the chord of the arc that constitutes the curve, with reference to the axis of the forceps. As it is with the blades of the lance-keratomes, so should it be with this inclination, i.e., it should be the same in the several forceps. A convenient angle for the chord is 45°. That is, the grand angle is 1350. The roughening on the branches that serves to give it a safe hold to the fingers is situated lower down than it is in the mouse- tooth forceps. This is the forceps for all uncomplicated iridectomies. For iridectomies in cases where there is posterior synechia, or for hose in aphakial eyes, etc., the back-tooth iris forceps is the more serviceable. Here the teeth, instead of being situated between the opposing ends of the branches, arise from the back, or convex, edges of the branch terminals. In the one instance the bite of the teeth is at right angles to the axis of the forceps, and in the other, parallel with it. In one, the teeth are flush with the ends of the blades, in the other flush with the back edges of the blades, and on one side with the end also. It is a serious fault in this variety to have the teeth at a little distance from the end of the branches on both sides, for in attempting to seize the iris that membrane might be pushed down, out of reach of the teeth, by the free end of the forceps. The back-tooth forceps often have five teeth—two fitting the interspaces of three. Forster's are thus. Sometimes there are more than five. Again, the teeth are directed somewhat backward and project in interlocking; or they are made bayonet fashion, i.e., are made to occupy a plane still farther back than the posterior edge of the jaws. Such arrangements have very doubtful advantages and some serious drawbacks. The projecting teeth make them difficult to insert without catching, and, with the long, sharp, projecting teeth, there is danger of wounding the lens