39 IRRIGATION OR DOUCHING. strongly to the aseptic instinct, because of their transparency, and their resistance to all modes of sterilization. The force of the stream is governed by the height to which the source is elevated, and, to a limited degree, by compressing the tube with the fingers. There are different devices by which the liquid is delivered to the eye after passing through the rubber pipe. The simplest is a nozzle composed of the glass tube of an eye-dropper. Then there are the multiple vent-nozzles, some form of which is very desirable in irrigation of the upper cul-de-sac, particularly in purulent conjunctivitis. Among the simplest is one of glass, celluloid or hard rubber, of flattened, rounded shape, after the manner of Jaeger's lid spatula, with several openings in the free, or specialized, end. An effective, though rather complex attachment is the irrigating retractor of Lagrange (Plate YIII, No. 93). As to the ejectors, their name is legion, and they are, on the whole, least to be recommended, as they are, for the most part, complex, unreliable, and bunglesome. The one uncompounded style of this class is the rubber bulb alone, or the bulb with glass spout, as represented by the common eye-dropper. Their streams are steady, intermittent, or broken into spray. Among the last, one of the least objectionable as well as of the earliest, was suggested by Agnew, of New York, and is known as the Manhattan Eye-douche (Fig. 24). Its extreme compactness enables one to manage it easily with one hand. Eye Cup or Bath.—This is the primitive douche. It is a small cup whose lip is designed to fit snugly just within the bony rim of the orbit. It is filled and put into position with the head thrown far forward—prone. The head is then inclined in the opposite direction, or supine, and while the cup is held close, the eye is al- ternately opened and shut. This serves to bathe the cornea and part of the ocular conjunctiva, but, as the lids fit almost water-tight to the globe, the liquid does not reach the fornices to any great extent. Irrigation or Douching.—All solutions must be freshly made and of the purest ingredients it is possible to obtain. As a rule, the