THE REMOVAL OF FOREIGN BODIES. 628 of swelling and inflammation. It is well to bear in mind not to give undue credence to the statements of the average patient. The ophthalmoscope, in the relatively few instances when it reveals the foreign body, is the best means of localization we have for the posterior half of the vitreous chamber, as, in addition to the exact spot, it shows something of the size of the foreign body and something of the nature of the bed in which it lies. It is also useful in tracking the metal through the media, by means of traces of blood, exudate, air-bubbles, etc. At times, when not capable of revealing the thing itself, it may, at least, indicate its hiding place. Rarely it shows siderosis of the vitreous in the vicinity of the foreign body. The Sideroscope.—The first to apply the principle of the magnetic needle for the purpose of ascertaining the existence of iron in the eye was Poolly, of Brooklyn, who, in 1880, published the results of his experiments in Knapp's Archives. Shortly after- ward Thompson and Widerman each suggested a form of galvan- ometer. These contrivances, while based on true scientific laws, proved insufficient for detecting the presence of any but relatively large masses of metal. In 1894, Gallemaerts presented to the French Society of Ophthalmology the magnetometer of Gerard, which was an improvement on the instrument of Pooley, it having had the power of responding to a bit of iron within the eye weighing as little as 1/2 milligram. This should be sensitive enough of all practical purposes of diagnosis, seeing that the weight of the particle is rarely below 2 milligrams. The sideroscope of Asmus, which has had considerable vogue, was still more sensitive than that of Gerard. Like that of the latter, the needle is suspended with a single long strand of the silk-worm's web. The only material difference is that in the Asmus sideroscope the ordinary magnetic needle is inter- changeable with an astatic needle. The variations of the needle are observed from a distance of 3 or 4 meters through a telescope similar to that used by surveyors. The greatest objection to this form is its extreme sensitiveness, making, when near objects of iron or trolley and arc-light mains, for instance, its readings mislead- ing. Hirschberg is the inventor of a sideroscope, or " Eisenspaher," somewhat less sensitive and much less complicated than that of Asmus. In it he dispenses with the telescope, and has a small lamp