ENUCLEATION. 4"5 vitreous, namely, one each by Dransart, Waldispuhl, Van Duyse, Forget, Hotz, Nieden, and De Wecker, and two by Schmidt-Rimpler. ForgetV case can hardly be included as it was one of "optic neuritis occurring ig months after evisceration," nor can Hotz's,2 for it was one of " mild optic neuritis 3 weeks after evisceration, and recovered without removal of the stump." Since the operation of evisceration came into vogue there have been reported 36 cases of sympathetic ophthalmia coming after enucleation. In view of the fact that all ophthalmic surgeons and some who are not make enucleations, and that the vast majority of them make exenterations (of some kind), the few unfortunate results just quoted in connection with these two measures are of little consequence. Especially is this true of evisceration, when one considers that many of the so-called eviscerations have not resulted in the thorough cleaning out of the scleral cavity, and many others, in which although this cleaning out may have been thorough, have finished by the tying of a purse-string suture or of some other kind that caused strangulation of the circulation of the conjunctiva and that of Tenon's capsule, thus producing intense inflammatory reaction. On the other hand, in view of the relatively small number of surgeons who have made the Mules' and Frost's operation, the showing is bad indeed for those procedures. Intracapsular, or Intratenonian Prothesis.—In 1887 Frost and Lang,3 simultaneously conceived and carried out the idea of implanting the glass ball of Mules in the fibrous capsule of the globe, after enucleation. Since that, glass having shown a decidedly effective propensity for extricating itself, other sub- stances have been employed. Although the relatively few advocates of the measure out of the many who have tried it have expressed themselves as eminently satisfied with their results, a glance at a partial list of the different materials with which it has been attempted to replace the living bulbus is not calculated to strengthen their position in the matter: 1 Arch, d'oph., p. 693. 2 Trans. Oph. Sec. Am. Med. Assoc., 1893, p. 93. 3 Brit. Med. Jour., \'ol. i, pp. 1043 and 1153. 3°