EXTIRPATION OF THE PALPEBRAL GLAND. lima bean. It is an acinose gland, and when stripped of its capsule, it appears as a grayish, red mass of closely packed lobules. The lower, or palpebral gland, only about one-half the size of the upper, is composed of rather scattering lobules, lying just external to the outer third of the upper conjuctival fornix. The lowest lobule is usually found in the immediate vicinity of the outer canthus. It may be above, level with, or even below it. The outer fibres of the levator tendon pass between the orbital and palpebral lacrimal glands. Each gland has separate and common ducts all emptying into the outer half of the fornix conjunctiva about four millimeters above the convex border of the tarsus. Removal of the whole gland has been accomplished through the fornix or transition part of the conjunctiva. It is done by first making a free canthotomy, everting and stretching upward the lid, till the superior border of the tarsus (now, of course, the inferior) is about opposite the bony rim of the orbit, then making an incision just below and parallel with the tarsus, from the junction of its middle and outer third and extending beyond its temporal extremity. The same incision enables one to get at and shell out both glands, but the operation is a difficult one. The conjunctival opening, therefore, is limited in its use mainly to the removal of the pal- pebral gland. Extirpation of the Palpebral Gland.—Cocain anesthesia suffices. When the lid is drawn up, as above described, and the patient is made to look far downward, as lie should throughout the operation, the imprint of the lobules can be seen. Should the patient be unruly, or should the eye roll involuntarily up, an as- sistant grasps, with strong forceps, the tendon of the superior rectus, as per Angelucci, a trick that works like a charm to steady both patient and globe, as well as to hold the latter down. A little adrenalin solution, painted on to the spot will cause immediate blanching, when the incision can be made and the gland exposed with but slight bleeding. As advised by Panas, a strong probe may be passed down behind the everted upper lid to bring the gland into better reach of hand and sight. The incision is best made with a small scalpel having a highly convex edge. The wound is held open with the smallest-sized retractors or the tiny strabismus hooks of Stevens, and the gland