OPERATIONS UPON THE GLOBE. 43 2 of optic iridectomy—or any, save in preparatory iridectomy—is to be deprecated. Sphincterectomy.—The most eligible method of optic irid- ectomy, where existing conditions permit the more centrally placed coloboma, as in central leucoma of the cornea, is what is called sphincterectomy, and is that with which Critchett replaced his un- fortunate iridesis. Briefly described, the manner of performing it is as follows: Incision 3 or 4 mm. in extent with a narrow keratome, beginning in the opaque zone at the sclero-corneal junc- tion. If deftly made, the knife may be quickly withdrawn without loss of the aqueous and without causing the iris to follow the blade into the wound. These two things are desirable for two reasons, viz., a certain depth of the anterior chamber favors the manipulation of the iris forceps, and having the iris spread out in its normal relations is conductive to the accurate dosage of the excision. With fine, moderately curved, back-toothed forceps (or median-toothed), the iris is seized near the pupil, drawn out sufficiently to expose the pupillary border, and a small triangle of the uveal lining, and, with a single snip of the curved iris scissors, or the De Wecker forceps scissors, the blades crosswise to the primary incision, a small piece, comprising a little more than the sphincter itself, is excised. The unsevered portion is gently replaced with the spatula, the eye washed with a mild antiseptic solution, and the dressings applied. 3. Therapeutic Iridectomy.—This variety of iridectomy is either prophylactic or curative or both. In the first capacity its chief indication is in a. Recurrent Iritis or Irido-cyclitis.—In the second capacity therapeutic iridectomy finds its main office in b. Glaucoma.—It is both remedy and preventive in certain instances of c. Foreign bodies in, tumors, parasites, and prolapse of, the iris, a. Iridectomy has proven of great value in cases of partial posterior synechia, characterized by relapses of iritis, provided the operation is made in an interval when the eye is absolutely quiet. This is especially true of cases where exists exclusion of the pupil more or less complete. For these, the excised portion of iris need be only of small dimensions, and no necessarily peripheral, except