614 OPERATIONS UPON THE ORBIT. apex, not too tightly, a long strip of gauze packed in on top of it, and a pad of cotton laid on the lids, held on by a strip tied around the head. After these have been in for a few minutes, or long enough for the active bleeding to cease, they are removed—the wad by its string—the cavity is lightly packed with one long strip of bichlorid gauze well covered with vaseline to keep it from adhering to the sides of the cavity, the incision at the outer canthus is sutured and the bandage is put on. Should the bleeding persist in spite of the tampon, adrenalin, the persulphate of iron, or even the thermic cautery may be called into requisition. The dressing should be changed once or twice a day, and the orbit irrigated, in order to keep it sweet. The technic of partial exenteration is very like that just de- scribed, the greatest difference being that just sufficient of the cone of soft parts is removed to accomplish the object sought—whether it be a relatively small tumor mass, or to prepare the cavity for the ray treatment. Usually almost everything is cleared away down to the periosteum. This is accomplished as nearly as possible by stub scissors and blunt dissection, without the aid of sharper instruments. The cavity is soon covered with a luxuriant growth of granulations, even partly filled with them. These, in process of organization and contraction, draw the lids inward, producing a ghastly cup. This can be, in great measure, prevented by opening up the cavity be- tween the lids and the orbit about the time the granulations are at the height of their growth, and putting in a lead or a tin plate covered with Thiersch grafts, raw side out—an artificial conjunctival sac, as it were. One or both lids may have to be removed because of infiltrations of the growth, or, as said before, they may have been already destroyed by the disease. The defect thus left may be covered later by a pediceled graft from the temple, or by Thiersch grafts. The plan suggested by Noorden, of covering the entire cavity with epithelial grafts the moment the operation is finished, does not give as good cosmetic results as when one waits for the granulations to partly fill the orbit. When there was no involvement of the lids, Langebeck, in order to preserve them, in a case of very large tumor, circumcised them, except a pedicle, 2 centimeters wide, at the usual side. The