67 KNIFE NEEDLE. Continuing the simile, the tip of the beak is on a lower level than the top of the head. In other words, the back of the blade is a parabola. This disposition of the point makes it easier to introduce and to push beneath the iris than if it were on a level, as is the Graefc cystotome, or actually in advance of the rest of the blade, as in the Knapp (Fig. 36). From the back of the head to the tip of the beak is 2 mm. The center of the crescent that constitutes the blade is 1 mm. wide, or even 1 1/2 mm. The shank measures 22 to 25 mm. The objects in having it larger than the Graefe are to make of it a cut- ting instrument of greater significance, thereby enhancing the pre- cision w ith which it can be guided and inspected, and, in a measure, to forestall the ravages of those who afterward put it in order. ( >ne grinding will often reduce asmallercystotome to a bare remnant, and leave no semblance of its former shape This instrument is not so large, even at the beginning of its career, as to make its size an objection. Of course, it is not presumed that the entire edge of the blade will engage in the capsule at any one operation, but it is there, and ready to cut, if called upon. Contrary to what has been said relative to the length of blade in the cystotome, I have noted, time and again, both in operating upon pigs' eyes and upon the human subject, that the tiny spike of the pseudo-Graefe instrument, especially after a few improvements (?) at the hands of the sharpener, failed to so much as touch the capsule in places. With the anterior chamber empty, and the lens bulging forward, its anterior convexity is rather increased, so that, with an insignificant blade, unless one lakes pains to see that the point is applied, by lifting the handle, the shank will rest on the summit of the lens, in starting the capsulotomy, and the point be thus kept from reach- ing the capsule. Knife Needle.—One of these would be thousands. Were this article to specify the model, it would be that of Knap]). Not the pigmy tiling only ^ or 4 mm. in length one sometimes sees going under this name, but a blade of respectable proportions, or about 8 mm. long and 11,2 mm. wide. Nor should it have a shoulder, or offset, where knife and shank unite, as is most often the case. This goes with a jerk through the incision made by the knife. Pagenstecher's discission knife is also a first-class instrument, and is well suited for discission by the way of the corneal base, or