OPERATIONS UPON THE GLOBE. 396 delicate forceps and knife, the upper layers of the outlined portion carefully dissected out, leaving a flat, transparent bottom to the excavation. A young rabbit is chloroformed, the trephine is set for 1.5 to 2 mm. (for here the whole thickness is removed), the graft is excised, and quickly transferred to its destined place. The eye is closed and bandaged. No sutures are used. Zirm modified this operation in 1905 by using a graft from a human cornea instead of from that of a rabbit. The trephine is used as in the von Hippel method. Eserin is instilled if the anterior chamber is present. Zirm gives, as essentials for the successful performance of the operation, deep anesthesia, strict asepsis, the avoidance of antiseptics, and the protection of the graft between two pieces of gauze, moistened with sterile physiologic salt solution, and keeping it warm in steam until it can be placed in position. The graft is held in position by two conjunctival sutures which pass over it in such a way as to form a St. Andrew's cross at the center. In the case reported the patient, a man 45 years old, had 5/50 vision; 5/20 with a convex lens, and J 13, seven months after the operation. TATTOOAGE OF THE CORNEA. The staining of the cornea in cases of leucoma, partial or total, is of ancient origin. Galen practiced cauterizing the surface with a red-hot stylet and afterward rubbing into the raw area powdered nut-galls mixed with iron or a mixture of powered pomegranate bark and a salt of copper. The first to make use of tattooage proper, i.e., with a needle and India ink, which is the most approved substance, was Taylor, the noted English quack oculist, near the middle of the 18th century. At first the ink was put into a cannula, inside of which the needle was worked. It is, however, to De Wecker1 that we are mainly indebted for a distinctive method and largely also for the technic of the modern operation. The object of tattooage is either optic or cosmetic. The indica- tions for optic tattooing would be found in such cases as aniridia, albinism, coloboma of the iris, and in diffuse nebulosities of the cornea—the last in order to make the vision more net. In these 'Union med., mars, 1870, and Chirurg. oculaire, p. 181.