PARA-OPERATIVE TECHNIC. 36 at least, of those with the larger bulbs, for glass and rubber can both be filled. Those with tiny bulbs are specially designed to make it impossible to fill them full—an admirable thing in an unsterilized dropper, as the rubber cavity contains a powder that contaminates. Whether the narrowed extremity is curved or straight makes little difference, though the straight one is more easily cleaned, and will enter more readily into the mouths of vials. The smaller the opening in the end and the sharper the end itself, the smaller the drop that is formed, and small drops are sometimes preferable to large ones. The pipette is free from some of the annoyances caused by the rubber, is easily sterilized, and is sure to work and not to leak. Who has not seen the dropper, in careless hands, made to suck back, by relaxing the hold on the rubber bulb while the tip is in fluid, like blood, or pus? In truth, allowing the tip of either dropper or pipette to actually touch the parts is inexcusable. Much vexation—even calamity—has been caused by getting droppers mixed, putting borric acid solution, for example, into a glaucomatous eye with a dropper that has been used for atropin solution. To obviate this, the bulbs may have marked on them, with indelible ink, the name of its particular drug; or the rubber may be of different color for each of the more mischief-making solutions. The method of instilling drops with either the eye-dropper or the pipette deserves a word. A few drops are drawn into the glass tube, the forefinger of the free hand is placed just beneath the lower lid, which is lightly depressed, to open the lower cul-de-sac, the patient is told to look upward, the dropper is approached till its tip is about one-eighth of an inch above the center of the free border, when a drop is squeezed out and allowed to touch at that point. It immediately enters the conjunctival sac—attracted by the moisture on the inner side of the lid (Fig. 22). If the patient cannot control the lids, the middle finger holds up the upper lid while the index depresses the lower. In cases of children and excessively touchy persons, it is made easier by putting them flat on their backs. The drops should never fall from a height, but should either be made to touch the free border, or be let fall a few millimeters only into the inner canthus. If the cul-de-sac is full of tears, the drop will simply cause an overflow and be wasted.