554 EXTRACTION OF CATARACT. substituting the mouth. By its advocates the method was deemed proper for just the class of cataracts for whose removal the surgeons of to-day make either discission or linear extraction, viz., recent traumatic cataracts, the yet unexplained soft cataracts of young children, and those that occur spontaneously in adults under middle life. Couching, depression, reclination, displacement, abaisse- ment, are all terms used to denote the most ancient form of cataract operation—so ancient, indeed, that the tracing of its origin is lost in the remotest antiquity. It may be mentioned that Willburg, of Nuremberg, had in the year 1785 advised a form of reclination and depression, which was to turn the lens straight over backward, the hinge being directly below so that it rested, anterior surface up- ward, on the lowest segment of the ciliary body. There were two methods of making the ancient operation—one by introducing a thorn or other needle-like instrument through the center of the lower segment of the cornea (keratonyxis) obliquely upward through the pupil into the middle of the upper segment of the crystalline, elevating the handle, with the cornea for a fulcrum, and thus forcing the cataract directly down, without turning it, between vitreous and ciliary body. The other accomplished the same result, but the instrument was thrust into the lens through the sclera (scleronyxis) near the horizontal meridian, six or eight millimeters back of the sclero-corneal junction. Wilburg punctured the sclera in the horizontal meridian, and four or five millimeters from the limbus, with a flat needle which he guided between the iris and capsule, preferring rather to hug or even to tear the latter, in order to avoid the iris. He then applied the flat of the needle to the front of the lens, above its middle, and tipped it over backward. Depression, discission, and suction remained the only surgical measures ever undertaken for the relief of blindness from opacity of the crystall ne until Daviel hit upon a better. Yet, strange to relate, after more than fifty years, the progress of the operation for extraction had been so slight that in the last years of the 18th and the early years of the 19th century this primitive method of depres- sion had staunch defenders among the most renowned ophthalmic surgeons—Richter, de Wenzel, and Beer. During the first decade (1803) of the last century, Scarpa gave a