OPERATIONS UPON THE GLOBE. 43° location of the coloboma becomes, not a matter of choice, but of necessity. If one be obliged, by the exigencies present, to make the iridectomy in an unfavorable position, other artificial means may often be evoked for heightening the visual results. If, for example, it be extremely peripheral, cylindrical lenses can, in many cases, be fitted with benefit. If diffusion is caused by the light that passes through thin opacities in the immediate vicinity of the clear spot selected, the image can be sharpened by tattooage (see page 397). The same may be done to advantage in the event of too large a coloboma, by way of "stopping down," as it were. Now and then it happens that one is confronted with a patient whose only hope of obtaining a modicum of sight is through the making of an opening in the iris beneath a tiny area of cornea situated at the extreme periphery. If the incision encroaches upon this area, the ensuing scar will cloud the new pupil. One has, then, the choice between entering the angle of the iris through a long wound-canal by way of the adjacent sclera, or of making a com- bination of irido-dialysis and iridectomy, as resorted to by Panas. This surgeon would make the corneal incision on the side opposite reach across the pupil with the forceps, seize the iris beneath the spot of clear cornea, tear it from the periphery, withdraw, and excise. Both methods are difficult. A drawback to the artificial pupil is its fixidity, no withstanding the varying intensities of illumination. It was to obviate this that Adams, in 1812, and Himly, in 1843, proposed displacing the natural pupil in the desired direction by drawing the iris into the corneal wound and there leaving it to be incarcerated—iridencleisis. It was to the same end that Critchett, in 1857, devised his operation of ligature of the iris—iridesis, or iridodesis. This consisted in making a small incision with a broad needle or lance-knife as near as possible to the base of the cornea, withdrawing with cannula- forceps the nearest portion of the sphincter, throwing a delicate silk ligature around the part brought out, leaving it thus for two days in order that the iris might become firmly adherent in the wound, then cutting off the extrusion or allowing it to slough. These measures proved excellent in so far as their optic effects were con- cerned, seeing that they gave a narrow, movable pupil, but disastrous as regarded their physical consequences—among the last having