THE REMOVAL OF TUMORS OF THE ORBIT. 609 it can be accomplished, the tarso-orbital fascia should be closed with absorbable sutures. The skin or the conjunctival wound is sutured with silk. Exostoses of the orbit are rarely fit objects of surgical inter- ference, notwithstanding the fact that the affection is not uncommon. In the great majority of instances operation is contraindicated either because of the exceeding slow growth and harmlessness of the tumor or because of the clanger that would likely attend efforts at its removal. Their favorite points of origin are the roof and the inner wall of the orbit—just the places that the surgeon must hold in greatest respect. The next most frequent site is the upper inner angle, where the exostosis usually springs from the frontal sinus. Their recognition is, as a rule, not difficult; the sense of touch alone being sufficient with which to make the diagnosis, on account of their stony, fixed, lobulated feel. Radiography may be valuable for their diagnosis, as well as to get an idea of form and size. With regard to their manner of attachment to the orbit, they vary from the broadly sessile through all grades of the pedunculated, to those exceptional ones that are held merely by fibrous tissue and are movable. If it can be demonstrated that one has to do with an exostosis that is movable or has a narrow pedicle, and it is giving inconvenience or threatens any serious trouble, it is removable from almost any part of the orbit. This is the kind that originates in or about the frontal sinus. Not infrequently, however, they extend into the cranium as well, and one must beware of them. Most of those that arise from any part of the bone below the horizontal diameter of the orbit may be attacked with impunity, whether it extends beyond this cavity or not; but always for some good reason other than the bare presence, such as interference with function, deformity, etc. In operating, first lay the tumor bare by making adequate incisions through the overlying tissues, by one of the rules already given. Incise and peel back as much of the thickened periosteum as it is possible to save. When practicable, one of the tiny saws should be used to detach the growth. If not, mallet and grooved chisel or the hand-gouge are chosen. The cutting with the chisel should be close down to the base, the "chip" being taken from the side of the tumor, and the taps of the hammer as light as is consistent 39