DISCISSION. 557 depression needle entered the capsule—which by design or accident often happened—the cataract would disappear by absorption. Hence acupuncture would, as it really did, become the logical treatment for those soft cataracts that were not suitable for depression. Ambrose Pare gave new life to the operation, calling it sclerotico- puncture, for the needle was introduced by way of the sclera until 1797, when Conradi,1 a pupil of Richter, devised the modern route through the cornea, and, under the name keratomyxis, the operation became general. Langenbeck2 was the first to employ a mydriatic— belladonna—in this connection, which greatly facilitated matters. The sphere of the operation is at the present time limited to soft lenses, such as the recent or undegenerated traumatic and all the cortical cataracts of young or relatively young subjects, the trans- parent lenses of high myopia, those congenitally displaced, and, in a somewhat modified form, to secondary or after-cataract. The operation also has a small field of usefulness for congenital zonular or lamellar cataracts in children and young adults. It may be stated, in passing, that the surgical treatment of these cases is not attended with the same degree of satisfaction as that of other varieties. If the zone of opacity is small, not larger than a good- sized pupil, the best operation is optical iridectomy, preferably inward and slightly downward. It is only when the area of the cataractous circle is large that a lens operation is to be considered. Then it becomes a choice between one of the forms of extraction and discission. For my part, I prefer the latter, although it may mean three to five repetitions, the last of which is usually a dilacer- ation of dense membrane. The time of life beyond which discission of cataract, that would appear to be moderately soft, is impracticable has not been definitely decided upon. Certain it is, however, that the age once fixed as the limit has been more than doubled. Knapp^ mentions having made the operation with success in the eyes of persons thirty-seven. The case cited below, in which discission was made for high myopia, is a shining example of its feasibility at thirty-Jive and thirty-six. 1 Arnemann's Magazine, 1797, i, p. 61. 2 C. J. M. Langenbeck, Bibl. f. Chirurgie, 1809. 3 Norris and Oliver's "System," vol. iii, p. 811.