SYMBLEPHARON. 335 of the orbit. In addition, however, he had made use of a plate for the support of the transplant. In this instance the plate is gutta-percha, such as is employed by the dentists under the name of "base-plate." A piece of this is cut to the desired outline, molded to shape after immersion in hot water, and its form definitely fixed by putting it in cold water. The first step of the method is the making of a free canthotomy, in order to obtain room to operate. Only one fornix is restored at a time. The lid is detached almost to the margin of the orbit, and the cavity packed with cotton wet with normal salt solution. A Wolfe graft is rapidly cut from the arm, freed from subcutaneous tissue and dipped in the warm salt water. It is then folded, epithelium inward, and three double- armed sutures passed through at the bottom of the crease, leaving loops, two millimeters long, on the cutaneous surface. The sutures are next put through the periosteum of the orbital rim, from the bottom of the newly formed cul-de-sacs, and out on the cheek. The graft is helped into place while the sutures are all drawn down, and threads are tied over rolls of iodoform gauze. Small interrupted sutures fasten the graft to the conjunctiva of the lid and to that of the ocular stump. Now the plate is inserted and, lastly, the stitches put in to close the canthotomy. The deep sutures are left in for ten to fourteen clays, those in the conjunctiva are removed in one week. The plate is left in situ until all shrinkage ceases in the flap. The writer, having found the gutta-percha plate unsatisfactory, went back to the lead. With it the periosteal sutures are a super- fluous complication. A valuable expedient is that of Wilder, of Chicago, whereby the leaden shell is coated with paraffin. By holding the plate with forceps by its middle, and dipping it several times in liquid paraffin of high melting-point, the surface and edges are made absolutely smooth and non-irritating. Another good suggestion of Wilcler's is that, instead of making a number of small holes in the plate for the passage of the sutures, two large openings are made, one on either side of the center. These serve just as well for the threads, besides affording much-needed facilities for drainage and cleansing. The tip of an eye-dropper can be inserted at one opening and the injected fluid escape at the other. In conjunction with a Thiersch graft suturing to the conjunctiva is unnecessary.