RADIOGRAPHY. 629 flame reflected onto the scale that indicates the oscillations of the needle. The manner of operating the sideroscope is to approach the needle to different parts of the globe and note its deflections; these are greater the nearer and heavier the piece of iron. It is difficult to manage. Knapp, in referring to the Asmus model says: " To handle it requires the patience of a saint." With Hirsch- berg's also, the same precautions must be taken relative to the proximity of iron or of electric currents. Even particles of iron in the hair or beneath the scalp such as iron-workers are apt to have will affect the needle. Roentgen or X-rays furnish the best known means of locating foreign bodies in the vitreous chamber, whether the substance be of iron or of other material opacpie to them. From the time of their discovery by Roentgen, of Wurzburg, until 1896, the refracting media of the eye were thought to be opaque to these rays. The crystalline, in particular, with its index of refraction so nearly the same as that of glass, was considered impervious to them. This was the explanation offered as to their invisibility. In March, 1896, Van Duyse made the first radiograph of a foreign body in the eye, and the delusion was dispelled. X-rays afford so far three methods of application to the local- ization under discussion, viz.: fluoroscopy, radioscopy, and radiog- raphy. The first two depend for their value upon the properties possessed by certain substance of becoming luminous under the influence of the X-rays, such as the platino-cyanid of barium and calcium tungstate. In the fluoroscope, a small screen covered with one of these materials is fitted to a dark-chamber that can be held to the eyes of the examiner. In a darkened room the screen is placed close to the eye to be examined, i.e., against the face or the temple. The Crooks tube is set in operation from a point opposite, and the observer sees a skiagram of the eye and the other tissues through which pass the rays coming to the screen, and he is sup- posed to determine whether, in addition to the normal shadows, there is that of a foreign body. Unless the subject be a child, whose bones are more permeable, or the foreign body be rather large, these methods are unsatisfactory. Radiography.—This gives the most exact and approved means of localization of any yet discovered. It owes its worth to power