OPERATIONS UPON THE ORBIT. 6oo The great majority of the recent and a goodly per cent, of the old will, however, demand interference. Having located the foreign body, it is commonly got at by incision through the skin. As many structures are gone through as is necessary to bring the object within reach, sparing, as much as possible, all those that it would be disastrous to wound. If it is thought best to remove at the site of entrance and there is still an opening, this will need enlarge- ment. The incision or enlargement extends horizontally or, better, parallel with the rim of the orbit, and must be free enough to allow plenty of room to work. For extra large foreign bodies situated close to the roof of the orbit, it is sometimes the considerate thing to shave the eyebrow and make the cut along the mid-line of its hair-follicles, so as to hide the resulting scar. If suppuration is present, the foreign body will, most likely, yield easily to the traction of forceps or to that of a powerful magnet. If not, the cutting may have to be extended down around it before it will come without too much violence. Should the foreign body be of some brittle material, easily broken, like dried wood, or wood and bark, it is advisable, after removing a piece, to look for more. Not long since, the writer extracted in this way three successive sections of a dead twig, the aggregate length being 21/2 inches. The removal having been accomplished, the cavity is cleansed, and, if aseptic, the tarso-orbital fascia is brought together with absorbable sutures, and the skin opening closed with silk; if septic, a drain is put in and only the extremities of these openings are sutured. In the event of the foreign body having pierced the cranium, unless suppuration is in progress or the injury is recent, it had better not be withdrawn. If it only enters a sinus, it should be removed, whatever the con- ditions. When the object is near the apex or in the spheno-palatine fossa and the globe is intact, the safest means of getting at it would be by an osteoplastic operation, after the method of Kronlein. But if the state of the eye is hopeless, as regards both vision and appear- ance, enucleation and then removal of the foreign body would be preferable to the Kronlein.