79 SCISSORS. so great as to be in the way. With the thumb and ring finger inserted as stated, and the middle finger resting upon the outside of the adjacent ring, as is the correct position for holding the scissors, the length of the branches should be such as to permit the tip of the index to fall naturally upon the pivot of the blades. This means, for the average hand, a measurement of about 5 centimeters from the pivot to the junction of branch and ring. Any marked increase of this length tends to cause wabbling, and any material decrease restrains freedom of action through cramping the fingers. The scissors used by the oculist are all so small that whatever latitude is necessary in making the relatively slight differences in strength need not affect the aperture of the rings nor the length of the branches. It is merely a question of the weight of these parts and of the proportions given to the blades. Those that have branches 4 mm. wide by 3 thick, and blades 3 1/2 centimeters long, 8 mm. wide and 1 1/2 mm. thick at the base are strong enough for any of the usual work. The daintiest iris scissors have branches 2 1/2 x 2 mm., and blades 2 1/2 centimeters long, 5 mm. wide, and 1 mm. thick at the base. It follows, therefore, that there are no great differences in size after all. A question that has often occurred to me is: Why do so many pairs of scissors have sharp points.'' The instrument does not advance by puncturing at two contiguous points, then uniting these points by tearing the intermediate tissue! The cutting point is that just where the edges intersect, which constantly moves forward as the blades are closed. The tissue that is being divided is caught in that angle. Therecan be no office for those needledikeextremities excepting to do mischief. They should be abolished. The tips would simply need to be blunted by slightly rounding them. It is even doubtful if there is now any branch of surgery in which incisions are made by first piercing the tissues with one sharp blade, then closing down the other to effect the cut. Formerly this was not an uncommon practice. It is at present confined to the trades. Neither is there any more a place for the elbowed scissors, with one blade probe-pointed, though they are still with us, emeritus, as it were. But enough of generalities. Let us make a few selections. Strabismus Scissors.—Those generally acknowledged to be