[RITO-ECTOMY. 423 no mailer how keen il may be. The membrane will only be pushed along and lorn. Bui a little sawing motion imparted to the blade, however slight, will cause it to cut. In sawing with a sharp knife, it is difficult to prevent harmful wounding or extension at the point where it engages the cornea. To avoid this, I have the edges of the Graefe knives, which are used both for discission and iridotomy, made dull and smooth, for the first two-thirds of the distance and sharp and wiry for the last, or end, third. The operation can be done in this way without any loss of aqueous, which cannot be said of the knife-needle method. This form of knife, particularly if the blade be somewhat smaller in every way than that of the regulation cataract knife, is one of the most manageable of instru- ments. The old and worn-down Graefe knives can be thus utilized. The corneal wound is insignificant and, being in the vascular zone, heals at once. If one is careful to make the iris incision at right angles to the direction of greatest strain of the fibres, and no inflamma- tion of the membrane follows, a permanent round or elliptical pupil will result. Should the iris tissue be such as not to retract, or should the new pupil close from iritis, there is still time to resort to irito-ectomy. Modifications of Irito-ectomy.—Tyrell's blunt hook method. The primary corneal incision is made with a lance-keratome, the blade of which is made to traverse the anterior chamber to a point just beyond the limits of the proposed pupil. Here it is passed through the iris, when, by a sort of rocking motion, the cut is enlarged. The knife is withdrawn, the blunt iris hook is inserted, flatwise, at the corneal wound, pushed across to the iris wound, given a quarter turn so as to catch the hither edge of the cut, the membrane drawn a little way outside of the corneal incision, and a small piece cut off with scissors. This measure is less complex and difficult than the intraocular scissors methods, and done with less dragging upon the iris than is the operation of irito-dialysis. It is the same as the procedure described by Knapp1 as " irido-cystec- tomy." The writer was led to adopt it for many cases of membranous cataract and closure of the pupil after extraction by the splendid results he had seen obtained for the procedure at the hands of the late Cornelius R. Agnew, of New York. 1 Norris and Oliver's System, p. 792.