INSTRUMENTS AND THEIR MANAGEMENT. 6l quality is a peculiar adhesiveness. "Clings to the fingers," as Landolt says. Their rectangular, or rather, octagonal form has, with equal propriety, been retained. The classic form is that of a slightly fusiform, quadrilateral beam with chamfered edges. The heaviest part of the beam is at the junction of the first and middle thirds, where, in cross section, it measures 4.5x6 mm. From here it gradually tapers to either extremity, where the cross sections each represent a rectangle whose sides are 3x4 mm. for the free end and 3,5x4.5 mm. for the other—not allowing, of course, for the chamfer. The regulation length is about 10.5 centimeters. This size and shape are common, or should be so, to knives, including lances, to needles, knife-needles, cystotomes, hooks, curets, wire-loops, spatulas, spoons, spuds, and retractors. There are several reasons for its existence: First, it is handy to hold and to manipulate, adapting itself nicely to the pulps of the fingers. Second as all the working parts are attached with their flats in the same plane as the greater transverse diameter of the handle, one feels, in turning the handle on its long axis, just how much rotation he has imparted to the instrument. This is of the greatest value in such acts as the making of the corneal section, and in the cystotomy of a cataract operation. One can always know the position of the blade or other implement by noting that of the greater width of the handle. The edge of the blade or the point of a hook moves in the sense of the greater width. Moreover, the name of the maker is supposed to be stamped on the side o' the handle that corresponds to the back of the instru- ment, so that, unless it be a blade with double edge, an additional, and often serviceable, sign is given. Landolt suggested that, while none of these instruments should have round handles, the sides should be ecptal (square in cross section) on instruments one of whose offices is to rotate in working, such as cystotomes and needles. It is just as essential to know the position and direction of the blade of a cystotome as that of a knife. It often disappears behind the iris, but one can be absolutely guided by the two lateral dimensions of the handle, in applying the point to the capsule, and in giving those two quarter turns that are such an important part of the cap- sulotomy. The little difference in the two opposite sides does not interfere with rotation. Then, as to the needle, it, too, has its blade—a double-edged one. It is the proper thing to withdraw