OPERATIONS UPON THE EXTRINSIC MUSCLES. i66 practically abandoned the last, and as to cocain, limit both strength and quantity to the minimum that will produce anesthesia, and attempt to make the operation under the primary effect: one minim of a 2% to 4% solution dropped onto the site of the tenotomy twice, or, at most, three times, with two-minute intervals; then a wait of five minutes after the last drop before beginning the operation, is the rule. Subconjunctival injections of these solutions I never resort to, not so much because of the danger, which is slight, but because of the inconvenience occasioned by the ensuing infiltration. Another source of hemorrhage is indiscriminate cutting about with the scissors beneath the conjunctiva and Tenon's capsule. All such dissection is absolutely uncalled for, and pernicious, save in cases where one encounters cicatricial tissue, as from a former operation. It were also easy, by thus snipping, to wound the deeper layers of the orbital fascia, exposing the fat and risking what is perhaps the gravest accident that ever occurs after tenotomy of a rectus, viz., septic orbital cellulitis. Perforation of the sclera in severing the tendon has often occurred, and is a casualty as inexcusable on the part of the operator as it is serious for the operated, yet nothing but the greatest watchful- ness will prevent its happening to even the most skilled and expe- rienced surgeon. To avoid it one should never use pointed scissors, never pull up the tendon strongly and cut obliquely from behind its insertion close down to the sclera, and never cut too much under cover of overlying membranes. Whenever possible the bite of the scissors should be squarely at a right angle to the long axis of the muscle. Tenotomy of the wrong muscle or upon the wrong eye is to be guarded against. To tenotomize the corresponding muscle of the eye not intended were less harmful than pardonable, seeing that squint is usually the result of a binocular defect. Should the opposite muscle of either eye be cut, however, it should be at once picked up and reattached to the globe by one of the various suture methods employed for advancement, though the cut end of the muscle should, of course, be drawn up only far enough to meet the stump from which it had been severed. Of the consecutive accidents, by far the most common come mainly from a too complete section of the tendon. They are: