IMMEDIATE ACCIDENTS, ETC. the cystotome, we sometimes become aware of a bubble of air in the anterior chamber. This comes from lifting the corneal flap, while introducing the instrument, and causing a vacuum beneath. The same accident may occur through inserting the forceps for iridec- tomy. It may be prevented by gliding the aforesaid instruments in more deftly. Remedy.—A few, gentle, upward strokes of the back of the spoon upon the cornea will usually drive it out. Though if some of it be left behind it is not supposed to be harmful, as it is soon absorbed. However, in an otherwise perfectly normal extraction performed by the author, in which this accident occurred, the operation was followed by panophthalmitis, although the air was immediately removed in the manner just described. Therefore it appears safer to irrigate the anterior chamber after such an accident, in order to thoroughly wash out any infection introduced by this bacteria-laden bubble of air. 13. Accident.—Failure to make capsulotomy comes of either a dull-pointed cystotome or of so depressing the handle that the con- vexity of the lens prevents contact of the point with the capsule. Or the capsule may be too tough, in which case, particularly, if the zonule is weak and the vitreous is fluid, the cataract, capsule, and all will simply be depressed beneath the instrument or move with it in attempting to make the cut, no matter how sharp the cystotome. Through too much grinding the cystotome often loses it proper form or model and becomes an insignificant remnant—an anomaly —and then it should be discarded. The surgeon should be as exacting as to shape and keenness in the cystotome as in the knife. Too much caution in making the capsulotomy cannot be exercised. Actual pression is inexcusable. There is no step of this very delicate operation of extraction that so strongly exacts a fine sense of touch. If one does not sense nicely the force of the scratch, die zonule is torn and the ciliary processes are lacerated. By watching closely, one may in most cases be assured of a complete incision in the capsule by seeing the cataract suddenly rise. Yet, as this is not always apparent, he may be unaware of his failure until, in attempt- ing to express the lens, that body refuses to respond to the wonted pressure.