78 INSTRUMENTS AND THEIR MANAGEMENT. So much for the instruments of uniform handles; now for those with uniform rings and branches, or the Scissors (Plate III).—In commenting upon incongruous types of scissors that one often sees in the oculist's kit, Landolt says, " When- ever we are confronted, among ophthalmic instruments, with the reminiscences of the grosser surgery from which ours sprang, it is most often in case of the scissors." What was true at the time this was written is true to-day. Not only are many of the scissors destined for eye surgery conspicuously coarse and big, but many of them— yes, the majority—are lacking in the quality of their steel, and faulty as to the articulation of the blades. As with the scalpels, it is mainly the terminal portion of the blades that is concerned while they are in use. But, if the coaptation of the blades is not perfect, it is just this part that suffers most. A defect that occurs with exasperating frequency is the failure of the edges to overlap, or pass each other, at the end of the blades, or "forking." This comes of the greater wear in this location and of the sharpener failing to adjust matters as he should. The instrument will have a longer life, without undue shortening of its blades if these over- lap very decidedly when new. Landolt thinks that the automatic fastening is, in a measure, responsible for the inferior cutting qualities of some scissors. Arguing that, because of one's ina- bility to tighten the fastening when the scissors get loose, as can be done with those that are joined by a screw, the only recourse is to cramp the blades by pushing forward the thumb ring and pulling back that of the finger. This may be true, but I have been unable to detect any difference in the working of the two kinds. The advantages are largely on the side of the automatic when it comes to a question of keeping them free from rust and filth—that much is certain. With regard to the rings—these are supposed to accomodate, one the thumb, and the other, the third finger up to the first joint. They will then be large enough for any but digits of extra volume. The problem is solved by letting the regulation pattern conform to this principle and compelling the acromegalian to have his scissors made to order. With respect to the branches, there is no good reason why they, too, should not be standardized as to length, seeing that the variations in the dimensions of the blades are not