ORGANIC OR CICATRICIAL ENTROPION. 255 knotted over cotton or gauze. One or more were employed as the case demanded. The excision of a strip of the extreme border fibres of the lower section of the orbicularis, through an incision close to the cilia, is effective and proper for the relief of recent spastic entropion and is sometimes successful after the simple sutures have failed. The simple excision of a section of skin in the form of ellipses, triangles, etc., of greater or lesser extent, after the fashion of the ancients, is still practised, to a limited extent, for functional entropion as well as for the cicatricial variety. The opening is either closed by suturing or is left raw to heal by granula- tion (Desmarres). Another primitive cure is linear cauterization of the skin along the border. Both these measures are irrational and fogyish. The mere fact that they do away with the entropion in most in- stances does not render them free from censure, and they may be easily pushed to such an extreme as to cause the substitution of one blemish for another, such as lagophthalmos, unseemly scars and ectropion. It is doubtful if sheer redundance of skin is ever the true cause of entropion, but it is certain that the removal of it will pull the lid away from the eye—so might many an odd contrivance. ORGANIC OR CICATRICIAL ENTROPION. UPPER LID. This form, unlike the functional, consists not so much in the malposition as in the malformation of the lid, the chief factors in which are the warping of the tarsus, through the transformation of this body into cicatricial tissue, and the atrophy and consequent shrinkage of the conjunctival sac. The causes are diseases such as chronic inflammations and ul- cerations, beginning in the conjunctiva, the results of infection, burns, and other injuries. The greatest of all agents, both as to its capability and its frequency, in the production of cicatricial entropion is chronic granular conjunctivitis, or trachoma. The countries bordering on the Mediterranean Sea have from the times of their earliest history been peculiarly subject to this affliction, hence,