579 HISTORICAL. a Frenchman, the immortal Jean Jacques Daviel—toward the end of the year 1747. It was while making unsuccessful efforts to couch a cataract that it occurred to him to open the lower portion of the cornea and remove the obdurate crystalline, which he immediately proceeded to do, and with most gratifying results. The eye recovered promptly and retained good vision. Like a number of his predeces- sors, Daviel had already extracted fragments of cataracts that had wandered into the anterior chamber after depression,1 and his experience in this line, added to the success of the extraction just related, incited him to further attempts in the same direction, and from that time he began the systematic extraction of cataracts. He was aware of the shortcomings of the older operation and he pinned his faith to the possibilities of the new one. In 1750, he was called to Mannheim to operate on a member of the royal family, and while there made three extractions, the details of which he narrated in a letter to a friend in Paris, which constitutes the first description of his methods. By the time he contributed his notable memoir on the subject to the Paris Royal Academy of Surgery (Nov., 1752), he had made 206 extractions, with satisfactory results in 182 instances. Daviel's Manner of Operating and the Instruments he Used. ^Patient and operator sat in chairs facing each other. He began his corneal incision near the lower limbus by inserting there a small lance-shaped knife, or broad two-edged needle, with curved shank. The small cut thus made he extended in either direction by means of a similar but smaller and blunt-pointed instrument. If obliteration of the anterior chamber and flabbiness of the cornea interfered with this mode of extension, he substituted small scissors. Of these there were two pairs, one curved on the flat and to the right, with the right blade blunted, and the other curved on the Hat and to the left, with the left blade blunted—for the corresponding sides. With these he carried the incision around parallel with the limbus in each direction to a point a little above the pupil, which means that it included quite a little more than one-half of the cornea (Fig. 248). He afterward limited the extent to one-half the circum- ference (see cut). He lifted this large flap with a gold or silver 'Daviel's first case of this kind was in the year 174 5, and the subject was the hermet of Aiguille, in Province. The eye was lost by suppuration.