242 OPERATIONS FOR PTOSIS. is to first dig the point of the needle in somewhat, in order to lift the tissue, then grasp it, in the horizontal sense, with the jaws of the forceps. The threads are so spaced that the loop left lying inside the lower flap is about six to eight millimeters long, and its middle marks the junction of the middle and end thirds of the tarsus. At first I put the needle through the lower flap of skin and muscle from the cutaneous surface, but soon found that this tended to fold the flap horizontally, and to turn its edge outward. The manner of tying the sutures is important. One pair of thread ends is held between the left thumb and index, while, by means of small, mouse-tooth forceps, the edge of the lower flap is seized between the corresponding threads, pulled up and rolled backward, and placed in apposition with the tarso-orbital fascia just where the thread enters the fold therein. The two ends of thread are, meanwhile, drawn up pretty well, but not tightly, and tied in a single surgical knot over a short cylinder of firmly rolled gauze or absorbent cotton. The same is done relative to the flap and other suture. Before finishing the knots, it is seen to that the edges of both skin flaps are directed backward; in other words, not coapted one with the other, but that both are in contact with the broad ligament of the tarsus. In this way the resulting cicatrix is completely hidden by a normally placed and normally appearing sulcus. Lastly, the sutures are tightened as much as is needed for the desired effect, and are tied in bowknots. In the extreme cases it will be impossible for the patient to close the lids so long as the sutures are in. As this is for only two or three days, during which time a carefully applied dressing and bandage is worn, there is no danger to the cornea. Nothing more is expected of the sutures than to hold the operated parts in their new relations until primary union is assured; that is to say, they are not left in position to suppurate or to cut through. The tension of the threads may be altered at any time within twenty-four to thirty-six hours, if one wishes to qualify the primary results, by merely undoing the bowknot and loosening or tightening the other one, as the conditions demand. In removing the sutures, the rolls over which they are tied are pulled smartly up, both threads are cut off close to the skin and withdrawn by seizing the loop below. In this way no soiled portion passes through the tracks.