51 OPERATION OF VENESECTION OR PHLEBOTOMY. junctival and intracapsular injections is due, in all probability, to several causes—partly to osmosis, partly to local antisepsis, and largely to local counter-irritation, and, when dionin is present, also largely to their lymphagogue properties. Intraocular injections are such as are employed in artificial ripening of cataract—into the lens substance—and, in detachment of the retina—into the vitreous or beneath the retina. They cannot be called true and tried measures and have no real place here. Blood-letting. -This venerable therapeutic measure seems now to hold a higher place in ophthalmology than in any other department of medicine. This is true, at least, of local or topic blood-letting. General blood letting, or venesection, is now often resorted to in the treatment of the eye, and it is regaining some of its ancient prestige at the hands of the internists. It is especially valuable for lowering high blood-pressure before operations for cataract and glaucoma. Other names for the last mentioned are phlebotomy and artenotomy, as indicating whether a vein or an artery is opened. The Operation of Venesection or Phlebotomy. -The patient should be seated in a chair or in bed, rather than recumbent, es- pecially where marked effects are desired, as the more rapidly the blood is abstracted the less will be required to lower the force of the circulation. Standing might induce syncope prematurely, while the prone position might allow too great an abstraction of blood before syncope which is Nature's danger signal, had been produced. Septic phlebitis is the most serious complication to be feared after phlebotomy, and should be guarded against by rigid asepsis. The hands of the operator, the instruments, and the field of opera- tion having been rendered thoroughly aseptic, a bandage or cord is tied about the middle of the upper arm, with moderate hrmness, so as to arrest the venous How without interfering with the arterial. Grasping a stick, or roll of bandage, or merely closing the hand tightly will then cause the veins to become prominent (Fig. 31). The median basilic is now fixed by pressure of the left thumb, and, with a sharp cataract knife or bistoury the vein is opened (not divided) obliquely to its long axis at about its middle point. The middle portion of the vein is chosen as being farthest removed from