1 Klin. Monatsbl. f. Augenh., 1870, S. 26. SNELLEN'S SUBCONJUNCTIVAL TENOTOMY. 16^ tenotomy accomplished by successive snips of the scissors, cutting from the hee] to the point of the hook. As in the Graefe method, stray fibres that have escaped the scissors are sought and divided. If still greater effect is desired a subconjunctival incision is made vertically in Tenon's capsule, a little back of the point where the tendon was cut. Unless there is a tendency of the conjunctival wound to gape, no suture is employed. Snellen's' Subconjunctival Tenotomy.-—The Utrecht master has given an invaluable procedure. The conjunctiva and capsule are picked up by strong mouse-tooth forceps in one horizontal fold, as in the Critchett operation, not over the border of the tendon but over its center, and, if possible, the tendon itself is contained in the bite, which is made a little back of the insertion. The entire fold is lifted and cut athwart by the blunt scissors close to the- forceps, on the corneal side, and the wound peered into to see whether or not the tendon has been nipped. If not, its center is caught up in a longitudinal pleat in which a tiny, perpendicular buttonhole is cut. Still holding up the fold, a small hook is introduced, point up- ward, at this hole, and the upper half of the tendon severed by cutting with the blunt scissors from heel to point of the hook beneath the membranes and between the hook and the insertion. Still holding with the forceps, the hook is placed, point downward, under the lower half of the tendon, and that, in like manner, is divided. After the example of v. Arlt, if greater effect is desired the incision in Tenon's capsule is extended, subconjunctival^, both above and below. The conjunctival wound may, according to the judgment of the operator, be closed by a thread, or its edges simply cleansed and approximated by means of the forceps. Snel- len, in beginning his operation, sometimes grasps the tissues in the opposite sense, i.e., over the center of the tendon, but into a verti- cal fold. George T. Stevens, of New York, has somewhat modified Snel- len's method into a partial tenotomy and has devised a set of deli- cate strabismus instruments (Plates II and III). Whatever may be said concerning the modification, it is certain that the implements leave little to be desired along this line. The present writer adopted the Snellen operation and the Stevens instruments more than fifteen