THE REMOVAL OF FOREIGN BODIES. The indicating apparatus is secured to the side of the head corresponding to the injured eye, and the tube placed about 12 or 15 inches to the opposite side and slightly forward. The patient is in the recumbent posture to insure steadiness of the head. After the indicating rods have been adjusted, the patient fixes an object about 5 to 10 feet distant, so placed that the visual axis of the injured eye shall be parallel to the photographic plate. An exposure of from one to two minutes will clearly outline the bones of the orbit and secure a shadow of any body opaque to the rays in the eyeball or in its neighborhood. Sweet's New Localizer.—At the last meeting of the American Ophthalmological Society, July, 1909, Sweet presented a simplified method of localization. The new form of apparatus exhibited in this connection, while it embodies the same principles as that just described, is so constructed that it relieves the operator of the necessity of making measurements from the radio- graphs or of drawing any lines to represent the planes of shadow. "In the new apparatus the planes of shadow of the foreign body are accu- rately determined by the instrument without the Fig. 282. . , ct r 1 • image of cross- necessity on the part of the operator of taking wire and cornea, measurements from the plates or in drawing lines (Sweet ) • . on the chart. The tube-holder, indicating ball, and plate-holder are upon a movable stage, and therefore preserve a known relation to each other which does not vary. The angle of the rays with the eyeball and the distance of the tube from the plate are always the same, so that one indicator is sufficient, and this consists of a small steel ball supported in a metal ring. The setting of this ball opposite the center of the cornea is made by means of adjusting screws conveniently placed on the frame of the instru- ment. Accuracy in the measurement of the distance of the in- dicating ball from the center of the cornea is secured by means of a telescope and reflecting mirror. The mirror gives an image of a cross-wire and a lateral image of the cornea. Through the telescope the observer adjusts the instrument until the image of the cross- wire is in direct contact with the image of the summit of the cornea. (Fig. 282.) When the adjustment is made, the indicating ball is exactly 10 mm. from the center of the cornea. A miniature incan-