bowman's operation. (ion unless previously injected deep into the canal, and it hardly justifies the use of general anesthesia. Previous dilatation of the punctum is unnecessary and only adds to the patient's discomfort. The operation upon the lower canaliculus, the one usually c hosen, is performed with patient and operator in positions described for passing a lacrimal probe, and the method is much the same. Given the right, lower canaliculus to incise, for instance, the napkin- covered head of the patient is pulled back and pressed against the operator's chest. The contents of the sac are expressed when possible. The knife is held in the right hand. The left thumb is laid heavily on the right cheek or malar bone, for the three-fold purpose of slightly everting the lower lid, stretching it tightly toward the temple, and fixing the patient's head. An assistant holds the patient's hands and he is requested to look upward during the entire operation. The knife is inserted vertically at the punctum, then lowered to the horizontal, with the edge looking upward and back- ward. Having proceeded thus far, it is good practice to pause for an instant, see that the position of the blade is just right, take a firm hold upon the handle, bear hard outward on the lid, to make taught the canaliculus, push the knife straight inward until the point stops against the inner wall of the sac, then, wdiile holding it there, bring up the handle, hugging the brow, through an arc of ninety degrees or more, owing to the length of the cut. The plane of the incision, instead of being vertical, is inclined toward the operator. The extent of the incision must be regulated by the peculiarities of the case or the end to be attained. If this be to admit of the use of somewhat larger probes or canulae than can be readily passed through the normal punctum (a In deWecker) the length of the cut need not exceed three or four millimeters; in other words, an enlarge- ment of the punctum. If a greater opening is desired, the incision may extend to the caruncle. According to v. Arlt, this means about three-fifths of the length of the canaliculus, or it may reach the common duct. In no case, unless for phlegmon of that cavity, is it advisable to extend a free incision into the sac for fear of per- manently disabling the internal canthal ligament. If it is desired to pass the knife through the whole length of the lacrimal canal, as the handle nears the vertical the edge of the blade is turned slightly