377 CORNEAL CAUTERY. CORNEAL CAUTERY. Cauterization in some form or another for the treatment of affections of the eve has so wide a range of employment and, as a surgical measure, its application in most instances is so similar, that opportunity will he here taken, once for all, to say a few words rel- ative to its use in general as well as to that in connection with the cornea. For the rest, it will be treated of under the different headings wherever it finds a place. One distinguishes three kinds of cautery, viz., i. the chemic; 2. the thermic, and 3. the electric. The first includes those sub- stances which, brought in contact with the tissues, cause an eschar by various forms of chemical action, such as nitrate of silver, for example. Their modes of application are described in the chapter on that subject. The other two refer to those where heat alone is the agent which produces the decomposition and are identical in their effect, the only difference being as to the manner in which the heat is generated. The second kind is usually spoken of as the actual cautery, and the third as the galvano-cautery. The thermic cautery has been an adjunct to surgery since the earliest days of medicine, and the instrument to receive and apply the heat has been made of a variety of materials. Its best modern representative is a platinum wire of suitable dimensions and shape of tip, supplied with a handle of wood or other non-conductor of heat. In an emergency one can easily improvise such a cautery from a bit of wire or other small metal implement. The best means of heating it are the flame of a spirit lamp or that of a Bunsen burner. "Cherry-red" is the term used to denote the degree of heat which is most serviceable. The Paquelin appliance is also a handy form of actual cautery. As concerns the electric cautery, since its introduction by Legroux' it has largely supplanted the other two in the hands of the ophthalmic surgeon, partly because of the greater convenience. A small storage battery weighing 6 or 8 pounds will supply an ample current for many operations. Moreover, seeing that the home of the oculist is in the city, he can always have access to the street currents, which he converts to this use either by means of a transformer or of a « Ann. d'oculist. t. 81, p. 181, 1879.