341 PTERYGIUM. Pagenstecher, of Wiesbaden, adopted this method. Arlt's method of ablation, but slightly modified, still constitutes one of the favorite and most effective pterygium operations, when the growth is of moderate size and, as performed by the author, may be described as follows: The eye is cleansed and put under local anesthesia. The lids are held apart by the blepharostat. The entire width of the growth, about at the junction of the neck and body, is caught up by strong mouse-tooth forceps, where an opening is made through beneath it with knife or scissors. If it is loosely attached to the cornea, one may now avail one's self of the admirable method of divuhion invented by Prince, of Springfield, 111. This consists in passing a Prince divulsor or a flat strabismus hook or other similar instru- ment through the opening and forcing it toward the apex with a series of short, prying motions, as a river of staves uses his frow. In this way one often has the satisfaction of seeing the cornea stripped absolutely clean. If the growth is too firmly adherent to yield readily to this maneuver, a keen, narrow bistoury, or small scalpel, is used. It is worked from the limbus of the cornea toward the center, first loosening the lower edge, then the upper, then between the two, always hugging the cornea. It is well before loosening the apex to finish the incisions that out- line the diamond to be excised, as they can then be placed with greater precision. These, made only with small, straight, blunt scissors, extend, divergent, for a short distance from the limbus, governed by the size of the pterygium, then convergent to meet at or near the caruncle or the neighboring canthus (Fig. 197). We may now try to rive off the head or tip by prying. If this fails, the knife is passed entirely beneath and this portion is severed by a light sawing movement. To begin the dissection at the head, except in the event of the pterygium being a cicatricial or an un- usually meaty one, is unsurgical. Finally the excision of the scleral part is finished with the scissors, taking care to avoid the sheath and tendon of the rectus. Any corneal remains of the growth are scraped away with a convex scalpel, or sharp curet, and the episcleral tissue in the immediate vicinity of the limbus is like- wise got rid of. To prevent overlapping the cornea, two vertical incisions are now made in the conjunctiva, one upward and the