168 OPERATIONS UPON THE EXTRINSIC MUSCLES. of the tenotomy, a drop of cocain solution and a snip of the scissors constitute an effectual remedy. In warding off other sequels, such as conjunctivitis, tenonitis, etc., absolute cleanliness of the eye, the instruments—in short of everything concerned—is the best safeguard. Add to this perfect occlusion of the eye and the strictest quietude of the patient after the operation, and about all is done that can be. Often too little attention is paid to the dressing of the eye after this sort of operation. In view of the fact that so many of the subjects are children, one should be all the more exacting in these respects. I find that the use of the wet netting bandage, and flexible collodion to fix it, makes an excellent dressing in every way. (Described in chapter on Dressings.) Extensive adhesions and scar tissue after tenotomy are to be avoided chiefly because by their action in binding the tendon and tension on the check ligaments they restrict the movements of the globe. They are usually the result of un- necessary traumatism at the time of the operation, mostly through futile and aimless poking and gouging with hooks, slashing with scissors, and mangling with forceps. There is no advantage in a subconjunctival tenotomy over one that is made with the tendon in plain view; much to the contrary. In the first place, one's work is more uncertain, being out of sight, and precision is the key-note to success. In the second, it has been proven that there is less apt to be unfavorable reaction after the open method, seeing that bacteria and blood can be much more thoroughly got rid of. As to dosing the effect of a tenotomy; to assert that so much cutting in a given manner means so many degrees of permanent rotation of the globe away from the muscle attacked has always seemed to the writer to be the acme of absurdity. Granting that a tendon can be set back a specific distance, what assurance have we that it will remain in that position ? It is pretty certain that if the borders of the tendon are both left intact and if the tenotomy has been ac- complished with the minimum of traumatism, the ultimate result will be nil. After the complete tenotomy it would seem to be merely a question as to how much, or how little, harm is done. The result is purely problematical. If the tendon has not been too greatly loosened from its sheath, it may creep back to its place again