ANTERIOR S TA P H Y L 0 MA. 389 pressure alone is probably the most efficacious of any single means. The writer had occasion a short time since to cause removal of the lenses in a case of high myopia and conicity of the cornea by a series of discissions. The treatment consisted in incising the capsule through puncture at the bass of the cornea—done with a Graefe knife, the use of atropin, and bandaging. The duration of treatment for each eye was about six months. There were three discissions in each, a good deal of reaction following the second and third. The ultimate flattening of the corneas was truly remarkable. The best vision with glasses before the operations, etc., was 20/70, both eyes; the best after the year's treatment 20/30+ both. Here the annulment of the myopia, which had been 20 and 24 diopters, would account for most of the added sight, but I attributed much of it to the reduction of the cones. Certainly, thorough trial of the less radical measures should precede any operation that involves special risk. These would be, prolonged wearing of compressive bandage (best netting, put on wet), the cotton of the pad being carefully built on, first tilling in the depressions in the lids around the globe, and the dressing renewed daily, when 2 drops of 2% solution of the nitrate or muriate of pilocarpin are instilled. This kept up as long as improvement continues. I f no progress is made, repeated paracentesis of the cornea is subjoined, to which might, as an ulterior measure, be added the application of a small galvanic tip, in three or four short meridional lines, near the base. If these measures failed of material improvement, I should still advise against more drastic surgical treatment save where the ectasia is very great and the vision very poor, so poor, indeed, as hardly to be called useful. True, much depends upon the condition of the fellow eye. If this be possessed of fair sight, one may venture further. Staphyloma of the Cornea. Anterior Staphyloma.—By this term is understood those forms of ectasia of the cornea which de- velop in consecpience of disease, such as ophthalmia neonatorum, accidental wounds, as from the blades of knives and scissors, and surgical operations, such as iridectomy and extraction. The staphyloma is known as total or partial, according as the whole cornea or only a portion of it is involved in the bulging. Blindness is a necessary accomplishment of the total form, not of the partial.