550 EXTRACTION OF CATARACT. operation. The continued pressure quickly tires out the iris, which dilates and allows the lens to emerge very like the process of par- turition. If the expression be attempted rapidly, the capsule will probably burst just as it is coming out. If this accident does happen, it is best to keep up the pressure with the hook, so that the capsule does not retract, and try and gently drag it out with a pair of ordinary dissecting forceps applied to the part outside the wound. The broad hold so secured will often succeed in drawing out the whole of it with its contained lens matter." " When the lens is halfway out ... a clear point of vitreous will occasionally appear in the wound behind the lens. . . . The spoon in the left hand . . . should be pushed beneath the lens through the clear point and the lens suspended on it. Once the lens is supported on the spoon the strabismus hook can be used as before to drive out the lens, the spoon merely coming with the lens, but not drawing it out. ... If we attempt to lift out the lens on the spoon merely, the capsule will give away with exceeding frequency." "In addition to this occasional insertion of the spoon, the iris forceps have sometimes to be introduced to seize ruptured capsule. If the capsule has retracted, we should try by gentle stroking to press out its contained lens matter, . . . and if the capsule be evi- dent to the eye, we may make an attempt to catch it with an iris forceps and fetch it out. Where no accident occurs the only instru- ment introduced into the globe is the knife. Ordinary dissecting forceps are used for seizing ruptured capsule lying in the wound." Iritis followed where the capsule was left behind in about 5 per cent, of the cases, and only 0.34% out of the 2,616 were failures: one due to suppuration; one due to hemorrhage; and in another the eye shrunk after an extensive loss of vitreous. Iritis was, he thought, not due to bruising, but to the retention of lens matter and capsule. In consequence mainly of Smith's reports many ophthalmic surgeons all over the world have been emboldened to make trial of the method. In the United States alone the number of would-be imitators of Major Smith has been a large one. So far as the writer has been able to inform himself, however, practically all have given up the method, deeming it inadmissible save for an occasional selected case. The chief reasons for their disaffection toward it will be found in the following paragraphs.