EXTRACTION OF CATARACT. 526 sleep where, on awaking in the night, they cannot see a light. Be the latter ever so faint, it answers the purpose. Kipp advocates that, where the distance is not inconvenient, the patient be taken home in order that he may recover his faculties. The next best thing is to have a member of his fami y come to him and coax him back to reason; or, if this cannot be done, the soothing must be left to those in attendance. Bromids and chloral are sometimes of avail, though it is often impossible to induce the patient to swallow anything. The well eye, if there be one, and it is occluded, should be uncovered at the first signs of the dis- turbance, and the patient must be watched and guarded without an instant's intermission. Knapp, in De Schweinitz's, " Diseases of the Eye," commends hypodermic injections of hyoscin (hydrobromate), gr. i/ioo pro dosi, to control the mania. Atropin Dermatitis.—The well-known idiosyncrasy whereby the local use of atropin or kindred drugs causes a peculiar, nasty, greasy swelling and inflammation of the skin of the lids, must be watched for and, if shown, another mydriatic, such as duboisin or hyoscin, substituted. Usually this suffices, though rarely each one has the same effect and must all be abandoned. Hyphema, or hemorrhage in the anterior chamber, which is an occasional occurrence, is more often noted after the combined, than after the simple extraction, and was especially frequent after the Graefe modified linear. The predisposing cause is hyperemia of the iris, and the exciting one either a blow or a strain, or it means a threatened iritis. In the latter event, it is an indication for atropin, salicylates, etc. Spastic or senile entropion of the lower lid, induced by band- aging, is a condition much to be apprehended after extraction. Eyes have been lost through want of timely observance of it. If the lower lid shows the slightest tendency to roll in, measures, such as strapping it down to the cheek with collodionized gauze or strips of rubber adhesive plaster or the putting in of an Arlt suture, must be taken at once. Kianopia, kianopsia, blavinopsia, or blue vision, is a very common accompaniment of the early attempts of an eye to see after the extraction from it of a senile cataract—nuclear cataract in particular. Becker thought that it is due to the diffusion of light