IRITO-DIALYSIS. 421 and w ith the same knife. Where a relatively small opening in the iris is desired, an iridectomy knife is entered at the limbus toward which the iris is draw n, and a corneal incision made as if for iridec- tomy, except that the blade is directed backward at such an angle as to make a corresponding cut in the iris close to its periphery. The blunt-pointed forceps-scissors are then put in at one extremity of the wound, one blade passing behind the iris, and a snip is made toward the normal pupil center. The scissors are withdrawn, put in at the other extremity of the corneal wound, and a similar snip made, the two cuts meeting, whereby is completed the excision of a triangle of iris, if a larger iridectomy is wanted, a large, linear, corneal incision, which includes the iris, is made with a Graefe knife near the limbus opposite the point toward which the pupil is drawn, and the triangular piece cut, as just described. Here, how- ever, before making the final snip to complete the section, iris forceps is introduced at the other end of the corneal incision for the double purpose of holding the piece for the cut and removing it from the anterior chamber when severed. In order to facilitate the making of the iris incision when it is made one step with that of the corneal, as soon as the point of the knife is well within the eye it is tilted so as to pry open the cut and evacuate the anterior chamber, which causes the iris to advance close to the cornea. The advantage of such (scissors) operations is that they insure a minimum of traction on the root of the iris and upon the ciliary body, hence it suffers less traumatism and remains more quiet afterward. This is not true of those iridotomies made with needle or knife alone except in instances where the instrument can be made to cut. Usually, after the point of the knife or knife-needle has passed through the iris, all cutting ceases—it is merely tearing. The chief objections to the scissors, or knife and scissors methods, are the too free incisions in the globe, often lying wholly in the clear cornea, entailing undue loss of aqueous and vitreous, thus causing other dangers, and that they are, on the whole, complicated and difficult. Irito-dialysis.—DeWecker considered a measure of last resort in those troublesome cases where, in addition to closure of the pupil, there existed adhesions between cornea and iris, and especially in