ENUCLEATION. 469 follow the course of the operator with the points of widest separa- tion of the lids, now widening the palpebral fissure most exter- nally, now internally; now lifting high the upper lid while easing up on the lower, and vice versa, always guarding the free borders from a snip of the scissors. In the absence of such help, the .Mel- linger blepharostat serves, by reason of the parallel opening of its lid holders, as the best substitute. Detaching the Recti.—It is in respect to this feature that the Aril method departs farthest from that of Bonnet. For the few uncomplicated cases where the relations of the parts are normal, the Vienna mode, without squint hooks, offers to the skilled surgeon an opportunity for exceedingly brilliant work—an excision of the globe in a little more than one minute, and with the use of but two instruments. But for less experienced operators, and for the more difficult cases, such as shrunken or llabbv globes and those charac- terized by inflammatory processes, with adhesions to the surround- ing tissues, no matter how clever the surgeon, it is not to be recom- mended. The tendons cannot be picked up so easily and divided so precisely with the scissors alone as with both hook and scissors, and there is greater liability of wounding the fibrous capsule of the globe which, in view of possible infection of the cellular tissue of the orbit, is by all means to be avoided. The Bonnet method, as modified by Agnew, admits of nearly or quite as rapid an excision in the simpler cases, and both simplifies and hastens matters as regards the complex ones. When the tendons can be readily caught upon the hook, no other fixation of the globe is necessary, but where extensive adhesions exist, one may either leave a bit of tendon attached as a hold for ordinary fixation forceps or, what answers better, have recourse to the tenaculum forceps, the grip of whose talon-like extremities may be varied at will. Dividing the Opticus.—Most writers have taught that, for this purpose, the scissors should be inserted at the nasal side, arguing that this affords the shortest route to the nerve. It would seem, however, that those who favor the external route have decidedly the advantage. The manipulating of instruments at the temporal side in operations upon the globe is always handier than at the nasal side. Then, the diverging outer wall of the orbit makes the opticus more accessible from that side. Moreover, as the larger