OPERATIONS UPON THE GLOBE. 428 only upon this last-named discovery, it were enough, and more, for all time, and the beneficient results thereof were an all-sufficient monument. As may be inferred from perusal of the foregoing historic sketch, where the chief offices of iridectomy are touched upon, the forms and uses of the operation are varied. The principal kinds and their indications may be thus tabulated: KINDS OF IRIDECTOMY AND THEIR INDICATIONS. 1. Preparatory iridectomy, or that which is employed in con- junction with the extraction of cataract. 2. Optic iridectomy, or the making of an artificial pupil for visual purposes. 3. Therapeutic iridectomy, that which is undertaken for the cure or for the prevention of morbid processes in the eye. 1. Preparatory iridectomy is, as has been stated, the oldest form of the operation. It is, moreover, the purest form of iridec- tomy. It is made either immediately preceding the extraction, thus constituting the combined operation, or some weeks or months previously, when it is called preliminary iridectomy. Combined iridectomy was the original kind, having been that of Daviel and of ophthalmic surgeons in general, for more than 100 years following the introduction of the operation of extraction. It was first in- tended merely as an aid to the delivery of the cataract, as in cases of rigidity of the pupil, luxation of the lens, etc. Later, the pro- cedure was resorted to in order to prevent iris entanglements (Schifferli, 1776), and, still later, with the view of warding off iritis and suppuration of the wound (Graefe, 1850). The late Prof. Mooren, of Berlin, in 1862, was the author of preliminary iridectomy, which he practised with the idea of lessening the dangers of sup- puration after operations for cataract. The chief objects of pre- paratory iridectomy, as practised to-day, are to facilitate extraction— particularly as regards removal of cortical remains and to forestall iris complications as sequela? of extraction. Some eye surgeons make preparatory iridectomy only as occasion demands, as in com- plicated cataract, the others never omit it. In this connection the operation is treated of under " Extraction of Cataract."