S7i ARTIFICIAL RIPENING. and surgeon have been victims. Especially is this true of certain incipient nuclear cataracts, with which is associated a high degree of amblyopia, yet hardly any visible opacity, even of the lens center, and the cortical portion is perfectly transparent. Owing to the considerable difference between the index of refraction of these two portions, the vision may be reduced to the counting of fingers at a distance of two feet—barely sufficient, under favorable conditions, to go about with, yet by looking in with the ophthalmoscope, a fairly bright reflex may be got through the center of the pupil with- out, however, any details of the fundus. But with the pupil widely dilated and looking through the periphery, the optic nerve and the vessels of the retina can be defined with tolerable clearness. In other words, it is not so much the transmission of light that is inter- fered with, as that the retinal image is spoiled by diffraction. This state of the lens may persist with little or no change for an indefinite period. Then there are the irregular forms of cortical cataract that are often equally tedious and troublesome. The methods employed or devised to hasten the ripening of these immature cataracts may be divided into four groups: I. Discission of anterior or posterior capsule or of both anterior and posterior capsule of the lens. II. Massage, either indirect through the cornea (the anterior chamber having been evacuated), or direct immediately upon the lens. III. Intracapsular injection of aqueous humor, normal salt solution, or other liquid. IV. The External Application of Heat to the Eye. I. As early as 1811, Gibson, of London, tried discission a few days previous to the linear extraction as a means of hastening the maturity of cataracts of this kind. This he did for the dual purpose of causing rapid opacifying of the outer cortex and, through the entrance of the aqueous humor, the loosening of the lens substance from its capsule. Muter, in 1815, resorted to similar practice. On account of the subsequent swelling of the lens and the generally unsatisfactory extraction which followed, the procedure was not popularized; although forty years later, in 1858, Moren, of Heidel- berg, again proposed this method for the artificial ripening of cataracts.