EXTRACTION OF CATARACT. 52° ing, etc., start the mournful train of symptoms that so often prove the bane of the operator and the undoing of the eye. The treatment that is best for these same affections in general is also best for these. Locally, atropin, hot applications, leeches to the temple, subconjunctival injections of salt or mercurial solution, etc. Internally, calomel, salicylates, pilocarpin hypo- dermics, etc., and attention to any predisposing dyscrasy. If there is any amount of lens matter in the eye, it should be seen to that the pupil does not contract, if it is in the power of atropin or any other mydriatic to prevent it. A considerable quantity of fluffy or flocculent lens remains is well tolerated by the eye and is not to be feared. Infection—suppuration—"puss-wound" of the Germans— may be either endogenous or exogenous, and the exogenous infection may primarily involve either the corneal incision or the anterior chamber or both. Under prevailing methods and with favorable surroundings, this dreadful contingency is infrequent. A surgeon may now make two or three hundred consecutive extractions without once encountering it. Yet, again, it may be his fate to have it occur in several cases in quick succession. With properly prepared patient and paraphernalia and with a normal tear canal and con- junctiva, the source of the infection is always a mystery, and we may thank our stars that we are so often spared the unforeseen evil. Anatomical and bacteriological examination have shown that grave forms of endogenous infection may be due to capillary microbian embolism of the vessels of the retina and choroid and that these may contain the same bacteria that have produced a general infec- tion. Surgical interference seems, under these circumstances, to render susceptible to infection eyes that otherwise would be immune. Owing to the nature of the poisoning agent, or to the treatment instituted, or, it may be, to the qualities existing in the eye or the system, the suppuration will be of every grade from that which will terminate with slight sloughing of the lips of the wound, leaving merely a broad cicatrix, on through a middle grade, affecting all the structures anterior to the ciliary body, to that so overwhelming in its virulence as to practically destroy the eye in a single night. It seems that vitreous humor in the wound is, of all things, the most inviting to pygenic bacteria.