PROBES. 127 the illustration marked "original sound" was made from the temple wire of an old pair of spectacles, and it was this which, used in an emergency, was the forerunner of this series of sounds. The shield was put on to make it conform to the others, and it is still of great use. Its original spherical extremity was made oblong or olive, thus reducing its lateral diameter. To pass the probe or sound through the lower canaliculus, the punctum having been dilated or the canaliculus slit, as the case may be, the position of patient, that of the operator and the holding of the lid are the same as for dilating the punctum. The instru- ment, previously greased with vaselin, is put into the punctum vertically, then instantly depressed to the horizontal and pushed along the canaliculus until the end is solidly against the lacrimal bone. Here it is held snugly while the probe is again approached to the vertical, hugging closely the brow, and pushed down into the nasal or bony portion of the canal. It is well to remember that the direction of this portion of the canal is downward and inward, so that while hugging the inner wall of the lacrimal sac or bone with the end of the probe, throughout the elevation of the shaft, the in- strument should all the while be pushed down and in. Moreover, the elevation must be stopped short of the perpendicular, else the tip may tend to puncture the tissues outside of the lacrimal fossa of the nasal duct (Fig. 52). It was formerly taught that the bony canals inclined the probes in the opposite direction, and the study of the openings as found in the average skull is in favor of this theory. Actual demonstrations on the living subject prove the contrary, notwithstanding, and there can be no question that the passing of the probe into the nasal duct is facilitated by holding to this view. Whereas he who adheres to the opposite belief and inclines his probe to, or beyond, the median line, on elevating it will find greater difficulty and will be more apt to poke the in- strument down into the orbit or somewhere external to the lacrimal fossa. Where there has been inflammation of the canal, there is most apt to be an abnormal constriction just where the canaliculi meet. This may be so tight and solid as to cause the belief that the probe has reached the inner wall of the sac and is ready to descend, which would result in a "false passage." Therefore, when the horizontal