ECTROPION. 288 selected for the relief of the ectropion. Now and then one meets with an eversion of the lid from a scar so slight that the mere subcutaneous division of a restraining band or the excision of the entire cicatricial mass, followed by the mobilization and righting of the tarsus and closure of the opening, with perhaps consequent massage and stretching of the affected skin, will lead to perfect cure. As a rule, however, the indispensable element in the surgical management of cicatricial ectropion as well as in blepharoplasty, in general, is the replacing of lost substance, which refers mainly to the skin. There are four ways of obtaining the borrowed integument and of bringing it to its new situation to fill the defect: 1. By fashioning and mobilizing flaps of the adjoining skin and putting them in place by simple sliding or interchanging. Autoplasty by the French method. 2. By cutting pedunculated flaps from the nearby skin, not necessarily adjacent to the defect, and moving them into position by turning or twisting of their pedicles. Autoplasty by the Indian method. 3. By entirely detaching pieces of skin of various dimensions from a distant locality and transplanting them in or about the lid. Autoplasty (or heteroplasty) by cutaneous grafts. 4. By transporting a pedunculated flap, formed from a remote part of the patient's body or from the body of another individual. Autoplasty (or heteroplasty) by the Italian method. The first two refer, of necessity, to autoplasty pure and simple, and to that only. That is, the integument is taken from the same individual, and from the immediate vicinity, or from one but slightly removed. The third mode, while usually autoplastic, is occasionally heteroplastic, in that the material is taken from another person, or it has, in rare instances, been zooplastic—got from skin belonging to one of the lower animals. The fourth, although not of necessity autoplastic, has, as far as it concerns blepharoplasty, never been anything else. It were vain to attempt an enumeration of the various operative schemes of more or less merit that have been devised for cicatricial ectropion, much less to think of describing them. Let it suffice, therefore, to detail a few representative procedures, under the