ECTROPION. 3o8 before fixing the flap in place, the edges of the secondary defect should be approximated, lest the stretching of the skin around the primary defect, consequent upon the latter procedure, should call for a different disposition of the flap. To the writer this seems both inexpedient and inconsistent, for the reason that it is virtually making a nice and propitious arrangement of the flap—really the essential part of the operation—secondary to the closure of the gap from which it was taken. Believing, therefore, that it is more conducive to favorable results, I try to get the flap into position with the least possible delay and to leave it undisturbed. To this end, I at once cover it with the thin sheet of cotton wet with warm boric acid solution and leave it thus while attending to the flayed space, where, in bringing the edge of skin together, the undermining and traction are so made as not to affect the operated lid. If absolute union of the edges cannot be brought about without undue stretching, a Thiersch or a Wolfe graft is put in to piece out, either at once or a few days later. The dressing consists in the usual thin sheet of cotton, wet with hot saturated solution of boric acid, made large enough to cover the whole field of operation. A large pad of dry cotton is built upon this, over this is laid a piece of non-absorbent material like gold beaters' skin or oiled silk to prevent dryness, and over all, the regulation wet netting bandage (see chapter on Dressings). It is better to occlude both eyes for the first forty-eight hours, at the end of which period the dressing is first removed. This is done under free irrigation with warm boric acid solution. Any sutures that may have been put in are then removed and the bandage reap- plied. From this time the unoperated eye may be left free. The other should be kept bandaged, with daily changing for purposes of cleanliness and inspection, for about ten days or until a new layer of epithelium has formed on the flap. Too early exposure to the air leads to extra shrinkage and to dry gangrene. Even after the bandage is discontinued, it is well to protect the graft for a time by a film of sterile vaselin. Ectropion from bone lesions of the orbit offers special diffi- culties. Those cases occurring, for example, as a result of fracture of the infero-temporal rim, with infection, the formation of sequestra, caries, etc. It may be that both the outer tables of the bone—the