SIMPLE PERIPHERAL CORNEAL FLAP EXTRACTION. 501 If there be retention, a few catheterizations are sufficient to reestablish the function. The subsequent after-treatment is pretty well laid down in the chapter on Consecutive Accidents and Complications. The First Dressing.—If all goes well, the bandage is left in place for forty-eight hours. This will have given time for normal primary closure or healing of the wound. At the end of this period, 110 matter how favorable the progress, the eye is inspected. The undressing of an eye requires as much care as the dressing. According to the statement wffiich has already been made (see chapter on Consecutive Accidents and Complications), extrusion or entanglement of the iris is not an infrequent occurrence at the first dressing, and the explanation is as follows: When one raises the upper lid to open an eye that has been bandaged and the light strikes in, if great caution is not exercised, there is a sudden spasm both of the superior rectus and of the orbicularis, the wound is opened, there is a rush of aqueous, the iris is washed out, and when the cut is examined, a prolapse is found. This fact furnishes an argument, therefore, for letting the eye alone if all seems to be going well until time enough has elapsed to insure permanent closure of the incision. This, on the other hand, may be effectively answered by the counter proposition that the mere fact that the patient is uncomplaining, is not conclusive evidence that all is going well. While house surgeon at the Man- hattan Eye and Ear Hospital, which was in the days when it was the custom of most operators not to remove the first dressing for six or seven days, I saw complete breaking down of the cornea of a stolid male cataract patient from infection. The poor fellow had been as contented as could be ever since the operation, and although he had been repeatedly asked how the eye felt, his replies were uniformly favorable. Preventives.—The strongest argument, therefore, would be that we should use the utmost prudence in the handling of these cases, as to the nursing, the dressing, and the examining of them. The patient is made ready for the dressing by a few assurances that the eye is only to be looked at, "no hurting, etc.," and by instruction not to open the eyes until told to do so, never to squeeze, etc. As to the kind of light employed, it may be either soft, diffuse daylight