139 SEALING OF THE PUNCTA. the subsidiary passage of the knife through the nasal duct, as al- ready described. This is followed by expression of the pus byway of canaliculus or nose. Agnew, of New York, preferred the canal- iculus or conjunctival incision to the external or cutaneous one, even to get at the sac, for its obliteration. Others, as A. Tersen1 for example, for curettage of the sac, first slit the upper canaliculus and then made use of his slender, curved, fenestrated curet (Fig. 56). Many and valid objections to this sort of treatment at once present themselves. Fig. 56. The immediate after-treatment consists in frequent bathing with hot water. The water is previously boiled and is applied as hot as can be tolerated by the skin by means of pieces of gauze or wads of absorbent cotton. The patient sits erect and holds beneath his chin a bowl, containing the water, which he dabs on continuously for only a few minutes at a time. There can be no objection to making the liquid into a mild antiseptic solution. After twenty- four to thirty-six hours, daily or twice-daily syringing is begun. For this the Tansley blind-ended canula and a twenty-five to fifty per cent, solution of argyrol are most commendable. Sealing of the puncta, by touching them with the electric cautery, in cases characterized by discharge from the lacrimal canal as a preliminary to such operations as extraction and iridec- tomy is sometimes done. After the danger of infection has passed, if the openings are not re-established by sloughing out of the eschar, dilatations with the stylet of Landolt may be instituted. Haab once advised, for the above purpose, inserting a slender electrode into the canaliculi for a distance of five or six millimeters and searing the mucous membrane. Rather a drastic step unless attended with extirpation of the sac, in which event it would serve to make the operation complete. Ligation of both canaliculi, first proposed by Quackenboss and later by Buller,2 of Montreal, or of the common duct, as practised 1 Bull, et Mem. Soc. franc, d'opht., 1893. - Montreal Med. Jour., Mar., 1902.