621 IN THE VITREOUS. upon receiving the injury, his pupil had not been dilated, neither had he lain down. The glass had evidently stuck lightly to the front surface of the lens for a short while, then worked its way down into the posterior chamber. In the Lens.—The crystalline is wonderfully tolerant of foreign bodies. So much so that it will sometimes retain perfect trans- parency for months, or even years, with one imbedded deeply in its substance. Even fragments of copper have nothing like the dele- terious effect on it that they have in other parts of the eye. Often the worst that ensues is a cataract, and this may be only partial. No one would, of course, think of making discission of such a cataract and thus risking to turn the foreign body loose in the eye. To extract it would be justifiable, but only under certain conditions, among which would be a defective fellow eye, signs of irritation from the foreign body, or the fact of the patient living in a remote district, etc. These remarks refer only to the cases of known foreign bodies in the lens. Given a transparent lens with foreign body visible therein and a perfectly quiet eye, certainly no interven- tion would be warranted, save, perhaps, in the event of the substance being iron or steel. The great surety and safety with which the magnet and a skillful operation could deal with the situation might— probably would—overbalance the risk of leaving it there. In the Vitreous.—The surgery of this subject is of recent date. This is one of the few fields that surgeons in ancient, and olden times in general, fought shy of. The first authentic record of the removal of a foreign body that had been wholly within the vitreous chamber was that by Albrecht von Graefe, about 65 years ago. Then followed similar operations by Edouard Jaeger, of Vienna; Critchett, of London, and by Desmarres, of Paris. The extraction was with forceps, through the wound of entrance or through a scleral incision. It is an etablished fact that at least 60 to 65% of the foreign bodies that are driven into the depths of the eyeball come to rest in the vitreous chamber. Experience has proved that 65 to 70% of the vitreous foreign bodies are magnetic, i.e., of iron or steel. Not to exceed one-third, then, are left to be treated by surgical measures other than magnet operations. The latter will be referred to further on.