498 EXTRACTION OF CATARACT. the cataract, nor rub it about in an aimless sort of way to get out the cortex. Be sure that the back and not the edge of the instrument is applied. Don't stop to pick up the extracted lens unless it is caught deftly upon the upper spoon—merely brush it aside until the operation is terminated. Don't have the instruments dripping wet, as the liquid, streaming downward, carries bacteria from the fingers to the eye. Don't hold instruments in the mouth to disembarrass the hands. Give them to an assistant or lay them down. Don't talk any more than necessary, and never with explosive aspiration, to emit showers of germs, even though mouth and nose be covered by a mask. It is the better part of wisdom to close and bandage the eye as soon as practicable after the extraction of the cataract, and to discourage all unnecessary movement or turning of it. With this in view, little exhibitions like having the patient count the operator's fingers or to tell the time on a watch, through a convex lens, it is deemed prudent to omit. Such things were formerly supposed to be a test as to whether any portions of the cataract were left behind, but as such the performance is a delusion. The Toilet of the Eye.—Having seen to it that no part of the iris is caught in the wound nor in any manner disarranged, and that the lips of the cut are nicely in apposition, gently sponge away all the loose debris, cortical matter, etc., carefully remove any shreads of fibrinated blood from about the incision with the toilet forceps, and arrange the conjunctival flap. Flow a dropperful or two of warm boric acid solution over the eye and close the lids. Instead of ordering the patient to do this last, the operator will often do well to perform the act himself, usually by taking hold of the lashes, lifting the lid slightly and shutting it. Docile patients, however, may be trusted to do it unaided, but must be warned against forcible closure. Dressing of the Eye.—A lamina of absorbent cotton, almost as thin as a veil and about two inches square, is made sopping wet with warm boric-acid solution and laid on the lids rather high up (see chapter on "Dressings"), then pulled down into place. In this manner the lashes are smoothed out—not crumpled up in the dressing. Although this may seem a trivial item, it is really an