EXTIRPATION OF THE ORBITAL LACRIMAL GLAND. 157 periosteum is reached, then pulled downward and held open by some form of retractor. A quite fitting instrument for the purpose is the lid speculum of Landolt (Plate VIII). The tarso-orbital fascia, or septum orbitale, is next incised opposite the front border of the gland, and from three to four millimeters beneath the edge of the orbital rim, taking care to keep the inner end of the incision as far as practicable toward the temple, in order to keep out of the way of the levator and its nerve. The gland is laid bare, loosened with curved, dull-pointed scissors, working now closed and held pen-fashion for blunt dissection, again cutting the stronger fasten- ings of the gland—first below, then above—the latter being all the while slowly and steadily drawn forward, until it comes away entire. At this stage, the lacrimal artery is tied, hemostatic forceps applied to other bleeding vessels, and every means resorted to for the prevention of deep hemorrhage. (See Gifford,1" Extirpation of the lacrimal gland, causing atrophy of the optic nerve, through hemorrhage into the orbit.") Great care must be exercised to pre- vent injury to any of the external eye muscles or to their nerve supply. The cavity is washed out with sublimate solution and the opening in the tarso-orbital fascia is closed with fine gut sutures. The lips of the outer wound are put into the nicest possible apposition and held together by a few carefully placed, interrupted sutures of paraf- fined silk. The usual monocular bandage is applied, excepting that the pad of dry cotton is larger and extends up higher on the forehead. The patient is put to bed and kept quiet and the eye regularly inspected. The silk thread is removed as soon as the healing of the wound will permit. If signs of infection appear, the incision must be at once reopened, at least that portion of it involved by the threatening process, cleaned out, and vigorously treated with strong antiseptics. 1 Am. Jour, of Ophthalmology, Vol. vi, p. 268.