PARA-OPERATIVE TECHNIC. 3° to be allowed to hold the basin, as he feels that he is helping the cause. He is cautioned to keep both eyes gently closed, and not make any effort to open them until told to do so, and that he must never squeeze them. The bandage is cut, and is so stripped off as to leave the pad of cotton covering the eye. This is usually stuck more or less tightly to the lids, so as to require soaking slightly by dropping warm boric acid solution behind it with a dropper to make it let go. After cutting and removing the bandage, and placing the towel over the hair, it were best that the dresser put on a pair of sterilized rubber gloves. I know this is seldom done, but it is the proper thing. The warm solution for use with the cotton sponges is in a glass flask or in an ordinary eight-ounce bottle. From this it is poured upon the sponges, over the catch- basin. It does not comport with true cleanliness to dip the sponges into a vessel of liquid with the fingers, especially if they be not gloved. Always warn the dresses as to what is about to be done. The mere touching of a finger to the forehead or of a sponge to the lids might otherwise cause a tremendous start and a squeeze. He is also told not to put up the hands. What follows here refers mainly to cases where the operation has been upon the globe. The first sponge is made dripping wet. It is oblong, and one end is allowed to project well beyond the tips of the fingers to avoid giving the eye an unguarded poke or thump. This loose end is raked gently back and forth over the eyelashes to soften the dried dis- charges from the eye accumulated along the palpebral fissure. Following this, another sponge, but wrung dry this time, is lightly drawn along to drink up the moisture clinging to the lashes. After the first sponge, all of them, while wet, must yet be in a more or less absorbent condition—that is, they should take from the parts they touch rather than give. Observance of this point prevents driving polluted solution from without into the eye. Several wet sponges are used about the lids, brow, nose, cheek, and temple, always beginning at the center of the area to be washed and ending at the periphery, i.e., never going back to the lids or to the cilia with a bit of cotton that has touched the adjacent surfaces. A sponge is never re-wetted and again applied. By way of a finish, a pledget is squeezed hard, and with it the parts are sponged to free from drops. The lids of the unbandaged eye are also often glued