FORCEPS. of the rings—are less in the way than the short, or dwarf, kinds, as the latter necessitate placing the hand that holds them close to the seat of operation. The jaws, from pivot to end, should not exceed 2.5 centimeters. The working extremity of the jaws should be 2 mm. wide, and slightly rounded. The branches are best if light and elastic. Those with a series of notches for the catch are con- venient, simple, and effective. Needle Forceps.—Those constructed upon the principles em- bodied in the still highly approved instrument devised by Sands, of New York, are the favored of all eye surgeons. The circular jaws of the Sands forceps have mostly been discarded for the more desirable duck-bill jaws, and instead of dee]) grooves for receiving FlG. 41. -Stephenson's needle forceps. the needle, thus limiting the number of positions in which it can lie placed, the surfaces of the jaws are either simply roughened or else they are lined with meta softer than steel, such as copper. It has been urged that, without the grooves, curved needles are more apt to be broken. This is contrary to my observation. Some clever genius—some say Knapp, some De Wecker, some Weiss—thought to turn the free end of the lever toward the handle, whereas, in the Sands model, it is toward the jaws. This arrangement puts the hand that holds the instrument further away, and permits not only greater freedom of movement, but more room for handling the other implements concerned in the operations. The snap catch is to be preferred to the slide, as its manipulation is easier and causes less joggling. It adds to steadiness and leverage if a transverse plate is attached on the side opposite the catch, whereon to rest the forefinger. This plate is lightly guttered to lit the index. The closer the lever, or the catch, to the jaws, the less unsteadiness in letting go of the needle, hence those needle forceps that, like hemostatic forceps, have the catch at the ends of the handles are objectionable. It would really seem more scientific to employ a simple grip forceps, without a catch, whenever practicable, as