338 OPERATIONS UPON THE CONJUNCTIVA. tissues. That the new cul-de-sacs must be fashioned and main- tained on a generous scale cannot be too strongly insisted upon. Extra free division of the tissues at the outer canthus is the first essential step. This is nicely sutured as soon as the plate is put in place. The plate, if of adequate size, will be too large in some instances to be removed without making a second canthotomy, which also should be followed immediately by suturing. After this a somewhat smaller plate may be substituted, or, if the original one has again been inserted, it may be cut in two with strong scissors, in situ, before removal. It has for some time been a cherished intention on the part of the writer to procure a number of ordinary shell eyes of varying i sizes, and to have made in them suitable openings. These are to be coated with the paraffin and used instead of the lead plates. I fancy they would possess distinct advantages over the metal plates in all save the doubtful one of allowing themselves to be cut in two while in position. More recently we have taken the graft directly from the razor and placed it on the plate, i.e., without dipping it in the salt solution; nor have any sutures been employed in holding the graft to the plate. PTERYGIUM. Pterygium, also called pterygion, is from the Greek, meaning, literally, little wing, and in German it is Fliigelfell, or wing film. The term is used in the various branches of zoology to denote certain fins of fishes, feathers of birds, and coverplates of-insects. In pathological anatomy the word, besides its more common applica- tion here under discussion, is also employed with reference to a growth of skin over the nails. Indeed, ocular pterygium was, by Celsus, called unguis. As applied to the eye, the word signifies a growth of thickened or otherwise changed conjunctiva encroaching more or less upon the cornea. Two varieties are recognized, viz., the true and the false. True pterygium is always situated in the horizontal meridian of the eye and is usually the result of prolonged irritation of that part of the conjunctiva exposed through the palpebral fissure, by