55 CHAPTER II. INSTRUMENTS AND THEIR MANAGEMENT. "lis doivent etre, pour le praticien, des objets sacro-caints; des objets auxquels il ne laisse toucher personne de profane, qu'il considere lui-meme avec amour a cause de leur perfection, avec respect a cause de leur desti- nation. II apportera le plus grand soin, nun settlement a leur clwix, mais aussi a leur cntrcticn "—Landolt. "They should be for the practitioner, objects almost sacred; objects not to be profaned by vulgar hands—that he regards with fondness because of their perfection, and with respect because of their destination. He will exercise the utmost care not only in their selection, but also in their maintenance." Thus wrote my friend and teacher, over twenty years ago, in a little work called "A Box of Instruments." While with him, he commissioned me to translate it for publication in this country. I sent the English version to a friend in New York who consigned it to oblivion as concerned the ophthalmic world, by turning it over to a journal for general medicine. It was deserving of a better fate—by reason of its subject matter. This, then, would seem a fitting time and place to revive some of the excellent precepts and principles embodied in that book, and to add thereto whatever seems appropriate, in order to bring the subject abreast of the time. The word management in the above caption refers to both the manipulation and the care of instruments. First, as to the instruments themselves: What are the qualities requisite and desirable in them? This is a broad question and one of many sides. I shall attempt to answer it, not assuming the role of an oracle, but as one who has taken an active interest in the mat- ter, both practical and theoretical, for the past two and one-half decades. Much has been written concerning the instruments of the "Vienna School," of the "Parisian School," of the "Berlin School," and of the 'London School," but little concerning the "American School"; therefore, an effort will be made to show also something of