n8 INSTRUMENTS AND THEIR MANAGEMENT. Granting, then, that one is at liberty to choose the material for his instrument cabinets and his instrument boxes, I, for one, would select hard wood. The rarer and finer and harder the wood, the better. A glass shelf or two might be allowed in a cabinet, but there should be no grand array, flauntingly exposed to view in plate-glass show-cases, suggestive of a pathologic museum. For the most part, these should be made up of very shallow drawers, of the same wood as the rest. The location of the drawers is such that none is inconvenient because of being too near, or too far from, the floor. Each drawer has its lock, and, in additions, a device to prevent it from being drawn clear out of the cabinet. In these, however, only the instruments in constant use should be kept. For the handled instruments there would be racks of the corresponding wood or of ebony, and each notch therein should be fitted to, and set aside for some particular instrument, and the different objects should be arranged according to their characters, i.e., the retractors, the spoons, the hooks, the knives, he needles— each group shou d have its allotted space. The scissors and straighter forceps would have their drawers and racks, and be held in their places by delicate springs. The jaws of the forceps would be kept closed by the action of the spring that serves as a rack. All articles, such as blepharostats, odd-shaped forceps, etc., and those not easily damaged, would be loose in the drawers, or in separate compartments therein. For the more particular odd ones, their individual compartments in the drawers should have hinged or sliding covers. There will always be a certain treasured assortment to be guarded apart, to be spared the vicissitudes of ordinary handling—good new, or newly repaired, knives and scissors and the like. And none shall be left in boxes standing about for thoughtless ones to overturn or meddle with. Super- posed trays, with racks, etc., are apt to be the cause of more harm than of good to the instruments, by falling, tipping, jamming and crushing. For transporting small selections of instruments for appointed operations, at hospitals or other places, a series of small boxes, each containing from one to four or five articles, is better than putting all or any considerable number into one container. If a box be let fall, or if one is lost, the consequent damage or loss will, in this way, be minimized. The more delicate or more