EXTRACTION OF CATARACT. operation, and gives statistics based on an anatomical examination of 17 eyes after simple extraction, in which iris tissue was found in the wound three times, or 18 per cent., while in 15 eyes examined after combined extraction it occurred 10 times, or 60 per cent. Kollner reports 289 incarcerations following 1,284 combined extrac- tions in the clinic of Prof. Michel, of Berlin, i.e., in 22 per cent, of the cases. The wide variation in these reports may be accounted for in part by some observers basing their deductions on the gross findings in the living subject, while others resort to careful examina- tion of the enucleated eye, as did Becker. Differentiation must also be made between those cases of prolapse and incarceration following the combined extraction and those occurring after extrac- tion subsequent to a preliminary iridectomy. Cystoid cicatrix is one of the very late after-complications following cataract operations and iridectomies, where there was healing of the wound with the iris included. A fold of iris protrudes in the form of a hernia or a small sinus leading into the anterior chamber remains beneath the conjunctiva where the iris is en- tangled, and an ever increasing sac of aqueous is the result. The first-mentioned form is most dangerous, as nothing intervenes be- tween the external world and the interior of the eye but the attenu- ated and degenerated iris, which really amounts to a partial staphyloma anterior. Then let there be acquired a septic condition of the conjunctiva or of the lacrimal canal, and infection with panophthalmitis is likely to occur at any moment. Besides, the iris is drawn more and more into it, thus interfering with vision, and the growing vesicle becomes inconvenient and unsightly. The galvanocautery, repeated a number of times if necessary, and a long continued compression bandage is the best remedy. If the second-mentioned variety is in question, the cyst should be freely incised, the underlying fistula sought and well cauterized.1 Another sequel of these complications is high or incorrigible astigmatism. Something is to be hoped for in the experimental incisions as a remedy for this defect. Retroversion or involution of the iris is another rare phenom- enon after extraction. This consists in a turning backward of a portion or even all of the pupillary border. Most often it is the 1 Berry, Oph. Review, xxi, 88.