CLEANSING AND REDRESSING. 2<) the advent and rise of the automobile, there has been a veritable deluge of different improved styles, so that one were hard to please if he cannot be suited with a pair. Their glasses may be had in any tint, and some of them are about all that could be desired in the way of protective glasses. Cleansing and Redressing.—All the beneficient results hoped for from a given surgical operation have often either not been realized or have been turned to actual disaster by inattention to some essential detail in the more im- mediate after-treatment. Many a prolapse of the iris after extraction, for example, has occurred through carelessness on the part of the one who removes the first dressing and applies the second. It is also safe to assert that similarly many an eye has been infected. The inconsistence of a large proportion of surgeons as re- gards their attitude toward the patient (7/ the time of the operation and after the same is curious to behold. Dur- ing the first few days not only is skill and care in handling needed, but trained supervision as well, to the end that the first signs of threatened complications may be detected in good season. When practicable, the patient is taken to a room especially prepared for the dressing—that is, favorably prepared—for a room used only for such purposes might be the least favorable. The air of the apartment must be as free as possible from dust. Great tact is resorted to in properly adjusting the patient's mental state to the occasion, for there is often more apprehension relative to "the first dressing" than to the operation itself. Persons of considerable intelligence are apt to have very vague notions as to what it means to have the eye "dressed," and a few words in explanation serve to relieve the situation as regards all concerned. Everything needed must be thought of and at hand. Towels are put around the patient's neck and around the head to cover the hair, and a catch-basin is placed beneath the chin. In most instances it pleases the patient