KN l*C LIGATION. 463 ments, the globe is dislocated slightly forward by pressing the lids backward, and steadied by the fingers; the closed blades are carefully insinuated between capsule and sclera, <// the temporal side, and worked back to feel for the optic nerve. Having found what seems to be the object sought, one slides the scissors above it and presses down, then below, and presses up. If it be the nerve, the globe will turn up, then down, in obedience to the pressure. It only remains to draw back slightly, open the scissors moderately, and then advance so as to include the opticus between the blades. Before cutting, it is well to again press down and up to be sure, by the movements of the eye, that the blades are really astride. A single firm snip, and the globe jumps forward followed by an extra gush of blood (Fig. 232). It is best now to terminate the operation quickly. The globe is grasped firmly in the fingers of the left hand or the stump of the externus is seized with the fixation forceps, and one proceeds to divide whatever else is still adherent. If the bleeding is not excessive, the socket is copiously irrigated with hot sublimate solution, when the How is promptly checked. The opening in the conjunctiva is neatly drawn shut—not sutured—and any extruding shreds from the tissues beyond are cut off. Other Modifications.—There is another French method worthy of mention. It is that of Tillaux, and is called enucleation from behind forward. After dissection of the conjunctiva the tendon of the externus is severed at a little distance from its insertion. The stump of tendon is seized with fixation forceps, the globe strongly rotated inward, and, with the curved blunt scissors, the opticus is divided. Still held by the forceps, the globe is drawn out through the conjunctival opening, when it is easy to detach, Hush with the sclera, the five remaining tendons. Cunier made the operation in reverse manner, i.e., starting with the internus. E. Meyer1 carefully abstains from cutting or loosening the sub- conjunctival tissue in the region of the insertions of the recti. To make a passage for the hook, he incises the mucosa alongside each muscle, that is, in the interval of each one of the insertions. More- over, in order to preserve the union between the muscle and their capsular envelops, he lifts the tendon and shaves it from the surface of the sclera. Lastly, to augment the lateral movements of the 'Bull, et mem. de la soc. franj. d'opht., 1898, p. 185.