TENDON ADVANCEMENT. 171 contact of the ligature. But with the ligature anchored at the in- sertion, with vertical buttonholing of the tendon, careful fastening of the ligature on the nose by collodionized cotton, and with modern methods as to antisepsis and dressings, this source of danger would cease to be a factor; yet there would still remain the discomfort to die patient, for the pain was said to be severe during the several days the ligature was left in. Where the operation chiefly failed was that the internus (in the case cited) was expected to advance of its own accord and take its new hold upon the globe, instead of re- tracting as it always does. Had this been brought forward and sutured before the guying, the history of the procedure might be a very different one. This was an attempted advancement without it single suture. About this same time George Critchett,1 of London, devised his multiple suture operation, which is the parent of most modern advance- ment methods (Fig. 67). It may Fig. 67.—Critchett's advance- •1 1 a ment operation. be thus briefly described: A vertical incision about 1/2 inch long, is made between the cornea and the insertion of the tendon to be advanced, through conjunctiva and Tenon's capsule. This is opened up, the tendon is laid bare and lifted on a strabismus hook, seized near its middle with clamp fixation forceps, and severed from the globe flush with the sclera. If need be, a small strip is trimmed off the cut end of tendon. While an assistant holds the forceps, three separate sutures are passed downward, through the tendon, after having picked up a bite in the overlying membranes, one near each border and one at the middle. The first two threads are carried forward, beneath the con- junctiva, to emerge near the upper and lower limbus, respectively, close to the vertical meridian, while the third is given a similar hold exactly in the horizontal meridian, coming out at the limbus. The middle suture is tied first, to hold the muscle in its proper place, then the other two. When occasion demanded it, a fourth suture was put in. This operation, very slightly changed, is still the 1 Med. Times and Gazette, Nov., 1857.