416 OPERATIONS UPON THE GLOBE. a prothesis, they are vastly more favorable where the walls of the globe are left intact than where they have been taken away entirely. Made according to the principles just given, there being no inflam- matory reaction, not only is an extra large stump afforded for filling out the orbit and giving to the artificial shell something like suitable prominence, but the muscles are all left with their original attachments, and in their normal relations, so that its movements are reasonably extensive and natural. The Substitution of an Artificial Vitreous Body.—In spite of the greatest care in, and of only a minimum of reaction after, the operation of exenteration, the shrinkage of the stump becomes, in time, considerable, and, in consequence, its motility becomes much restricted. With the view to supplying a larger and more movable permanent stump, Mules,1 of Glasgow, conceived the idea of placing in the exenterated sclera a hollow glass ball. Encouraged by the immediate results of the procedure, ophthalmic surgeons every- where followed Mules' example, and a few became enthusiastic over it. After a few years, however, even those who had in the begin- ning been most captivated grew less ardent. Too often the ball refused to remain imprisoned. The measure was mostly abandoned. Some, who had been won by the really great plausibility of the method, began to cast about for spheres of different substances and of different construction. Kuhnt, for example, tried silver; Keal, gold; Bryant (of Omaha), fenestrated aluminum, etc. The material that seems, at the present time, to promise most in this connection, is paraffin. Living tissue will bear incorporation with this substance more tolerantly than with any other thus far in- troduced. There are two ways of filling the sclera with paraffin: i. By closing the opening in the globe and overlying membranes by a common purse-string suture, or by suturing them separately; then injecting into the scleral cavity the melted paraffin. This is the method of Brockaert, also that very successfully followed by Ramsay, of Glasgow. 2. By fashioning the sphere of hard paraffin beforehand, and inserting it in the cavity after the same manner in which Mules employed the original ball of glass. This is the mode recommended by Oatman, of New York, and is probably the more desirable as to precision. Balls of paraffin having a high melting- 1 Trans. Ophthalmolog. Society, 1885, vol. v, p. 200.