650 THE REMOVAL OF FOREIGN BODIES. so handicapped with restrictions that it seldom has an opportunity. The sideroscope has the advantage of being ready, favoring despatch, and also of indicating whether or not the foreign body is magnetic. Its use, however, is limited by its sensitiveness to surroundings and by its inability to respond to very small foreign bodies when situated in the posterior segment. Moreover, it takes no cognizance of foreign bodies other than those of steel or iron and is troublesome to manipulate. Of the X-ray methods the graphic is a method of expedience, and, in common with the others in the same group, it can make known the presence of a foreign body of other material than iron and gives an idea of form and volume. Radioscopy and fleuroscopy are serviceable on occasion, i.e., for the larger foreign bodies, but, as a rule, are unreliable. The objections to stereoscopic radiography have already been given. So that, after all, geometric radiography is the method of general utility, since it tells nearly all that any of the others can and tells it more accurately; though, as has been seen, it, too, has its limitations, not the least of them being the time it consumes. Yet, with everything at hand, the negative radiograph can be produced in half an hour. The Technic of Magnet Operations.—It is assumed that the piece of metal has been located in the vitreous by one of the modes just given, or else that this has been impracticable and that the time has come to operate. Shall it be the smaller, hand-magnet, or the giant, or both? This is a matter of choice and circumstance. For the case in point we will select the smaller, but have the other in reserve, and will discuss the pros and cons of the two instruments further on. Indeed, those who are in no way prejudiced may, on occasion, have recourse to both at a single sitting. The eye is prepared and the patient is put upon the table and narcotized. Unless there is some good reason to the contrary, it is best to have him asleep, in order to insure freedom from pain and squeezing, with needless escape of vitreous. If the injury is recent and the wound is in the sclera, and the foreign body has been located nearby, the coverings of the globe are incised and retracted and the bleeding is stanched. At this stage, if the wound is well back, fixation forceps are employed to gently rotate the eye without pressure. The tip of the magnet is inserted a very little way, without previous, enlargement of the scleral openings, if it be adequate. If not, it is