236 OPERATIONS FOR PTOSIS. suture in the tongue of skin are passed upward through the tunnel beneath the eyebrow, and the operation is completed by stitches, as shown in Fig. in. One of the latest phases of the Vautrin-Darier idea, referred to further back, is the method of Freeland Fergus,1 of Glasgow. By this measure a strip of the occipito-frontalis is, as it were, dovetailed into the affected lid. It is briefly thus: Incision the whole length of the eyebrow down to the tendon of the frontalis. Dissection of the skin, upward for a distance of two inches and downward al- most to the free border of the lid. The upper lid of the wound is strongly retracted to expose the frontalis, from which is formed a flap or tongue three-quarters of an inch wide and two inches long. Through this, near its lower or free end, are passed from below two double-armed sutures. These are carried down to the bottom of the pocket made in the lid, brought out, and tied on the skin just above the cilia. The brow incision is closed by interrupted sutures. This method certainly affords a means of directly coupling the frontal muscle and the lid. Whatever is gained, however, must be through the enhanced power of the muscle, as a whole, to raise the lid. For it is not to be presumed that the transplanted tongue will be endowed with separate or special qualities of contraction in the vicarious office thus thrust upon it; nor that the tongue will be free to slide up and down like a muscle in its sheath. The best that can occur is that the lid will be held up by a more or less rigid band ex- tending down from the forehead. And one can readily fancy how such a measure could leave the motility of the tissues about the brow more restricted than they had previously been. 2. Advancement, or shortening the levator, by making a fold therein, was first suggested by Bowman in the first volume of Moorfield's Hospital Reports, and first practised by Eversbusch,2 of Munich (Fig. 112). Under general anesthesia, the plate of Snellen's forceps is placed as high as possible beneath the upper lid and the clamp set. A horizontal incision is made, halfway be- tween the brow and the ciliary border, down to the fascia, the latter exposed by separating the lips, a vertical fold, two and one- half millimeters wide, is picked up in the center of the so-called 1 Brit. Med. Journal, March, 1901. 2 Zur Operation der congenitalen Blepharoptosis. Klin. Monatsbl. f. Augenh., Bd. xxi, S. 100, 1883.