388 OPERATIONS UPON THE GLOBE. cauterization of the apex has largely taken the place of excision. The difference in the size of the resulting scar, after excision and cautery, is very slight, particularly if the cautery is, as it should be, limited to a small area. One beauty of the cautery is that it is its own antiseptic. Since Tweedy's1 report, the weight of opinion is largely in favor of cautery with as against that without perforation. Knapp2 indorses perforation. This surgeon has had made a special round tip for burning the cone. This he lays on cold and heats till it perforates. He gives a timely caution as to overheating of the aqueous, consequently of the lens and iris; even cites a case in which he supposes he produced a cataract in this way. This would seem to be another argument in favor of heating the tip before making the contact. Elschnig,3 of Munich, has for the past 15 years been an enthusiastic advocate of the galvano-cautery for keratoconus. He believes that one of the essentials of success is the prompt vascularization of the cauterized area, which increases the density and lessens the extent of the resulting cicatrix, and causes greater flattening of the scar. In order to hasten this vascularization he connects the deep eschar at the summit by a more superficial one, running in a broad strip to the nearest portion of the corneal limbus. Because of the eccentric position of the apex in most cases, neither the denser scar nor its bridge-like extension interfere with vision through the normal pupil. If it should so happen that the tip of the cone is central, the profound burn is placed to one side so that the scar will not encroach too much upon the pupil. He considers subsequent iridectomy unneccessary or harmful, though he may afterward tattoo the opacity in such a way as to prevent diffusion. He uses the dull red heat. These measures, if not more potent for good than the older ones, have at least been less productive of harm. The author believes with Panas that, all things considered, the more conservative measures are the best, except for the extreme cases. These consist in the prolonged use of myotics and the pressure bandage, as advocated by Weber,* and Mohr.s Continued 1 Trans, of Oph. Scy. of the U. K , Jan. 28, 1892. 2 Norris and Oliver, " Diseases of the Eye," p. 825, 1898. 3 Wiener klinische Rundschau, 1904, 20. 4 A. S. O., xxii, No. 4, p. 215, 1876. s A. S. O., xxiii, No. 2, p. 180, 1877.