TESTING. 121 can usually acquire the requisite training without difficulty. If he cannot be an expert, he can at least become enough of a dab. Unless a knife or a needle meets with some accident, as a fall or a jam, whereby the edge or the point is positively damaged, no grinding upon them is ever necessary. They are then never dull in a gross sense. All they need, even after having been repeatedly used, is honing and polishing. These are best accomplished by means of a fine strop and the best of rouge pomade. Pastes contain- ing gritty substances, as, for instance, pumice or emery—no matter how finely these substances are powdered—are ruinous, and ought scrupulously to be avoided. If a point be broken or turned, or if a blade be nicked, the proper remedy is cautious grinding on a whet-stone of good quality, with the liberal use of vaselin or cold water. The great desiderata are to obtain the maximum of keenness or of trenchancy with the minimum loss of substance and to preserve the correct model of the working part of the instrument. Testing.—The most suitable material on which to test the degree of sharpness of eye instruments is known as French trial kid. Tin's means the thinnest and most delicate tanned kid—preferably of an animal that has not gone to the full term of gestation—and not split goatskin nor the still more objectionable shagreen, which is made from horses' hides. The instrument is commonly tested with the kid stretched over a drum. I prefer to dispense with the drum and manipulate the leather with the fingers The point of a knife or a needle, to be right, must pass through the kid without a jog or audible tick, and almost without sensible resistance. Kera- tomes, bistouries, cataract knives, and knife-needles should have their entire edges tried, from point to heel. In severing the kid they should not emit a distinct sawing or ripping sound. This indicates a too-pronounced serration, which is only appropriate to the larger scalpels and to the grosser instruments generally. A single puncture or incision is sufficient, as repetitions only result in loss of harpness. To try scissors they are closed down tightly, making a cut in the kid, then removed from it with blades still closed. If the points hang or catch the leather in the least the condition of the instrument is faulty. Either there is dullness at the extremities of the blades