ECTROPION. 3 Archiv. d'opht., T. ix, p. 289, 1889. pedunculated flaps, in its relation to certain other features, as rhinoplasty, for example, it is of ancient origin. It, too, was practised by the ancient Hindu surgeons. The grafts are referred to as dermic or epidermic, according as they comprise the entire thickness of the skin or only the epithelial layers. Dermic Grafts were first used in blepharoplasty by Le Fort.1 His earliest attempts were with pieces of skin cut from the arm, that included the fat, and were large enough to cover the entire defect. As they were mostly failures, he conceived the idea that they were too thick. With this in view, in subsequent trials he pared down the grafts at the back, removing the adipose and part of the connective tissue, and had the satisfaction of seeing them survive. In Great Britain and America the process was popularized through articles by Wolfe,2 of Glasgow, in which he reported suc- cessful blepharoplasties with the Le Fort method and gave original details as to technic. The dermic graft is, therefore, referred to in these countries as the Wolfe graft and on the continent of Europe, as the Le Fort-Wolfe. It may be added that the method has never ceased to find favor in the eyes of English-speaking ophthalmic surgeons, having attained, in the United States, a specially strong footing, where it is employed with almost as much confidence as is that with pediceled flaps. In truth, it is often chosen in preference to the latter to obviate the extra scar on the face. Their thickness or body, renders them peculiarly fit for replacing loss of substance in the lids. In France and Germany, however, it is pretty gen- erally decried, except as a last resort, a method of necessity and not of choice, i.e., only employed when suitable material cannot be obtained, in the form of flaps, from the neighboring integument. Valude,3 for instance, speaks discouragingly of it, having operated seventy-seven times, using Wolfe grafts for the loss of substance, with but fifteen successes. Whatever may have been the chief causes leading to the failures of our European colleagues, it is certain that immensity of grafts and of perseverence did not figure largely among them. The habitual vice of the graft in question is shrinkage. Its 1 Bull, de la Soc. de Chir., 1872, p. 39. 2 Brit. Med. Jour., 1876, and Med. Times and Gaz., vol. vii, p. 608.