TENDON LENGTHENING. 105 that amount should be made. The final step, after the tendon sutures have been tied and cut off short, is to close the conjunctival incision neatly with several points of interrupted suture. The operation of tendon lengthening may or may not be combined with tenectomy and advancement of the antagonist muscle. Stephenson remarks, in passing, that an agent has recently been placed at our disposal that acts even better in inducing local an- esthesia and hemostasis in those cases than cocain and adrenalin applied separately to the eye. The new combination has received the name of "eusemin" and consists of cocain, adrenalin, and chlore- tone dissolved in physiologic salt solution. Applied to the eye before and during the performance of the operation, eusemin renders the work at once simpler and more speedy. He further says that the operation of muscle lengthening is by no means easy to do, but he is convinced that it is more exact and scientific than the ordinary tenotomy, and the results can be foreseen and graded with considerable accuracy. The technical difficulties of tendon lengthening led the writer to find a simpler substitute and he made use of a device adopted by orthopedic surgeons—viz., the so-called "artificial tendon." This procedure is explained, and as applied to the internal rectus muscle is described as follows: "The tendon is exposed as in the former case and two sterilized silk threads are passed through the tendon about three millimeters from its scleral insertion—one through the upper and the other through the lower border of the muscle. The threads are then knotted, one long end armed with a small curved needle being left attached to each. The tendon, thus securely held, is next divided vertically on the outer side of the knot—that is to say, about midway between the latter and scleral insertion of the tendon. The threaded needles are then passed between the distal and the proximal portions of the divided tendon in such a way as to bridge over the gap left between the two. Lastly, the two sutures are tied together. An even simpler way of forming the artificial tendon is to use two needles on one length of silk. If advancement of the antagonist muscle has formed part of the operation, the sutures should not be adjusted until the first operation has been completed. If, on the contrary, muscular elongation is alone contemplated, then before