217 CANTHOPLASTY. usually the outer—of the lids and is to be distinguished from canthot- omy or tarsodialysis, which means merely a cutting of the canthus. According to its common acceptation, however, the term is used in both senses, yet with this difference; simple incision of the canthus, without the addition of sutures, is called provisional canthoplasty; and the more finished operation, wherein there is external tenotomy oculi and the divided conjunctiva and skin are stitched together or yet further elaborated, is known as definitive canthoplasty. The first is applied; for example, to the temporary elongation of the palpebral fissure that is made preliminary to exenteration of the orbit, to the enucleation of a globe of extra size, to the extraction of cataract where the conjunctival sac is much shrunken, and to relieve pressure, as in phlegmon of the orbit, in the intense chemosis of gonorrheal ophthalmia, and in panophthalmitis. The second, to permanent extension of the outer commissure for the correction of blepharophimosis, for ankyloblepharon, and for the damaging lid tension in chronic trachoma. It is also an im- portant part of many operations for entropion and is occasionally the sole measure adopted for the cure of spastic entropion. It may be stated in passing that canthotomy, pure and simple, is seldom practised nowadays, as even in most of the instances just given it is followed by sutures. C. R. Agnew, of New York, in 1875, was the first to demonstrate the immense value of canthoplasty as a thera- peutic measure in inflammations of the conjunctiva and cornea, such as the more severe phases of phlyctenular and interstitial keratitis and trachoma. Agnew's method, a modification of that devised by Von Ammon in 1839, the one chiefly in vogue, is here described. The instruments comprise large and small straight, blunt scissors (Plate IV, Nos. 53 and 54), mouse-tooth forceps, needle-holder, and two or three fine curved needles. General anesthesia only when absolutely necessary. Local anesthetics help slightly. The patient lies on the table. First Step.—The outer commissure is held moderately open by the left thumb and index, one blade of the large scissors is slid into the outer cul-de-sac as far as it will readily go, its edge exactly be- neath the angle of the lids and in line with the closed palpebral fissure. The other blade is closed down until it touches the skin, a good grip is