215 CHALAZION. in oilier words, as if the surroundings of the tumor did not exist— and this hold is maintained throughout the entire operation. The lid is turned slightly away from the eye and the incision is made exactly in the mid-line of the free border of the tarsus, the flat of the blade corresponding to the flat of the lid, and the point aimed at the center of the tumor. Having penetrated the chalazion, the knife is rocked slightly, to insure free opening of the wall, and, in with- drawing, the soft contents are squeezed out by pressing together the left finger and thumb. Still grasping the tumor, the tiny serrated curet is introduced, the unexpressed contents laded out and the walls of the cavity well scraped. The left finger and thumb feel the movements of the curet and are a guide to its work. As the instrument is removed, they are approached to hold the opposite sides of the opening tightly together and thus held for a few moments, else it would fill with blood and tend to disparage the result. The materials for applying a compressive bandage are ready at hand, so that as the lid is let go, the occluding pad, with its facing layer of wet cotton, is applied, and the simple bandage (p. 15) tied over it. This can be done in such a way that there will be no let up in the pressure upon the site of the chalazion, hence no possibility of a blood tumor forming. Twelve hours is long enough for the bandage to be worn, after which simply bathing the eye with hot water is sufficient. The advantages of Agnew's method are simplicity and the leaving of neither a visible scar of the skin, nor an irritating one of the conjunctiva. Wilder, of Chicago, has invented a lid-clamp, shaped like the letter U (Plate IV, No. 79). With this he surrounds the chalazion, then injects a few drops of cocain solution through the border of the lid into the tumor. The clamp serves both to keep the cocain from entering the general circulation and to prevent hemorrhage, while the cocain renders the cutting and curetting painless. A drop of the solution previously put on the underlying conjunctiva also helps to do away with the pain of the clamp. Removal from the inner surface of the tarsus, although the favorite mode with a few operators, is chiefly indicated when the inflam- matory process has gone so far in that direction as to have produced either a spontaneous opening or the sprouting up of granulation masses. An incision is not necessary in most instances, merely