142 OPERATIONS UPON THE APPENDAGES OF THE EYE. with the nasal cavity, a form of operation that has been recently revived. Little was done in the way of actual removal of the sac, even following Berlin's important paper on the subject at the Heidelberg Congress of 1868, till within the past 25 years. During this period the procedure has gained advocates in a sort of arithmeti- cal progression. There are two routes by which the sac is got at, one by way of the conjunctiva, or the mucous, the other by way of the skin, or the cutaneous. In the last decade the first has practically given way to the second. Mucous Route.—Probably a fair representative of this class is the method of Van Hoffmann, contributed to the Heidelberg Congress of 1896. The first step consists in slitting up, after Bowman, of both canaliculi, which are then carefully dissected out their entire length, or as far as their common duct. The loosened canaliculi are grasped by broad-jawed forceps and drawn forward, while the incisions made in slitting them are joined by separating skin from conjunctiva around the inner canthus. This makes an opening from punctum to punctum, or one about 12 mm. long. Through this one works carefully inward, between canthal ligament in front and Horner's muscle behind, to expose the body of the sac. Having freed this front and back, it is pulled downward and the dome is dissected around. The whole is then pulled out at the wound, while, with blunt dissection, the sac is loosened from its bony bed. Lastly, when only the nasal portion remains fast, this is severed with small blunt-pointed scissors, as low down as possible, strong traction being meantime made upon the sac. The only points claimed in favor of the mucous route are freedom from excessive bleeding, and absence of visible scar. When one con- siders how little these figure in the most approved cutaneous route, and puts this against the difficulties and inconveniences of the mucous route, the advantages are mainly on the side of the former. Cutaneous Route.—The form of extirpation here alluded to is that first done by von Graefe, in which the sac is removed without intentional incision of its walls, except at the entrances of the common and the nasal ducts, and is, by the writer at least, preferable to that form by which the anterior wall is opened before dissecting out is begun. Seeing that, in order to be most com- plete and successful, not only the sac, but also the canaliculi and the