170 OPERATIONS UPON THE EXTRINSIC MUSCLES. Albrecht von Graefe1. It is substantially as follows: Supposing we have to do with a divergent strabismus of the right eye (Fig. 66). The conjunctiva and Tenon's capsule are incised over the insertion of the internus, and its tendon completely severed from the globe. The membranes are then opened over the insertion of the externus, its tendon lifted on a hook, a ligature is passed through the middle of the tendon, close to its attachment, from the scleral side outward. The ligature, which includes about 1/2 the width of the tendon, is tied and given to an assistant. While traction is made with the now turned into extreme adduction, and the ligature is fastened to the nose by diachylon plaster (or other adhesive), care being taken to so place the' thread that it will not infringe upon either lid border, i.e., exactly in line with the closed palpebral fissure. If the bridge of the nose is not sufficiently high to hold the ligature clear of the cornea, it is built up by means of the diachy- lon plaster. Such is von Graefe's famed "Faden-operation" (thread operation) that has been so much criticised and ridiculed. As a matter of fact, it is not by any means one of the poorest of the many clever devices of this genius in ophthalmology. It embodies the partial tenotomy of the stronger muscle and the (intended) advancement of the weaker, and provides an ingenious and practical means of holding the globe in a favorable position for the reattach- ment of the advanced mucle. True, von Graefe abandoned it because of injury to the cornea sustained by certain of the operated through 1 Arch. f. Ophth., iii, No. 1, 1857, p. 342—344. Fig. 66.—Graefe's " faden operation." ligature toward the cornea, the operator gently pushes the hook toward the outer canthus; from 1/2 to 3/4 the width of the tendon is divided by the scissors, some 2 mm. behind the thread. The degree of sec- tion is proportioned ac- cording to the resistance the muscle is supposed to offer against rotation to the other side. The eye is