ACCIDENTS AND COMPLICATIONS. 165 tion of tendon recession, to leave both borders of the tendon, or at least its lateral fibrous expansions, intact. The section is, therefore, stopped a millimeter or so short of the lower edge of the tendon. The hook is held beneath the uncut border, the scissors are exchanged for the other hook, which, in turn, is placed beneath the upper half of the tendon, the first hook is removed, the membranes pushed beyond its point with the forceps, and, again taking the scissors, the upper section of the tendon is made precisely as had been the lower—that is, sparing the border. The result of the procedure is a small horizontal incision in both membranes and a vertical button- hole in the tendon, which separates all of its more central fibres from their former attachment. The eye is again douched with the warm boric solution, as it has been several times during the opera- tions with the double purpose of cleanliness and to prevent dryness of the corneal epithelium, and the membranes are carefully re- arranged. No suture is put in. I make this operation only as the first step in muscular advance- ment, never as a single surgical measure. The advancement proper, as described further on, is then proceeded with. Accidents and Complications, Immediate and Consecutive.— While the operation of tenotomy, as performed to-day, is one of the safest of surgical procedures as regards any serious instant mishap or any grave sequel that threatens actual loss of the eye, yet these very things have happened, to experienced surgeons as well as to the tyro, in this branch of his art. Not only are these greater dangers to be avoided by every possible means, but there are a number of lesser untoward happenings to be guarded against. Among the immediate are: Hemorrhage from the conjunctiva and Tenon's capsule. The larger vessels of these membranes are, as a rule, plainly visible and can be avoided by cutting to one side of them. This is particularly true of the capsule, where a large vein is seen to extend longitudi- nally over the centre of tendon and muscle, and it is through wound- ing of this that the worst hemorrhages come. The most to be dreaded from the bleeding is a large hematoma, which is in the way, and tends to complicate the healing process. Because of their secondary relaxing effect upon the walls of the blood-vessels, I am very sparing in the use of such things as cocain and adrenalin. Indeed, I have