536 EXTRACTION OF CATARACT. the light, fluffy, and more innocuous kind and, at the same time, too often provocative of unfavorable reaction. Panas has been re- ferred to as the originator of this process, which is an error, as his lavage was purely to free the anterior chamber of possible sepsis. Its real origin goes much farther back—even to Guerin, and the year 1773. It was little practised, however, till revived by Heymann,1 who used physiologic salt solution for cleansing the eye of blood. Since that few have not, at some time, tried it, in conjunction with extraction, yet few also have become advocates of it as a routine practice. The chief exponent of the measure in this country is Lippincott,2 of Pittsburg; and the latest model of his irrigator is probably the most suitable instrument for the purpose. Lately a small coterie of ophthalmic surgeons at Bordeaux^ have insisted that the double-cannula piston syringe, for simultaneous injection and aspiration, is the only fitting instrument. A review of the sub- ject by the present writer is to be found in the Ophthalmic Record for March, 1905. Fuchs, of Vienna, actually puts a spoon, similar to Desmarres', into the anterior chamber and ladles out the remaining cortex. This seems a bold proceeding, though it works to the entire satis- faction of its distinguished partisan, which counts in its favor. COMPLICATED AND SOFT CATARACTS AND SPECIAL MODES OF EXTRACTION. Under this heading may be classed all those cataracts that do not, generally speaking, admit of being handled according to the methods already described or by the treatment to which other methods are better adapted. Among these may be mentioned shrunken, ad- herent, dense membranous, tremulous, dislocated and soft, swollen cataracts causing glaucoma after discission. A brief discussion of them in the order of their importance follows. Linear Extraction.—This term refers to the manner of making the incision (full linear incision has already been spoken of). To-day, when one uses the term, it means merely an incision with the lance-knife or keratome, and is the kind best fitted for several va- 1 Klin. Mbl. f. Aug., 1864, S. 305. 2 Am. Jour, of Oph'y., July, 1904. 3 Archives d'ophtalmologie, Feb., 1905.