ACCIDENTS, ETC., CONSECUTIVE TO EXTRACTION. 519 upper portion, which gives much the appearance of a coloboma. It is particularly liable to occur after escape of vitreous during the operation. The shrinking back of the extruding process of that body pulls the iris back with it, or in some cases actual connective tissue bands form, by which the iris becomes tied, as it were, to the vitreous. Once, in a case of soft cataract where I had made discission, the entire iris disappeared, simulating aniridia, and it required several instillations of eserin solution to reinstate the membrane. Iritis and cyclitis, when encountered in an eye after cataract operations, do not differ materially in character from these inflam- mations when arising from other causes. Indeed, the same pre disposing causes are often operative in both instances. Owing to the changed relations, however caused by the operation, and to the absence of the lens, etc., these diseases in aphakial eyes present phases that are not found under other circumstances. One of these concerns the peculiar distortions and the closure of the pupil. The disease may vary in severity from an insignificant localized inflammation and a tiny synechia at a spot where there has been a minute rupture of the sphincter, of the pupil, through all grades of iritis, synechia posterior, occlusion and closure of pupil, cyclitis with glaucoma, or general uveitis with phthisis bulbi; or even sym- pathetic ophthalmia may result. These processes are excited by violence to the iris and ciliary body in some part of the operation, by the iris getting into the incision, by the implantation of microbes, etc., but most often, perhaps, by abandoned lens remains. And just here, another word as to the importance of freeing the eye of all cortical residue, as nearly as possible, at the proper time of the operation. The most experienced and observant ophthalmic surgeons all agree as to their pernicious effects when left in any quantity. In attempting, therefore, a simple extraction, when one is convinced that certain otherwise inaccessible cortex lurks behind the upper portion of the iris, an iridectomy it imperative. The most treacherous, of course, are the transparent remains that do not show any opacity until a day or two after the operation, as, for example, those from the nuclear cataract, that will cling to the capsule, especially the posterior half and elude the best directed effort. Then, by their swelling, crowd