224 OPERATIONS UPON THE LIDS. In course of time the free portions of the lid borders, although closed at first, become curved or concave, causing two elliptical openings which serve admirably for vision—the outer for distant and the inner for near, yet not sufficiently wide to give rise to trouble with the cornea (Fig. 98). Exsection of the Tarsus.—The cutting out of all or a portion of a diseased tarsus was done as far back as the Middle Ages. It was first undertaken for the relief of cicatricial entropion. To this end, Saunders1 in cases of shrunken and incurvated tarsi, removed cannot be consistently carried out. It is indicated in the severe tarsal forms of vernal catarrh and in obstinate chronic trachoma characterized by deep infiltration and hypertrophy and degenera- tion of the tarsus, accompanied by persistent pannus and recurrent corneal ulcers. (For description see page 356.) C. Magnani,2 of Smyrna, as a precaution against ptosis, after the operation, before tying the threads to close the wound, opens it wide and puts a double armed suture into the deeper portion of Midler's muscle, then carries the needles up and back (lid inverted), and causes them to emerge from the skin near the cilia. He, then, closes the wound, turns the lid back into position, and, lastly, ties the external thread ends over a tiny glass bead. If the operation is done after the manner here described, however, there is no extra inclination to ptosis. It will be remembered that there is an inherent tendency in many of these chronically inflamed lids to both ptosis and entropion. The usual dressing is applied, though whether to one or both 1 Treatise on Diseases of the Eye, 1811. 2 La Clinica Oculistica, Oct., 1903, p. 1460. Fig. 98. them entirely. In this con- nection, the procedure has been superseded by modern methods, as described under Entropion. The operation is resorted to after fair trial of other means of treatment has failed to effect a cure or when the circumstances are such that the other means