INSTRUMENTS AND THEIR MANAGEMENT. 120 minoid substances with which they are soiled would be thus coagu- lated and made difficult to get oft*. It has been asserted in many quarters that the process of boiling both corrodes and dulls steel instruments. This is not borne out by experience and observation. If one's experience is that his instruments have suffered in this manner he has probably failed to observe that it was due to something else than the mere boiling. Most often it is because they have remained wet for a time after having been taken out of the sterilizer. Sometimes it is the result of impure water used for the boiling. As an extra precaution against rust, it is well to put a little bicarbonate of soda into the water, 5 to 10 grains to the ounce. Of all the kinds of moisture to which instruments are exposed, there is none more corrosive than that from sweaty hands. Therefore, after handling only, it were better if the article were washed in hot water and dried. Wiping without previous wetting would not suffice to remove the salts deposited on the metal from the evaporated perspiration. Seeing, however, that this will rarely be done, let it be urged, at least, that they be thoroughly wiped. Our instruments are put through hot water after cleansing with the object of insuring rapid drying, and not that one may dispense with the wiping of them. The drying is as essential as the washing, and the time to do it is while the instruments are fresh and hot from their bath. It is of special importance that attention be given to all angles, joints, etc., to make sure that no moisture remains in them. Care of Points and Edges.—The worst enemies of these are careless and untrained attendants about hospitals and offices, and conscienceless and unskilled workmen in the repair shops. The first knock them about, rattle them together, and jab them into things, and the second grind them out of all form and substance, and deprive them of their temper or rightful hardness. -Hence, the less these persons are intrusted with our sharp instruments, the better off we shall be. Certainly, as concerns the more delicate and responsible articles it were decidedly to the advantage of those most interested, i.e., the patient and the operator, if the surgeon himself took sole charge of their care and maintenance, even to the sharpening of them. He who is not already schooled in such matters