626 THE REMOVAL OF FOREIGN BODIES. of 20 to 33 amperes, with or without rheostats. The current may be either continuous or interrupted. Storage batteries can be also employed to stimulate them, the minimum current for the ordinary giant magnet being one of 30 volts. The large magnets have lifting forces vary ng from 1/2 pound to 2 pounds. They are supported on tables, like Haab's, or suspended by pulleys from the ceiling, like Mayweg's, or pivoted by universal joints to a wall-bracket, like Volkman's. One of the handiest I have seen is that of the Victor Electric Company, of Chicago (Fig. 277). It is hung by a movable articulation to an adjustable arm, similar to the davit of a boat. This, in turn, rests on a platform with rollers. At first costly, the price has now been so far reduced that these magnets are within reach of almost any specialist, and each of them who has not access to an eye hospital where the instrument is kept, should possess his own. Both large and small magnets are furnished with tips of varying forms and lengths. To increase the length of the tip, however, and to reduce its thickness are equivalent to increasing the distance of the magnet from the eye, and as the attractive force is in inverse ratio to the square of the distance, short, blunt tips will, on the whole, prove more satisfactory. In order to increase the suction area, as it were, or sticking surface of the tip, instead of being round or cylindrical, they are better made ovoid or elliptic (in cross-section). Localization.—Taken as a whole, the results of magnet opera- tions are not so brill ant as some might be led to imagine—especially when a liberal allowance is made for unreliability of statistics. According to Hurtzeller, who has gone over these very carefully, out of 313 attempts to extract steel or iron from the vitreous, only 65% succeeded. Of these, a certain degree of vision was preserved in 22%. It is acknowledged that more than half of the entire number eventually came to enucleation—how many more are not reported. Doubtless, the number of successes would have been much higher had the most approved methods of localization been employed, or could they have been. This is the greatest essential What are the means to this end ? They are : 1. Circumstantial evidence. 2. Ocular Inspection.