604 OPERATIONS UPON THE ORBIT. tenaculums. Now the retrobulbar compartment of the orbit is opened up. If the tumor, or foreign body, be on the outer side of the cone of recti muscles, it may be removed at once, or if it is de- sirable to get at the posterior pole, or if on the inner side, the ex- ternus must be got out of the way. If it suffices merely to pull it aside, so much the better. If not, it is divided just where the tendonous portion begins, and a substantial absorbable suture is put through the two ends, for the double purpose of holding them for the time being, and of uniting them on the completion of the opera tion. With the blunted scissors, the fibrous capsule of the globe is incised so as to expose the opticus. This nerve is the land-mark. By opening up the wound to its fullest capacity, and with good il- lumination, the optic nerve can be seen from its disappearance in the sclera to its emergence from the optic foramen. During further operation the globe is drawn forward and inward, and the orbital fat is pushed back with a Jager or an Axenfeld spatula. Special care must be exercised not to injure the abducens. Other structures to be avoided are the lacrimal gland, the trochlear nerve, the in- traorbital nerve, and the (unnecessary wounding of) capsule of Tenon. Through breaking the capsule of the gland a fistula could arise. Much traumatism of the capsule of Tenon might result in crippled ocular motility. The orbital portion of the operation having been completed, the cavity is irrigated, the cut ends of the externus are approximated and the suture secured, the aponeurosis is nicely arranged, the incision in the periosteum is sutured with catgut, the big flap is replaced, and the original incision is closed with silk sutures. The usual dressing. The sutures are removed after 3 or 4 days. The healing is usually prompt. The operation, though somewhat tedious, is neither difficult of execution nor attended with any peculiar dangers. Modifications.—There have been a number of these, but none of them has meant any radical departure from Kronlein's method. They have had reference chiefly to the form and position of the first incision, and to the size of the wedge of bone resected. In fact, its dimensions in the operation just described, are in excess of those in the original operation. The cut in the soft parts is also more ex- tensive. On occasion, these cuts may be made yet more compre- hensive. Czermak, for instance, has, in this way, removed a part