174 OPERATIONS UPON THE EXTRINSIC MUSCLES. the tendon as did Critchett, he used a triple-armed suture that was threaded and inserted in the following manner: A fine, curved needle was put on at each end in the ordinary way, but at the middle the thread was doubled upon itself and passed thus through the eye of a somewhat larger needle. While an assistant lifted the tendon, the middle needle was passed through the center of the tendon from the scleral side, thence, also from within outward, through the distal conjunctival flap, the loop pulled through, and the needle removed. The other two needles were carried forward beneath the conjunctiva, one above, the other below the cornea, and brought out near the vertical meridian. They were then carried back and passed through the loop from the corneal side. The assistant then released the tendon from the forceps and the muscle was drawn up by the traction on the two. ends of thread held together. When the muscle had been brought forward sufficiently the two threads were made into a rather large knot close against the loop so that the suture could not slip.1 This measure possesses three points of great merit, in that it is simple, easy of execution, and, best of all, the tendon is drawn forward exactly in the hori- zontal meridian. Unfortun- Fig. 69.—DeWecker's modification of above, ately, it has two fatal faults, viz., the thread, although double, traverses the thickness of the tendon at only one place, in consequence of which not only is it more likely to cut out, but, moreover, the center of the tendon is pulled forward in a point, while the lateral portions are thrown toward each other in plaits—not spread out as it should be. DeWecker2 for a time practised a modification of Weber's operation (Fig. 69). Instead of holding the tendon by fixation forceps he, of course, used his own double advancement hook. The real change, however, consisted in the curious mode of disposing of 1 Haab, in his " Augenoperationen," Munich, 1904, mentions having seen Horner make the Weber advancement save that, instead of putting both ends of thread through the loop from the corneal side, he passed one end from either side and tied them so as to include the loop in the knot. 2 Ann. d'oculist, t. 70, 1873, 225.