ECTROPION AND BLEPHAROPLASTY. with the edge of the pattern and at least one-half a centimeter from it. In order to allow for both the marked primary and the very considerable secondary shrinkage, the flap is none too large if the area marked out is at least twice that of the pattern. If the incision is of the right depth, the flap will be defined by a tiny line of blood. From the base the lines that form the pedicle are extended in the direction of the defect. The incision is then deepened, until it reaches the superficial fascia, i.e., it includes the skin and the subcutaneous fat, and the whole (adipose and all) is dissected up by means of blunt-pointed scissors. The dissection is begun at the apex, using forceps to hold while cutting. As soon as the end is sufficiently loosened, the fingers, clad either in cots or gloves of thin rubber, are substituted for the forceps. In this way there is less bruising of the ilap, and one is enabled to use the scissors with greater precision. The dissection is carried well to the base, but the final fashioning of the pedicle, at its nearest point to the defect, is left until the Ilap is turned into its new position, so that the incisions may be so modified as to produce the most favorable adjustment, the least stretching, etc. The parts are flooded, from time to time, with quite warm boric or salt solution. Whatever bridge of skin that separates the two defects is incised and retracted to make a groove into which to countersink the pedicle (inlaying). After trying and insuring the fit of the flap and pedicle, these and the beds in which they are to lie are given their last attention, all bleeding is stopped, all clots removed, and they are put in the best possible coaptation throughout. Especially must it be seen to that there are no air spaces beneath the Ilap, and that its edges are not left curled under, as they are strongly inclined to do. The fewer the sutures inserted to fix the flap, the better. Their intro- duction causes injury of the flap, through mangling and strangula- tion; also bleeding of the skin to which it is stitched, and thus the risks of failure are multiplied. One at the extremity may be required, but good sitting flaps will often need none at all, the dressing alone sufficing to hold them in place. Where the entire substance is lacking, it is necessary, of course, to unite the edge of the flap to the conjunctiva by a series of fine sutures. It has been recommended by high surgical authorities that,