47 HOT AND COLD APPLICATIONS. pads onto the block. They are patted down into good contact, and, when one is wet through, it is placed smoothly over the eye. Every minute thereafter the used pad is put back on the ice and a fresh one put on the eye. The patient is apt to take a sort of grim pleasure in making the applications himself and can be, with impunity, intrusted with the task. Indeed, this is true of most of the applications of heat and cold. The author has found the following a most convenient and highly effective manner of applying moist heat or cold: The patient may be either seated or recumbent. A catch-basin is so held as to fit snugly to the neck on the side of the affected eye. A moderately large pad of absorbent cotton is dipped into the liquid—hot or cold— that is to be applied, then laid, without squeezing, on the closed lids. The attendant then drops the liquid from an ordinary eye- dropper continuously over the pad of cotton. The cotton remains soft and in perfect contact with the skin, the temperature is evenly maintained, the eye is not shocked by too sudden sense of heat or cold, the patient is not disturbed by any changing of the applica- tion, nor of having the eye hurt by an unguarded finger-bump, and the attendant is spared the discomfort of putting the hands into the liquid. Madame Bonsignorio, p. 200, in giving the indications for heat and cold in ocular therapeutics, says that, generally speaking, heat is sedative and calming, but should never be applied when there is much secretion present nor when there is edema of the conjunctiva. She classes in six categories the eye affections to which heat and cold are appropriate: 1. In the diseases a frigore; iritis, vernal catarrh, heat. 2. In other forms of conjunctivitis, cold. 3. In corneal infections with edema, especially in serpent ulcer, cold. 4. In inflammations of the appendages of the globe, such as phlegmon of the orbit, abscess of the lids, and acute dacryocystitis, cold. ^5. In glaucoma and retinal hemorrhages, heat, moderate and prolonged. 6. In the deeper inflammations, where there is no tendency to suppuration, like papillitis, chorio-retinitis, cyclitis, and iritis, heat.