34° OPERATIONS UPON THE CONJUNCTIVA. through it a thread, to which he held with one hand while, by means of a small knife, he detached the neck and body, severed the base, and allowed the wound to heal by granulation. If at the nasal side, he was careful to spare the caruncle, as to remove this body, he believed, would cause epiphora. ^Etius and Paulus,1 of /Egina, also made ablation of the pterygium, but instead of using a knife, they detached it from base to apex, with the aid of a horsehair passed beneath, which they worked like a saw. According to Richter,2 however, these surgeons left the head be- hind, and Acrel was the first to dissect off this part. Richter himself and Scarpa,^ extirpated the corneal portion , only. The idea of closing the defect left after ablation of the pterygium first occurred to Coccius.4 Previously, the diverging lines of the pterygium were followed in the extirpation, a large trap- ezoid scleral defect was left to heal as best it might, in con- sequence of which, not only did there remain a large area of cicatricial tissue, which interfered with the action of the underlying rectus muscle, but was, moreover, unseemly in appearance, and often leading, through overgrowth of granulation tissue, to what was called "secondary pterygium." To obviate this, v. Arlts in cases of large pterygia, instead of following the borders of the scleral portion, made two converging incisions which, meeting at or near the caruncle, left only a relatively narrow, triangular, scleral wound opening. The piece excised, or, if you will, the whole bared space, was manifestly of rhomboid or diamond shape, its greatest measurement being horizontal. Later, following Coccius, he undermined the edges and brought them together by fine sutures. When the growth was of small dimensions Arlt often contented himself by merely dissecting off little more than the corneal part, leaving the scleral division, in front of which he sutured together the conjunctiva, to disappear spontaneously. If the abandoned growth became swollen, or if it in any way inconvenienced, it was excised by a simple snip of the scissors. A. 1 Greece, A. D. 7. 2 Treatise on Surgery, Gottingen, 1771, p. 92. 3 Trait, des malad. des yeux, 1802-1816. 4 Ruete, Lehrb. der Augenh., 1854, Bd. ii, S. 267. 5 Die Krankheiten des Auges, i, S. 164. Prag., 1850.