PARA-OPERATIVE TECHNIC. 4§ Most authorities have written that heat is better applied for a longer time than is cold. With this I do not agree, but rather believe with the minority that short sittings of intensely hot applications have much the same effect as prolonged ones of cold. Three to five minutes of the first will accomplish more good, however, than one hour of the second, or than one-half hour of the first. Certain it is that fomentations should not be kept on for twenty and thirty minutes each, and thus kept up for hours. The effect is then much like that of a poultice, and this we all know to be bad. In general, I prefer short sittings for the hot applications—three to ten minutes, as hot as can be borne—1150 to 1250 F. for the moist, somewhat higher for the dry, and with intervals not too short—not over four to six in twenty-four hours, unless there is severe pain which is relieved by the heat. The intervals may then, in a measure, be regulated by the paroxysms of pain. Massage.—As it relates to the surgery of the eye, this mode of treatment is useful mainly in connection with paracentesis or iridectomy for glaucoma. It is, however, a most valuable and important accession to ocular therapeutics in general. Its principal virtue seems to lie in the clearing and quickening effect it has upon the local lymphatic and venous channels. Massage is plain, or medicamentous, manual {digital, rather, as concerns the eye); instrumental, that is, when an implement of some sort, as a glass rod or a swab, intervenes between the hand and eye; mechanical, as when made by a vibratory machine; and electric, as when per- formed with the electrode of a galvanic or other current. The technic of digital massage is given in the chapter on paracentesis of the cornea, and that of instrumental in that on the surgical treat- ment of trachoma. Tissue Injections.—Among the varying therapeutic tissue injections practised in ophthalmology are the hypodermic, or subcutaneous, the intramuscular, the sub-conjunctival, the sub-tenonian, and the intraocular. They are all made by means of the ordinary hypodermic syringe. The simplest and best form of this instrument is that in which all is of glass save the needle. The barrel has a scale of minims marked on its exterior. The inner surface of the barrel and the outer surface of the piston are ground so that they fit exactly one upon the other. The nub at the extremity of the