OPERATIONS UPON THE GLOBE. 43 6 not occur except there be glaucoma. Whenever, therefore, it is possible in this disease, to reduce a considerable or an ad maximum dilation by the use of a myotic, the same should be done. Thus the iris becomes better spread out and more accessible. Anesthesia.—Narcosis is indispensable with children, irre- sponsible and timorous adults, and with all eyes that are hyperemic and inflamed. There is no operation in the whole domain of surgery more exacting upon the care and skill of the operator than is that of iridectomy, and all the circumstances attendant upon the measure should be as favorable as can be made. To have one's patient asleep not only renders him (or her) incapable of doing harm, but gives greater confidence to the operator. Modern methods of general anesthesia and the substances employed, such as chlorid of ethyl and nitrous oxid in conjunction with ether, have eliminated danger to such a degree as to make them applicable to most any subject. Hence, if one has any misgivings as to the patient's be- havior, or as to the difficulties of the operation, he would better in- voke their aid. The anesthesia of chlorid of ethyl alone is sufficient for the simpler and more quickly executed iridectomies. It is im- portant that the narcosis be maintained until after the toilet of the wound is finished, for much depends upon the thoroughness of this feature. Local anesthesia, too, has its advantages, for by its use the patient is not subjected to the added risks and inconveniences, as from vomiting, etc., consequent upon narcosis, and it is a satisfaction to operate upon an eye that is thoroughly under the control of its possessor. Aside, however, from their other drawbacks in this con- nection, just alluded to, they have others. For instance, as to cocain, if one waits to begin the operation till the iris is anesthetized, there is likely to be mydriasis, injury to the corneal epithelium, and secondary dilatation of the blood-vessels, ergo, hemorrhage. These hindrances might be done away with by the choice of some other local anesthetic than cocain, yet still would there remain a large proportion of cases suitable only for narcosis. Adrenalin, or its like, I have found to cause unpleasant after effects, and by their secondary action they are also conductive of bleeding. Technic of Iridectomy.—The operation must be described in general terms, leaving specific methods and modifications to be dealt