387 CONICAL CORNEA. were directed more to improvement of the vision than to the reduc- tion of the cone. Travers and Tyrrell, for instance, in the second decade of the 18th century, made optical iridectomy, and later Critchett and Bowman attempted to substitute the dangerous operation of iridodesis. The first to institute a procedure for the actual cure of the deformity was Fario,1 in 1839. He removed a wedge-shaped piece from the summit of the cone, dressed the eye, and allowed the wound to heal without suturing, and declared himself satisfied with the results. Sichel and von Graefe, near the middle of the 19th century, sliced off the tip of the cone, preserving Descemet's membrane, then, after a day or so, touched the spot with mitigated stick. The cautery was regularly applied until healing occurred. After this the tip of the cone was punctured, the aqueous drained, and attempts made to maintain the fistula by subsequent punctures, with the object of still further flattening the cornea. If necessary, an optical iridectomy completed the surgical treatment. Bowman, in 1869, removed the whole thickness of the apex with a trephine of his own invention. He later modified the measure by leaving the posterior layer. Several days thereafter, the floor of the excavation was perforated, and regularly reopened for a period of two or three weeks. Such a procedure could not be applicable where the usual amount of thinning exists at the summit. De Wecker and Warlomont also had their trephines. Bader2 removed an oval flap from the apex, now stitching the open- ing with fine silk or silver wire, again leaving it to close of itself. All of these operative processes, while credited with a modicum of success, were, on the whole, both unsatisfactory and hazardous— the last, mainly because of the great reaction, of infection, and of iris complications. No better results followed the method of excising a segment from the base of the cone, tried by Quadri, Roosbroeck, and others. Gayet,3 to avoid these dangers, practiced cautery of the apex, to perforation. Abadie,* to obviate central opacity, moved the cautery from the apex to the more peripheral portions of the zone, respecting the posterior layer. Since the introduction of the thermic (or electric) cautery for this purpose, 1 Mem. delta Med. contemp., 1839. 2 Lancet, 1872. 3 Lyon medicate, xxx, 1879. 4 These de Guiot, 1887.