SYMBLEPHARON. 333 holes through it near the upper edge. The plate was covered with the graft, put into the new cul-de-sac and fastened along the free border by silk sutures passed through the perforations and through the lid. Two supplementary operations were required to complete the cure in both of these; the lead plate also was used, but the sutur- ing together of the lids was omitted. Fifteen months after the first operation and three after the last the lid was free, easily evertible, and there was perfect motility of the eyeball. In this case, the greater part of the cornea was transparent—had escaped in- jury—and the sight was preserved. At a meeting of the Ophthalmic Section of the Philadelphia Medical Society, April 17, 1900, Oliver reported a case of complete restoration of the conjunctival sac by a single epidermic graft. Indeed, since the publication of Hotz's and May's first articles on the subject such operations have been made by ophthalmic surgeons all over the land and, in numerous instances, with most gratifying results. A notable series of six cases was reported and exhibited by H. W. Woodruff1 at the meeting of the Chicago Ophthalmologic Society, February 10, 1903. Three had been relieved of high-grade or total symblepharon and three, where the globe had been enu- cleated and the cul-de-sacs had been effaced, were furnished with new sockets. Woodruff thus describes his mode of procedure: "The patient should be under a general anesthetic, preferably chloroform. The eyebrow and skin about the eye, and the surface from which the graft is to be taken should have been previously thoroughly cleansed with green soap and hot water, washed with alcohol, and bandaged. Immediately before the operation is begun the field is freely flushed with boric acid solution. If a pseudopteryg- ium is present, it is first dissected from the cornea, and the lid is thoroughly freed from its attachment to the eyeball, and the cul- de-sac must be made large in all dimensions. Cicatricial bands should.be removed entirely. Bleeding is checked by hot water. A plate is now cut from a sheet of block tin, which will snugly fit into the new-formed cul-de-sac. The corners are rounded off and the edges smoothed with the scissors or file. If the case be one of symblepharon, and there is danger of the plates rubbing on the cornea, it may be cut out in the center to the extent required. Four 1 Annals of Oph., March, 1903.