THE METHOD. 211 Lindsay Johnson1 recommends putting a minute quantity of cobler's wax, or resin, between the opposing jaws of the forceps, and gently heating' for a second. The material will spread evenly over the blades and insure a firm grip on the hair. It can be melted and wiped off for cleansing or renewing. The Method. Epilation, like eversion, while it can be done, after a fashion, by the merest novice, has, nevertheless, its refine- ments and is cleverly done only by those who have special training. The forceps is held between the tips of the right thumb and index, jaws up for the upper lid and down for the lower. The bulbs of the left fingers arc rested on the patient's brow, he is made to look down for epilation of the upper lid, and vice versa. The left thumb manipulates the upper lid, the left index the lower, slightly everting by pressure, raising, depressing, etc. The jaws are placed vertically astride the hair to be pulled and in contact with the skin at its base, closed—not too tightly—and gentle, steady traction made exactly in the line of the shaft of the cilium, to pluck it out by the root. Quick jerks and sidewise pulls will not do, but result in breaking off, not eradicating. The hairs, especially the tiny ones, seem to require a little time in which to relinquish their deeper attachments. The smaller the hair, apparently, the stumpier the free end, hence those that are practically invisible to the naked eye are almost as potent for harm when they touch the cornea as are the larger ones. Focal illumination made by an assistant or by the adjustable lens, attached to a head-band are valuable ad- juncts. For locating the finer cilia the lid must be so managed that the pupil, iris, or nearly closed palpebral fissure will afford a dark background for the illumined hair. Strong convex spec- tacles, or the binocular loop, worn by the operator will greatly assist him. With all these appliances certain extremely fine hairs will remain invisible and must be nipped for cautiously along the whole length of the lid. When the resistance of one is felt or a pimple is seen to rise around it the usual time is given for it to let loose. A wad of absorbent cotton that has been moistened with boric acid or sublimate solution and well wrung is held on the brow beneath the fingers of the left hand on which to wipe the forceps. 1 Ophthalmoscope, Nov., 1904.