3«6 OPERATIONS UPON THE GLOBE. 2 La Clinique Ophtalmologique, July 10, 1905. can be done simultaneously. Anointing of the lids or the thumbs is inadvisable; though sterile vaselin or other ointment or i% salt or 4% boric acid or other solution should be put into the conjunctival sac. If ointment is employed, one application per sitting is sufficient; if an aqueous solution, two or more instillations are made. Ocular massage, intelligently practised, is a most valuable adjunct in the treatment of most affections of the eye. It is peculiarly precious in diseases dependent upon degenerative changes in the circulatory apparatus, like glaucoma, the so-called albuminuric retinitis, arterial and venous thrombosis of the retina, intraocular hemor- rhage, and embolism.1 Paracentesis by Galvano-puncture of the Anterior Chamber. —Haberkamp2 has sought a measure which would be practicable without preparation and which might be done in a consultation room or at the home of the patient. While he claims no originality in the procedure he proposes, he has been unable to find it mentioned in the literature. The method is a paracentesis by galvano-puncture of the anterior chamber—the healing of the puncture being slow, a prolonged effect is had, greater than would be the case from an ordinary paracentesis. Haberkamp reports two cases treated by this method. The first case was cured; in the second the patient was blind from fulminating glaucoma, suffered agonizing pain, and enucleation was at first deemed essential; galvano-puncture stopped the pain and the necessity of removing the eye was done away with. This, in the opinion of the present writer, would be a delicate undertaking at the hands of one not skilled in the use of the cautery; as overheating of the aqueous, with consequent injury to the iris and the crystalline, could easily be brought about. Conical Cornea; Keratoconus; Staphyloma Pellucidum.— The first two terms describe the abnormality better than does the third, since it is the shape of the cornea that gives name to the defect without any special reference to its transparency, for in many instances considerable opacity exists. The apex of the cone is seldom at the center, being for the most part situated below the center. Many and varied are the surgical measures that have during the last century been devised relative to this condition. The lirst 1 Bjerrum, of Copenhagen, very strongly recommends pression massage,- over the center of the cornea only after paracentesis and iridectomy for chronic glaucoma.—L'Opk. Provinc, March, 1909.