152 OPERATIONS UPON THE APPENDAGES OP THE EYE. cautious handling, they are torn. I have found that in such in- stances the fingers may with advantage be substituted for the forceps, to hold it, after freeing its upper end. If it is highly de- generated and amorphous, one cannot always hope to get it out in- tact, but must be content to sponge out the cavity as dry as possible, search for detached islands of the walls and mucous lining, pick them up with the forceps and excise them with the scissors. A thickened, tough sac can easily be shelled out entire. Where carious bone is present it is scraped away with a hard, sharp curet, no matter if it be that of the inner wall of the fossa or lacrimal bone, whereby an opening is made into the nasal cavity. Any granular masses also undergo curettage, and this sort of cleaning out is carried down into the nostril. As a proper finish, a small olive- tipped electrode is used to cauterize the nasal end of the canal. This last, however, must not be done so long as the inflammable gases from the anesthetic are near about, else an explosion will ensue. Once in a while cutting of the internal canthal ligament is an in- evitable part of the operation, as when a fistulous opening has been established above it, though the writer prefers leaving it intact whenever possible. The incision is then extended up through the ligament. After the fistula has been dealt with—i.e., its tract has been excised—and before closing the external wound, it is best to unite the severed fragments of the ligament by a catgut suture. As much of each canaliculus as practicable, without buttonholing at the punctum, is removed, and if there are any misgivings as to the capacity of what remains to make trouble, they may be obliterated by searing their linings with a delicate galvano-cautery, as per Haab. The opening having been cleansed and the bleeding stopped, it is closed by three or four pretty deep silk sutures, between and beyond which, if needed, smaller and shallower ones may be in- serted. One cannot be too precise in approximating the lips of the incision. Provided the extirpation has been complete, no tent nor drain is put in. This is done only when there is some doubt as to thoroughness. The dressing consists of the usual wet sheet of cotton, the thick, dry pad, and the wet netting, monocular bandage; and sufficient pressure must be kept up to cause obliteration of the