38o OPERATIONS UPON THE GLOBE. in particular that it were well to mention. If, for instance, the ulcer is filled with curdled pus or other debris, it had better be cleaned out beforehand, as otherwise the operation would be cluttered. Then, if a drop of a i% solution of fluorescin is put on at the cornea, it will materially help one to distinguish the diseased tissue from the sound, for the resulting green tint will not only show the lateral dimensions of the ulcer and its zone of infiltration, but also their depth. Czermak recommends touching first the infiltrated portion, making a series of small burns close together, and, lastly, the center or ulcer itself, the last either by the small points or by a somewhat larger tip. Descemet's membrane should be spared whenever possible. It is the great safeguard of the anterior chamber. Not to wound it when the ulcer is deep requires great delicacy in handling the tip. To puncture it with the cautery also increases the risk of complica- tions. If hypopyon, which ordinarily can be ignored, should be present, it would obstruct the perforation and prevent healing. The eye is bandaged after the operation and the patient kept quiet. If necessary the cautery may be repeated. Another form of corneal ulcer in which cautery gives most gratifying results is the narrow, deep, round, central one, especially when this is complicated by a tiny hernia of Descemet's membrane. When these conditions are present there is, often apparently, no attempt at spontaneous healing. I have seen such cases that remained unaltered for months. It might be that the subject was young—as they mostly are—in perfect health, and receiving every other appropriate form of treatment for the eye, even to the pressure bandage. If any change occurred, it was a slow one for the worse. This was probably from pressure of the protruding membrane on the tissue which surrounds it, for there is always a narrow ring of gray next the hernia that, I take it, indicates a mild form of pressure necrosis. One or, at most, two, applications of the galvano-cautery will effect a speedy cure. Of course, in this instance, Descemet's membrane is instantly perforated and the aqueous spurts, but, owing to the absence of infection, and to the small size, and position of the opening, no trouble with the iris ensues. Incisions of the Cornea; Paracentesis. Punction.—The number of indications for opening the anterior chamber that have,