ENTROPION. 274 prevention; first, as to the choice of the case—never one in which the trachomatous process is still active; second, as to the preparation of the eye—make copious irrigation of the conjunctival sac with warm mild antiseptics immediately beforehand; third, as to the operation itself—not needlessly to injure the corneal epithelium by such things as too much cocain, broad spatula, or lid-clamps, nor by going through the entire thickness of the lid with the needles, thus pricking the cornea or leaving a loop of thread where it will rub that membrane. The effect of the free and prolonged instillation of cocain solution is unquestionably wrong in that it results in the drying and exfoliation of the corneal epithelium. A very few drops before beginning the operation is sufficient, and it should be seen to that the eye is flooded from time to time with warm boric solution. An additional safeguard would be the instillation of a few drops of a 25 to 50% solution of argyrol when about to apply the final dressing. This preparation is not only an effective antiseptic, but it is otherwise harmless, and, besides, has the property of remaining in the con- junctival sac for several days. ORGANIC ENTROPION. LOWER LID. Cicatricial entropion of the lower lid does not lend itself so well to the surgical methods described in connection with that of the upper. Here the conditions are different. The transformation of the tarsus, the absence of the width of the free border, disappearance of its posterior angle, etc., do not figure so prominently as in the other case. Lid tension, the tension of the border fibres of the orbicularis, strain of the shrunken conjunctiva, and the blepharophimosis are the things chiefly to be contended against. These, together with the anatomi- cal peculiarity of the inferior tarsal plate—that is, in being only about one-half the width of the superior one—necessitate a mode of handling quite special. It is true, however, that absence of the free border occasionally constitutes the main fault, and the placing of an intermarginal graft the best remedy. The prime indications are to release the lid from the binding pressure of the contractile and shrinking tissues, by resection of the border fibres of the orbicularis, by canthoplasty with cutting