EXTRACTION OF CATARACT. 574 out of 30 workers in a glass factory, Hirshberg discovered 5 who, in their 40th year had cataracts. Arlt records like experiences. Hess declared, from experiment, that high degrees of heat destroyed the epithelium lining the anterior capsule, and thus interfered with the nutrition of the anterior lens fibres, resulting in cataract. With the knowledge of these facts, Wolfberg (Die Ophth. Klinik. No, 52, 1904) conceived the idea of opacifying the lens by means of a hot-air douche. For the purpose he invented an apparatus which he calls a " Kalo-visator," by which a stream of air, heated to form 70 to ioo° C, is passed from a spirit lamp, through an asbestos tube, whose mouth is held close to the closed lids. He estimated that the temperature of the air that reaches the eye varies between 70 and 8o° C. The applications are made for five minutes, two or three times a day, for eight successive days. This usually insures the desired ripening. He uses it after discission in high myopia, and after iridectomy in senile cataract. Bahr, of Mannheim, at the Congress of Lucerne, in 1904, advo- cated the making of a paracentesis in immature cataracts, accom- panied by direct massage of the lens with a spoon or a spatula, as others before had done, but with the difference that he recommended a somewhat forcible massage, lasting two minutes, and that the extraction should follow after only five days. He declared that not only did the lens shell out of its capsule more readily after this procedure than after natural maturation, but that, owing to the new vessels at the site of the incision consequent upon the first operation, healing was more prompt. It cannot be denied, however, that such rubbing of the lens at the hands of any but the most skillful, would often lead to dislocation and loss of vitreous and other com- plications in the extraction. Artificial ripening is now deemed inexpedient by the great majority of ophthalmic surgeons, excepting in a very small pro- portion of well-selected cases. When it is resorted to, the method usually chosen is that of Foerster, viz., iridectomy and massage through the cornea with the back of a Graefe hard-rubber spoon. HISTORICAL. Although it has been variously hinted and asserted that cata- ractous lenses were removed bodily from the human eye by the