572 EXTRACTION OF CATARACT. In 1864, v. Graefe1 endeavored to improve upon the method by making three operations in succession. First, an upward iridectomy. Second, after some three weeks, a crucial opening of the anterior capsule with Bowman's needle. Third, after several days, a flap extraction. His aim was twofold—rapid maturation of the cataract and, through the proliferation of the endothelium of the capsule, to cause a loosening from it of the cortex. The end did not justify the means. Twenty years after the introduction of the v. Graefe operation, Stellwag, in 1886, proposed the discission of the posterior capsule by means of a scleral puncture. This suggestion was modified by Businelli in 1888, who proposed discission of both anterior and posterior capsules. II. Seventeen years after v. Graefe modified the simple discission for maturation of cataract, another method was devised by Foerster,2 of Breslau, which had a host of imitators and modifiers and in- augurated a veritable boom in this line. This surgeon made a preliminary iridectomy and immediately, while the anterior chamber was empty and the crystalloid was in contact with the cornea, made massage through the latter by means of the back of a Graefe hard-rubber spoon or the heel of a strabismus hook; then, after a few weeks, the extraction. The omission of the iridectomy and indirect massage through the cornea, after evacuating the anterior chamber by means of a simple puncture, was recommended by Meyer at the Copenhagen Congress in 1884. In 1885, direct massage of the lens itself was advocated by Rassander, and a little later (1888) Bettman, of Chicago, performed a similar operation with an instrument of his own design. Direct massage was accomplished by following the paracentesis with the introduction of a blunt instrument through the corneal incision and gently triturating the lens. In some instances this procedure was accompanied by iridectomy, a la Foerster. Although this operation had many advocates, it has ever had many harsh critics, among them De Wecker, who termed it the "still-born operation," and, in- deed, it seems fraught with danger. Except in the hands of the most skilled, there is liability of damage in many ways. A little too 1 Archiv. f. Ophthal., x, a. 2, S. 209. 2 Foerster, Archiv. f. Augenheilk., xii,3, 1881.