OPERATIONS UPON THE CONJUNCTIVA. 348 was made into a slip-loop around the pterygium and the ends fastened to the cheek by means of collodion. After a few days the growth perished and was excised. Von Arlt,1 in a case of cicatricial pterygium, following blenor- rheic conjunctivitis, cast two ligatures around it and allowed them to cut through. The pterygium soon after disappeared. 4. The thermal cautery as a single measure for the removal of pterygium, though it has been, to a limited extent, used in this capacity, is not especially to be commended. Its only place, in this connection, would seem to be in conjunction with other means more strictly surgical. For example, Martin,2 of Bordeaux, after having practised ablation of the growth, made several successive cauteries on the site of the corneal implantation, by means of a strabismus hook heated to redness in the flame of a spirit lamp. Panas3 did the same, only with an olive-tipped thermocautery. Chibret* made a similar operation to that of Galezowski, just men- tioned, but before rolling the pterygium upon itself, he applied the galvano-cautery to its posterior, or raw, surface. This was supposed to hasten the atrophy of the growth. Deschampss affirmed that cauterism of the corneal portion, when well done, especially if combined with a good scraping, rendered any sort of conjunctival autoplasty inutile, and that the cure was rapid and permanent. Most all authorities agree that it is highly 'indiscreet to cauterize the episcleral part of the wound opening. It should also be borne in mind that the electric cautery is, in this respect, an instrument whose employment should be confined to the most experienced and skillful hands, as in any other than these, because of its tremendous energy, its work is sure to be overdone and deep scars be the result. Unless one is sure of himself, it were better to employ for the purpose the iron made red-hot in the flame. The actual cautery is particularly helpful in getting rid of the infiltrated head that sometimes thwarts one's efforts at dissection and scraping, and whose complete removal is of the utmost importance. Starkey,6 of Chicago, recommends the galvanic current for the 1 Operationslehre, S. 381. 2 Annal. d'oculist, 1881, p. 144. 3 Maladies des yeux, 1894, t. ii, p. 265. 4 Archiv. d'opht., t. xi, p. 528, 1891. s Bull, et mem. de la Soc. franc, d'opht., 1895, p. 510. 6 Journal of the Am. Med. Association, Sept. 11, 1898.