ABRASION OF THE CORNEA. the foreign body be of steel or iron, however, and so imbedded that it cannot readily be got at with other instruments, it can surely be removed by some form of magnet. If sufficiently loose, a horse-shoe magnet or the Gruening pocket-magnet. If more tightly fast, lhe Hirschberg electro-magnet or the giant electro-magnet of Haab, or a modification of it. Traction should, of course, be from the same direction as that in which the foreign body entered. More explicit instructions for the use of the magnet are given in the chapter on "Foreign Bodies within die Eye." Atropin and an occlusion bandage, in addition to the mild antiseptic irrigation, are the rule in the severe cases. ABRASION OF THE CORNEA. This consists in scraping, shaving, or excising from the cornea varying amounts of its substance for the removal of opacities. It is a very old procedure, having been practised long before Galen's time. This surgeon employed it for certain forms of superficial corneal opacity. Malgaigne,1 having concluded from experiments upon animals that half the thickness of the cornea could be re- moved without leaving an opacity, proposed giving the opera- tion a much wider range of application. Notwithstanding, the fact remains that, owing to their depth and the replacing of the lost substance by opaque tissue again, very few of the many forms of opacity will yield to such treatment. This is not to say, how- ever, that the operation has not a wide sphere of usefulness. This is particularly true of the scraping method. Indications.- -It is most frequently indicated in deep slow ulcers, such as those at or near the center that have been left from phlyctenular keratitis, the removal of foreign bodies, etc. These, being so removed from the vascular zone, often become filled with a mass of detritus and all efforts at repair cease. It has also been extensively used in the more active, infectious ulcers of the cornea, principally in the serpiginous. Meyerhofer,2 instituted a method for the treatment of such ulcers that has been extensively followed, viz., curetment of the ulcer and its infiltrated border with a small sharp spoon, filling the remaining cavity with iodoform powder 1 Annal. d'oculist., 1843-45. * Kl. Mbl. F. A. S. 1 $i, 1884.