126 OPERATIONS UPON THE APPENDAGES OF THE EYE the spindle. The diameter of the shaft is also much less than that of the spindle, and owing to this fact the friction, instead of being all the way along, is practically confined to the enlarged portion only, yet the effect is that of a probe of the diameter of said en- largement; hence, traumatism and discomfort are both minimized. They are especially useful for systemic treatment, as for example, of stenosis from swollen lining, from cicatricial bands, etc., since they pass both backward and forward through the narrow places with great ease, and can be insinuated cautiously and certainly into such places with the view to local dilatation. Indeed, one of the chief advantages in the employment of these sounds is one's ability, owing to the peculiar form of the instrument, to feel along, as it were, for obstructions, and thus to locate and deal with them by passing the spindle back and forth through them—a procedure not possible with rigid sounds or those that are cylindrical and of uniform or nearly uniform diameter throughout. In the manufacture of these sounds the strictest attention should be given to minute detail of form. To mention a few points, for instance, the bulb on No. i and the entering or guiding bulb on No. 2 should not exceed 3/5 millimeter in diameter, and both should be neatly rounded. Then, where bulb joins spindle and where spindle joins shaft, there should never be abrupt curve, but one part should be made to pass into the other by almost insensible degrees. The size of the spindle ranges from two-thirds of a millimeter in diameter up to two millimeters. The bulbs, from one-third to two-thirds of a millimeter, and the length of spindles from five millimeters for the smaller, to eight millimeters for the larger. The shaft, like the tips, varies from one-third to two- thirds of a millimeter in diameter and is eight centimeters in length. At the distal extremity is a flat shield or heart-shaped plate by which one may always know the direction of the bulb after having bent the shaft in any desired manner. As to the wire for the smaller sounds, it cannot be too springy, but ought not to be of greater thickness than 2/5 of a millimeter; that of No. 1 could well be just short of that. The two smaller sounds are introduced without previous dilatation of the punctum. No. 3 can be used only after dilatation, whereas No. 4 is employed in cases where Bowman's operation has already been performed. The one in