349 PTERYGIUM. treatment of pterygium, but not to the extent of actually burning the growth, but for its milder electrolytic effect. Among the other procedures employed as adjuncts to pterygium operations may be mentioned conjunctival autoplasty by means of mucous grafts1 and of Thiersch skin grafts.2 The last mentioned took from behind the ear an epidermic graft somewhat smaller than the scleral defect, and, in order to prevent overlapping of the corneal margin, fastened it in with two fine sutures at a little distance trom the limbus. Grafting is applicable to either ablation or transplantation, and the method of Hotz is an excellent one. Thin epidermis furnishes more suitable material for the purpose than does mucous membrane. It is more easily kept in position, it does not become red and meaty, it is less likely to perish, and its whiteness, lying as it does upon the sclera, is a positive advantage. Such accessory measures are, of course, reserved for the larger pterygia only. False pterygium, also known under the names cicatricial pterygium, pseudo-pterygium, and pterygoid, refers to an irregular growth of conjunctiva taking place upon the cornea, as a result of burns and other lesions, and its approach may be from any direction or from several different points at the same time. Under this head- ing may also be placed that unfortunate class of cases wherein there have been recurrences of the pterygium after operations for its re- moval, and there is a sclerotic degeneration of the cornea, or a condi- tion resembling the so-called keloid cornea. Where these are present , are not progressive, and the sight is not greatly diminished in conse- quence, one would better abstain from further operative measures. The exaggerated forms tend more or less to restrict the movements of the globe and to produce strabismus, which constitute additional indications for surgical intervention; and they are often associated with symblepharon (symblepharo-pterygium). In its surgical treat- ment, therefore, false pterygium involves many of the principles which are concerned in operations for symblepharon as well as most of those just described in connection with the true form. No sel methods can be laid down for their operative handling, as they present so great a variety that each case must be separately reckoned with. 1 S. Klein, Allgem. Wiener med. Zeitung, 1876, Nos. 3 and 4. 2 F. C. Hotz, of Chicago, Klin. Monatsbl. f. Augenh., 1897, p. 610