354 OPERATIONS UPON THE CONJUNCTIVA. insignificant. Upon removing the bandage, if it is found that the conjunctiva is creeping forward, it were best to loosen it up with a blunt instrument, push it back, and smear with vaselin. L. Webster Fox,1 of Philadelphia, has recently made a plea for the rehabilitation of peridectomy, and states that in 108 such operations, performed by him within the past three years, the results had been most gratifying. He further states, "The operation as performed at present consists in excising a strip of bulbar conjunctiva 2 to 5 mm. wide surrounding the cornea. The vessels on the cornea at the limbus are scarified by means of a Beer's knife, butnocauterant is employed. The eye is anesthetized by the instillation of cocain (5 per cent, solution), and excessive hemorrhage may be controlled by the application of adrenalin solution, i to iooo. This is the operation referred to as peridectomy, and should always be combined with treatment directed toward the underlying cause of the corneal vascularity." I believe with Fox that the operation, whether it be peritomy or peridectomy, particularly the former, has been unjustly maligned. Among those who speak disparagingly of it is no less a person than Knapp,2 who says, "I have performed it (in reality peridectomy) a number of times. The result was too uncertain and the danger of sloughing of the cornea was ever present. I think the operation has been generally abandoned." The last two statements are most surprising. Most surprising still, the distinguished author falls into the popular error of confounding peritomy with peridectomy, for he calls the operation by the first name and says that it "consists in the removal of a strip, from 5 to 8 mm. in breadth, of conjunctiva around the cornea." In view of the fact that the vast majority of cases wherein such surgery is indicated concerns eyes whose conjunctival sacs are already shrunken, makes peritomy, in my opinion, by far the more rational procedure of the two. Instead of sustaining a loss the conjunctiva is made to gain, in that the pushing back of the bulbar portion tends to deepen the previously contracted fornices. As to the dangers, I have never seen any untoward consequences from the operation. 1 Annals of Ophthalmology, Oct., 1903, p. 615. 2 Norris and Oliver's System, 1898, p. 853.