AMPUTATION OF THE SCLERA. 417 point—140 degrees and over—are prepared by fusing, filtering, and sterilizing, then rolling, while yet warm and plastic, with the protection of rubber gloves. In size, they should vary from a diameter of 12 mm. to that of 18 mm., according to the capacity of the sclera they are to occupy. They are kept ready for use in a glass jar Tilled w ith a 5' [ solution of formaldehyd. Before being placed within the sclera, the ball is rinsed with a solution of bichlorid, 1-2000. If the opening in the sclera is sufficiently large, the ball may be put in place with ordinary dressing forceps. Usually, however, it will be found more convenient to introduce it with the aid of the Mules inserter (Plate VIII, No. 89). All bleeding is previously stopped by means of hot bichlorid irrigation. The scleral opening is closed over the sphere in the vertical sense, i.e., by silk sutures, placed horizontally. If the conjunctiva has been first incised around the cornea, chromicized catgut is used to close the sclera in the manner just stated. The conjunctival opening is then drawn together in the horizontal sense—or, by interrupted silk sutures placed vertically. Purse-string or tobacco-pouch sutures are not admissible. The eve is dressed in the usual way and left for 48 hours before redressing. Not only is the most rigid asepsis necessary, but it is indispensable that the character of the coapted lips of the scleral opening is such as to insure primary union, else the ball will surely be extruded. Whereas, after exenteration with- out substitution of the artificial vitreous, it matters but little whether the adhesion be prompt or delayed. Amputation of the Anterior Segment of the Globe.—Guerin, Saint-Ives, and Heister, in the 18th century, advised, when practi- cable, to remove the front half of the eyeball, instead of making a complete excision of the globe in order to facilitate the wearing of a prothesis. The procedure was considered applicable to cases of malignant tumors confined to the section to be discarded and to total staphyloma of he cornea. The operation consisted in the ablation of the cornea, the iris, and the ciliary zone, leaving intact the insertions of the straight muscles with their capsular coverings. The scleral incision should be started with a cataract knife, and finished with blunt-pointed scissors. The remainder of the uveal tract, with the retina, is then to be curetted out, and the cavity kept packed with antiseptic gauze until healing occurs. If the operation 27