228 CHAPTER VI. OPERATIONS FOR PTOSIS. The original term for falling down of the upper lid was blepharop- tosis, which, although more expressive as to the actual import of the word, has quite properly been superseded by the abreviation ptosis. This affection may be either congenital or acquired. Con- genital ptosis is not uncommon, and, in a large proportion of the cases, it is bilateral. It is often associated with epicanthus, microph- thalmus, squint, and other connate defects. Acquired ptosis is, in most instances, paralytic; that is, it is the result of paralysis of the levator from disease or from traumatism. Distinctive forms of ptosis are ptosis senilis, from slow progressive atrophy of the levator; ptosis adiposa, and ptosis elephant last ic, or cutaneous ptosis, from redundance and relaxation of the lid tissues; ptosis trachomatosa, from the combined effects of the characteristic infiltration, the blepharospasm and the ensuing shrinkage of the conjunctival sac from trachoma; and ptosis hysterica, or pseudo-ptosis, from voluntary or spastic contraction of the orbicularis. The dropping of the lid is also distinguished as partial or complete. Whether congenital or acquired, the vast majority of cases are fit subjects for surgical treatment. This is divided into paliative or provisional, and curative or definitive. The first consists in the application to the lid of collodionized bands or strips of adhesive plaster, the insertion of restraining sutures beneath the skin, and the wearing of specially designed preventive spectacles, or artificial spring supports, of thin metal or other material, affixed to the lid borders, to act as antagonists of the orbicularis. These temporary measures are seldom resorted to; for, when intervention of any kind is called for, an operation that will give permanent relief is de- manded, or operative treatment. It is rather singular to note how little attention was paid to ptosis in early times—surgically, at least. By the ancients, the affection was, in great measure, confused with entropion and trichiasis; and