PARACKXTKSIS OF THK CoRXKA. 381 first and last, been supposed to exist, is infinite. In truth it has, perhaps, a broader field of alleged utility than any other opera- tion that is made upon the eye. The following are some modern applications: 1. In Acute Glaucoma, w hether (a) idiopathic or (b) secondary, a. Given, a case of acute glaucoma, with great pain, hyperemia, chemosis, etc., and it is not practicable to give a general anesthetic for iridectomy. It is well known that cocain has no effect in such cases, yet it would be possible to make a simple incision at the base of the cornea with far less additional suffering on the part of the patient than to go ahead with the iridectomy. Having relieved the tension, the iridectomy, if still necessary, could be made after a few days under cocain. Moreover, the chances of loss of vitreous and of choroidal hemorrhage would be lessened by the preliminary incision. In acute secondary glaucoma, such as that from the swollen lens after discission, and after accidental traumatism, paracentesis is imperative. Under these conditions the procedure is usually accompanied by the extraction of lens substance. I have had occasion to make the operation in fulminating glaucoma due to dislocation of the lens into the anterior chamber, not daring, for the moment, to attempt extraction. 2. In certain cases of blood in the anterior chamber. Ordinarily these are let alone, and the blood is promptly absorbed. If, on the contrary, it remains for 5 to 7 days without appreciably lessening in quantity, it would better be got rid of, as it may lead to the so- called spongy iritis or organized clot and other dangers. When present as the result of an injury, the blood could cause a foreign body within the eye to be overlooked. Haab mentions the pos- sibility of a hyphema occurring and obstructing the pupil in a case- where one is interested in ophthalmoscopic observations, as, for instance, the development of a neoplasm. 3. In Iritis and Iridocyclitis.—At the height of the inflam- matory process there often comes a time when, because of the hyper- emia, etc., the iris and the ciliary muscle cannot be made to respond to the mydriatics and cycloplegics employed, nor do soothing reme- dies serve to relieve the severe pain in and about the eye. As was pointed out by Abadie,1 free punction of the cornea makes the eye 1 Gaz. des hopitaux, p. 20;, 1S74.