ACCIDENTS IN IRIDECTOMY. 45 [ the incision from the sclera, the more liable it is to gape. < >n the other hand, in no instance ought the wound to be further back than is sufficient to admit of its inner lips occupying the extreme outer limit of the anterior chamber. That such should be the case, however, especially when there is considerable lack of said chamber, the outer lips of the incision will be anywhere from i to ^ mm. behind the apparent sclero-corneal junction. Faulty direction may be due to a movement on the part of the patient, as, for example, turning backward of one edge of the keratome into the ciliary body or forward into the cornea. This is particularly liable to happen while endeavoring to extend the incision in withdrawal of the knife. Hence, a timely word of caution to the patient, firm fixation of the globe, and a steady, deliberate manipulation of the knife are the best preventives. The defect in direction, however, that is most frequent is the interlamellar incision—also referred to as split cornea and pocket incision. This is usually consequent upon the mistaken judgment of the operator. In his anxiety lest he engage the iris, and possibly the lens, the knife either utterly fails to enter the anterior chamber or does so through a cut so slanting that the inner wound opening is far from the periphery and the proper grasping of the iris is difficult or impossible. If one is confronted with the first dilema, of course the aqueous does not escape, and he has but to withdraw the knife and begin over, this time with more discernment. But if the chamber is opened and the iris safe from seizure beneath the shelving nether lip of the wound, the iridectomy must be postponed for a time. An insufficient hold of the globe by the fixation forceps may lead to splitting. At the moment one attempts to make the puncture, mayhap with a knife none too keen, the considerable force required causes the grip of the forceps to yield, and the eye to rotate away from the knife, thus changing the original plane of the incision to one of a grade less steep. The making of a pocket in the cornea is usually evinced by a peculiar opacity which surrounds the advancing point of the knife. The obstacles offered by too small an incision mainly concern the opening of the iris forceps, and may be sometimes overcome- by substituting the rotary forceps or the blunt hook. If neither serves, the incision must be extended by blunt-pointed scissors (Stevens' strabotomy scissors), or by some such instrument as