522 EXTRACTION OF CATARACT. Aside from the preventive measures already enumerated, mention must be made of the internal administration of potassium iodid. L. Dor, before the French Congress of Ophthalmology of 1901, reported experiments upon animals whereby he had demonstrated that one to two grams of potassium iodid given the day before the operation had power to prevent all inflammatory phenomena in eyes inoculated with cultures of the staphylococcus pyogenes aureus in doses sufficient to produce panophthalmitis in the eyes of control animals. Certainly, a simple and harmless prophylactic which could easily be added to the routine of preparation. Treatment.—Calomel, salicylates, milk-punches, quinine and strychnin, leeches to the temple. Locally, the hourly (night and day) moderate irrigations of very hot 1/2000 or 1/1000 bichlorid solution, immediately followed by copious ones of hot boric acid solution. Subconjunctival injections of the salts of mercury and the injection of antiseptics into the anterior chamber, etc. I have recently seen such an eye apparently saved by the deep (subtenon- ian) injection of the cyanid of mercury 1/1000, 8 to 12 minims at a time, every twenty-four or forty-eight hours. Cautery of the in- cision is practised by some after reopening it. This is followed by irrigation of the anterior chamber with mild antiseptic solutions. French surgeons are partial to the use of methylene blue, both internally and externally, in these infections, but the practice has never been popular in the United States. Haab introduces into the anterior chamber soluble rods impregnated with iodoform. Filtration Chemosis.—In those cases where the corneal flap has included some portion of the conjunctiva, the incision in the latter occasionally unites firmly before there is healing of that in the underlying cornea, hence, if the aqueous now escapes, it will ac- cumulate between the sclera and the conjunctiva. The opalescent, edematous swelling which results, is of unmistakable appearance— being free from redness, and changing its location in obedience to the law of gravity. The progress of the eye is not seriously inter- fered with, and no special intervention is called for. Iritis, cyclitis, and glaucoma, secondary to the extraction, have already been considered (see p. 519). Late Wound Healing.—This phenomenon is recognized by the persistent or intermittent absence of the anterior chamber for