437 GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS OF IRIDECTOMY. with later. The patient lies on a table. For all upward iridectomies the operator is usually stationed at the head, though a few prefer, for these, to stand at the side nearer the eye, which, of course, necessitates an inverse handling of the instruments, i.e., pulling the keratome instead of shoving it, and pushing out the iris in lieu of drawing it out. For inward iridectomy the favorite place for the surgeon using the bent keratome is on the side opposite that of the eye concerned, while in downward and external iridectomies, it is on the side adjacent. The assistant takes position facing the operator. The blepharostat is used, excepting in cases where loss of vitreous is to be apprehended, in which event the assistant holds the upper lid with a Desmarres reactor and the lower with his ,fingers. The globe is steadied by grasping the conjunctiva and episcleral tissue close up to the cornea, just across from the site of the incision, with strong fixation forceps having no catch. The hold of the forceps must be deep and broad. The point of the keratome is placed at, or slightly back of, the sclero-corneal junction, with its blade almost perpendicular to the globe, cautiously shoved in till the thickness of the corneal base has been perforated or till, by the feel, it is known that it has barely entered the anterior chamber. The handle of the knife is then depressed, to bring the blade parallel with the plane of the iris, just above which membrane it is pushed along, taking care that the point engages nothing more, and that neither edge encroaches upon either clear cornea or upon the ciliary body until it is deemed wise to stop (Fig. 223). Thereupon, the handle is further depressed to avoid wounding the advancing lens, the globe is held firmly, without pressing down or lifting up on the forceps, the blade is gently withdrawn a little way, and most of the aqueous allowed slowly to escape, when the knife is wholly withdrawn. Should one wish to extend the cut in the withdrawal of the knife, the point is swung around in the direction of the proposed extension, but holding the blade pressed close up to avoid premature running out of aqueous, the handle depressed, and the incision lengthened by a steady movement which consists in shoving the whole knife to that side and at the same time withdrawing. Where an extra long incision is wanted, as in glaucoma, one makes the incision with the view to such enlargement. To this end the incision is begun, say, to the left of what will be its middle, so that in extending