INSTRUMENTS AND THEIR MANAGEMENT. 74 same being true, though relatively less, as to the other two. The extremities in all are smoothly rounded. This form gives a crook that is readily inserted beneath a tendon, is not so slight as to allow the latter to slip off easily nor so pronounced as to be difficult to dis- engage The Graefe hook is adapted to the work of picking up the tendons in enucleation, and that of holding the . tendon, well spread out, for the placing of sutures, etc. The medium hook answers for the same purposes, but is better adapted to the picking up of the tendons in tenotomies and advancements. The Stevens hook is, preeminently, the hook for the partial tenotomy. It is remarkable to what an extent the Graefe squint hook has become an all-around handy instrument. As examples of its uses are the following: In extirpation of the lacrimal canal, if the hook is passed beneath the sac as soon as that organ is oposed, the dissection is greatly facilitated by working the hook up and down between cupola and the nasal duct. In the removal of the corneal portion of a pterygium it serves admirably as a divulsor. In the withdrawal of bits of iron or steel from the interior of the eye through a wound or incision, the hook may, on occasion, and with advantage, be inserted at the opening, then put in contact with the tip of the magnet, instead of introducing the tip itself. It is employed to express the lens in the extraction of cataract, especially in the "Indian" operation. It is frequently made to act as a retractor in holding apart the lips of incisions. Iris Spatula.—The tortoise-shell spatula is an ideal instrument, and the hard-rubber one but little inferior. Unfortunately, they cannot be—at least, they are not—fastened to the metal handle in a manner that will allow of their being boiled. They can, of course, he made aseptic by other means, but there is a sense of security in being able to boil all the instruments, for a particular operation, that comes of no other method of disin- fection, so that every one should be boilable. The best spatulas, to my knowledge, that conform to this principle, are those of silver and of gold. If of the last, in order to have the re- quisite strength and elasticity the fineness of the metal should not exceed 10 k. The blade, including the shank, is 3 1/2 centimeters long, and is 1 1/2 mm. wide throughout, and not more than 1/4