ANTERIOR CHAMBER. 6l7 Anterior Chamber.—Probably less than 25% of the foreign bodies that enter the eye find lodgment in this chamber. If they have great velocity or striking force, they mostly go beyond, and if the contrary, the great majority fail to pass beyond the cornea and sclera. Many of those that do stop here are of the trans planta- tion kind, i.e., the extraneous substance is carried in by the implement that makes the corneal wound, instead of making an opening for itself. In this way cilia, bits of bark, earth, etc., get in, and, in addition, an implantation cyst of the iris may develop. With the exception of the lens, the anterior chamber tolerates foreign bodies better than does any other part of the eye: hence, one may be more deliberate in putting into effect plans for their removal than if they were in the uvea or the vitreous. If obscured by blood, one may usually wait for the latter to be absorbed. If the history indicates the presence of iron or steel within the eye, steps should, meanwhile, be taken to locate it, and if found in this place, it should be at once removed. Infection also requires prompt action. This is not to intimate that any foreign body should be allowed to remain in the anterior chamber if there is a fair chance of removing it. Far from it. The usual mode of determining their presence is by ocular inspection, aided, if need be, by direct and reflected illumination, and by the binocular, or stereoscopic loupe. Often the closest scrutiny and the strongest focal illumination are necessary. Siderosis of the iris, or the characteristic iron-rust tint, is a pretty sure sure sign that a foreign body is in that membrane or elsewhere in the uvea, or has been. In rare instances the foreign body may be got out through the wound of entrance, though this may have to be enlarged; if of iron, with a magnetized probe, with the tip of a hand magnet, or, without inserting an instrument, with the giant magnet; if nonmag- netic, with Knapp's spoon or with suitable forceps. Nearly all, however, will necessitate incision at another place. Even in case of still patent entrance wounds, if the body is small, and has lodged at a distance from the wound, it is best to make an incision at a near-by point. The removal is facilitated if the keratotomy lies close down to the iridic angle, so that the substance can slide out on the iris without being caught behind the posterior lip of the cut. It is desirable that the traction instrument pry the incision open as little as possible, to avoid needlessly spilling the aqueous. When