395 CORNEAL GRAFTING. carry the notion into execution. Desmarres,1 imbued with the idea of Reisinger, made divers trials of it upon animals. He demonstrated that the grafting of a cornea was possible, but he found that the transplanted portion always lost its transparency, so he abandoned the project. The next to take it up was Power,2 but chiefly in a theoretic manner. The most determined and serious efforts at optical keratoplasty within recent years were those of von Hippel.3 Having, like Desmarres, become discouraged by attempts at total keratoplasty, von Hippel finally adopted the method proposed by Muhlbauer, just alluded to, viz., that of partial kerato- plasty, and devised an ingenious trephine for cutting both the cornea to be replaced and the graft. He found that while a total graft would become opaque in 2 or 3 weeks, the partial would remain transparent for a much longer time. Ivnapp-* relates having seen a patient pre- sented by von Hippel at the 1887 meeting of the Heidelberg Ophthal- mologic Society, on whom he had made such a keratoplasty more than a year previously. "The piece was still tolerably transparent, and the patient had useful sight." The ultimate fate of the best results so far obtained has been loss of the restored sight through clouding of the graft. It goes without saying that the operation is not to be thought of in any case where vision can be restored by any other known means, such as iridectomy. Seeing that the Descemet's membrane and even the deepest portion of the corneal tissue proper must be transparent, the cases to which the method is applicable are rare. The graft may be made in any available part of the cornea. If the iris should be in the way of vision it should be excised. The operation of partial keratoplasty after von Hippel is briefly as follows: Local anesthesia. First, one makes an estimate as to the thickness of the leucoma. This is done by lightly pressing upon it with a blunt stylet, and testing the degree of resistance. Usually the trepan would be set to cut the depth of about 0.75 mm. The diameter of the disk should not exceed 4.5 mm. The eye is steadied, and the trephine, which works automatically by a spring, is made to cut to the indicated depth. The instrument is removed, and, with 1 Ann. d'oculist, 1843. 2 Trans. London Congress, 1873, pp. 189-194. 3 A. S. A., xxiii, 2, S. 79, 1887; xxiv, 2, S. 33 5;xxiv, 1, S. 108, 1888. * Norris and Oliver's System, 1898, p. 832.