276 ECTROPION. of skin and muscle lying next to the margin are caught with forceps and dissected from the tarsus until the cilia are exposed, taking care not to buttonhole, and the attached fibres of muscle removed with scissors. The two corners of skin are undermined and the whole opening closed by small sutures. If still greater effect is wanted, a triangular piece of the tarsus may be excised, base down- ward, or in the opposite direction to that of the skin triangle (see dotted lines in accompaning cut). The curious operation for entropion of the lower lid that bears the name Flarer-Stellwag1 was made by "scalping" the lid, turning the abscinded strip upside down and replanting it. ECTROPION AND BLEPHAROPLASTY. The name ectropion which is the exact opposite of entropion, refers to an eversion or turning outward of the lid, either partial or total. The degree of eversion varies between that slightest of all partial forms, wherein the lower punctum loses its suction on the globe by the merest separation therefrom, to that most extreme of total ectropion, where, through extensive destruction of the in- tegument surrounding the palpebral fissure and the subsequent contraction, both tarsi are not only inverted, but drawn widely asunder so as to expose the entire area of the conjunctival sac. For convenience, we may separate the varieties of ectropion into four grand divisions, which, given in the inverse of their importance or frequency are, (a) Spastic, (b) Mechanical, (c) Atonic, and (</) Cicatricial. Spastic ectropion, muscular ectropion, acute ectropion, are several names that denote the same condition, and affect mainly the lower lid. Spastic ectropion has its beginning in some sudden swelling of the conjunctiva or advancement of the globe that tends to push forward the free or straight border of the tarsus. At the same time the backward pull of the orbicularis, through normal contraction upon the convex border, together with the continuance of the outward push of the border, completes the eversion by over- coming the action of the marginal fibres. The ectropion once ac- 1 Flarer :Reflexioni sulla trichiasi, etc. Milano, 1828. Stellwag, v.c.: Ein neues Verfahren gegen einwartsgekehrte Wimpern. Allgem. Wr. med. Ztg., 1883, Nr. 49.