OPERATIONS UPON THE GLOBE. 44© usually about 2 mm. The patient, if conscious, is told to keep quiet even though a slight twinge of pain ensues, the iris is firmly, but not roughly, caught and withdrawn, all the time keeping in touch with the patient's mood and acts. As the points of the forceps emerge from the anterior chamber, the open scissors blades are slid astride them, with the radii of the cornea if a small excision is wanted, athwart them if a large one. When the pupillary border, together with a triangle of the uveal lining of the iris, appear outside the wound, the forceps are lifted sufficiently to allow the scissors blades plenty of room to close beneath, and, holding the scissors snug down upon the eye, the cut is made with one steady snip (Fig. 224). The eye is douched with warm boric or salt solution, the fixation for- ceps, if employed, is removed, and the lids closed to wait for a slight accumulation of aqueous. Or one may proceed at once, after the douching, to the Toilet of the Wound and Eye.—If it had been deemed best to use the fixation forceps for the operation proper, that instrument is retained for the toilet. The same may be said as to the blepharo- stat or retractor. However, if the patient is well behaved and the orbicularis lax, both blepharostat and fixation forceps may be dispensed with—the operator holding back the upper lid and the patient being made to look downward the while. If no portion of the iris is seen caught in the wound, the latter is patted with the flat of the wet spatula to cause the coloboma to appear opened out full within the anterior chamber; such spontaneous return of the iris to position having occurred, it only remains to free the incision from shreds of clotted blood and bits of pigment, to see that its lips are nicely in apposition, again douche the eye, and apply the dressing. Should the coloboma not appear at all or but one pillar thereof, the tip of the spatula is inserted at the extremities (or extremity, as the case may be) just far enough to poke the entangled portion from between the lips—not deep down into the anterior chamber (Fig. 225). This having been done, the wound is patted with the wet spatula to straighten out the pillars of the coloboma. If actual extrusion of a part of the iris is manifest, it can be put in place by a gentle slicing movement with the edge of the spatula,