OPERATIONS UPON THE CONJUNCTIVA. 33° mold the cul-de-sacs—glass or porcelain eye shells have long been employed. The trustiest weapon for the purpose would seem to be a properly fashioned plate of soft metal, as described, along with other means to the same end, in the next section. With a view to the prevention of a relapse, Scott1 everted the lid, put it on the stretch, and fixed its free border to the skin with the aid of fine silver sutures, keeping the eye occluded until the transplanted tissue took. 3. Cutaneous Grafts.—The transplantation of skin by the Le Fort-Wolfe method, to replace lost substance in the surgical treat- ment of symblepharon has, like that with mucous grafts, proven of little value. Their great thickness, and the excessive degeneration and shrinkage which they usually undergo, having necessitated their abandonment. Of late years their use has been confined mainly to the restoration of the cul-de-sacs in cases where the globe was absent. C. H. May,2 of New York, has reported the successful " transplantation of a large Wolff (Wolfe) graft, forming a new lining for the orbit and permitting the wearing of an artificial eye." The graft was wrapped around a porcelain support and the whole, placed in the new-made socket, where a few fine sutures united the edges of the piece with those of the conjunctiva. Epidermic grafts, on the other hand, afford the best known means of repair for the defect under consideration. They wrere used, to a limited extent, in symblepharon operations by v. Arlt, in small patches upon a granulating surface, after the manner of Reverdin. Later, more extensively and in broader pieces, by Eversbusctp and many others. Czermak^ gives an ingenious procedure for total symblepharon of the lower lid, founded on a method of epidermization by Evers- busch. The palpebral fissure is extended to the outer rim of the orbit by a horizontal incision with the scalpel. From the outer extremity of this another is made, down and in, along the orbito- palpebral furrow, till it reaches a point one and one-half centimeters below the inner canthus. The incision is deep enough to include the whole thickness of the lower lid, which latter is dissected up in 1 Lancet, July 31, 1897. 3 Arch, of Oph., vol. xxx. No. 5, 1901. 3 Munch, med. W^oclischr., 1887, Nr. 1 u. 2. 4 Aug. Operationen, 1893,p. 309.