HISTORICAL. 587 shape of a three-cornered steel file. While this particular pattern has not been perpetuated, it undoubtedly was the forerunner of the changes that have culminated in the type in general use at the present momnet. (For description of said type, see chapter on the Management of Instruments.) Thus, after wandering up and down the world for more than a century and a quarter, undergoing many vicissitudes, alternately nourished, starved, and forsaken, do we see the operation of extrac- tion enter into its rightful heritage in the land of its birth. For it was the notable contribution of De Wecker1 in 1S75, to the Paris Academy of Sciences, that sounded the knell of abaissement and reclination, and antisepsis gave the coup de grace. Previous to this there had never been a time when the latter procedures were not extensively practised and that, too, by the shining lights of ophthalmology. Over and over again would they drop extraction to take up the primitive method. To conclude this history, already too lengthy, here follows brief mention of a few other modes of making the keratotomy that were devised in the scant years prior to De Wecker's paper. About the year 1867, Adolph Weber,- of Darmstadt, had con- structed, for making the linear incision, a broad lance-knife, some- thing after the model of the old Santerelli knife of 1795. It differed from the modern wide iridectomy knife only in having a blade concavo- convex, in the transverse sense, with the convexity directed upward (Plate IX, No. 17). It was designed to make an incision similar to Graefe's modified linear, only less peripheral and downward (Fig. 259). It was probably deserving of a longer life. Kuchler's Incision.3—About the same time that Weber invented his knife, his colleague and fellow townsman, Kiichler, conceived the idea of applying to extraction an incision he had, in 1853, 1 Wecker, Comptes Rendus de l'Acadamie des Sciences, T. lxxx, p. 1 294. 2 Arch. f. Ophthal., xiii, p. 187. 3 Kiichler. Ueher die Querextraktion des Staars Memorahilien, xii, 1, 1867, and die Querextraktion des grauen Staars der Erwachsenen, Erlan- gen, V. 8, p. 37,~i868.