5«4 EXTRACTION OF CATARACT. with knife and scissors, his friend and colleague, George de la Faye, as early as 1752, suggested a narrow bistoury, curved on the flat, for making the entire flap at one cut (Plate IX, No. 1). This one- instrument idea was put into execution, about a year later, by Samuel Sharp, of London, though with a triangular knife of his own design (Plate IX, No. 7). There [were thus, in the very beginning, the three leading models of the corneal knife, viz., Daviel's, De laFaye's, and Sharp's. These are the precursors, of which all that have since been devised are but modifications. Daviel's (Plate IX, No. 5) was the parent of the trowel form (de Wenzel's, Weber's, etc.) of which the modern representative is the lance-keratome. Sharp's found its counterparts in the various half-dart forms (Beranger's, Pamard's, Himly's, and Jaeger's) whose latest survivor is the Beer's knife; while De la Faye's was the progenitor of the narrow, straight type now in general use, coming down through that of Poyet, Tenon, and v. Graefe. It must be remembered that the true Graefe Schmalmesser was of decidedly different pattern from that which still bears the name, and is the almost universally accepted form. A glance at Plate IX. No. 4 will at once make the difference apparent. The original Graefe blade was longer and broader, the edge and back were perfectly parallel up to within some three or four millimeters of the end, whence the blade was two-edged to the point, i.e., the tapering portion was two-edged. It is now more than fifty years since v. Graefe devised his so-called modified linear incision, though, to speak technically, it was not what its name implies, but a high or scleral and conjunctival flap of low arc. It began on either side, one and one-half to two milli- meters behind the sclero-corneal junction, and was carried upward and forward, with a slight curve, and ended with a small con- junctival flap, barely posterior to the junction. In conjunction he made a very broad and very peripheral iridectomy. Graefe suc- ceeded thus in making a perfectly coapting and quickly healing in- cision which greatly reduced the frequency of infection, but at the expense of other disasters which more than offset its advantages. Among these, on account of the proximity of the cut to the zonule and the ciliary body, were a large proportion of vitreous losses (about one in seven), and because of the tremendously peripheric