622 THE REMOVAL OF FOREIGN BODIES. A foreign body in the vitreous is a very grave affair, whatever its nature. Sooner or later, with but few exceptions, the sight is lost, and in the vast majority the eye itself is destroyed. Worse still, a large percentage of the instances of sympathetic ophthalmia have occurred in consequence of a foreign body in the vitreous of the fellow eye. Some sort of intervention, then, is the rule. After what manner proceed ? In this connection are offered the following indications for intervention and abstention, partly adapted from Coppez: 1. If the foreign body is voluminous and has penetrated with considerable force, apparently destroying the globe at once, and panophthalmitis is imminent, exenterate or enucleate immediately. 2. If the traumatism is moderate and the media are sufficiently clear to admit of seeing it, or it can be definitely located by any means, one might, by an ample meridional scleral incision, and with the aid of a suitable traction instrument—say a forceps, a spoon, or a hook—and guided by a mirror secured in front of the eye of the operator, essay to catch and withdraw it. 3. If the media have lost their transparency, thus shutting off any view of the interior of the eye, and other methods of localization prove negative, although there may be fair perception of light and the eye remains irritable—exenteration. 4. If there is no perception of light and it is known that there is a foreign body present, and the eye is sensitive or irritable, exenter- ation at once. 5. If an eye with a foreign body in the vitreous is perfectly quiet, particularly if some time has elapsed since it entered, it is probably well encysted. Here, whether the eye is hopelessly blind or not, intervention is not indicated. Instead, the patient is instructed to watch closely and to report any signs of disturbance in the eye to a competent oculist. This is particularly true of certain small particles that can be seen with the ophthalmoscope. 6. Not having succeeded in removing a foreign body and if the reaction is serious and the ultimate good of the eye is dispaired of, exenteration or enucleation, when possible, there and then. It is the proper thing in all the desperate cases to inform the patient that, in case the foreign body is not recovered, the removal of the eye or its contents might be the only other expedient, and to get