THE REMOVAL OF FOREIGN BODIES. 652 to the general good of the eye—can be avoided by going in just a little to one side of the metal; this ought to be done. In this manner the recti muscles, the trunks of the vorticose veins, the larger vessels of the retina, etc., may escape needless injury. All things else being equal, the best place for the incision is that recommended by Arlt— between the tendons of the externus and inferioris. The next best, between the latter and the interims. The tissues overlying the sclera are incised, meridionally, for a distance greater than is desired for the deeper cut. Retraction and stopping of the blood, as before. The scleral incision is made with a good Graefe knife, either by puncture and counterpuncture or by shallow perpendicular puncture, for one extremity, and slight sawing to complete. It should lie in the middle of the first opening and parallel with it. Its length, to be adequate, will usually be about one centimeter. The rest of the operation is carried out as described in the preceding paragraph. Operation with the Giant Magnet.—The greatest authority on the handling of this instrument is its inventor, Professor Haab, hence, most of the points here given are borrowed from him. The surgeon, assistant, and spectators put aside their watches to prevent damage to their mechanisms. The patient, with eye made ready, sits on a strong, firm stool, facing the working end of the magnet. There are certain advantages in having the instrument suspended in pivotal joints. Great store is set by having the patient in such a position that the head can be freely moved by the operator in every direction, so that he can give notice of sensations produced by the foreign body, and by having him conscious. Moreover, it is ap- propriate that the patient be suffered to start back when he is hurt by any movement of the foreign body, and get away from too strong a pull which might do harm. This he could not do were he re- cumbent. Therefore, both operating-table and narcosis are dis- pensed with. A drop of cocain may be instilled. If the patient is docile, neither speculum nor fixation forceps are used, as they would simply be in the way. Haab no longer employs a rheostat, but allows the current to go directly to the instrument, increasing and decreasing the force by advancing and retiring the subject's head, and making and breaking the current by means of a pedal. There can be no objection to the rheostat provided it does not materially