568 EXTRACTION OF CATARACT. in just such a case, and it is, perhaps, best to make at least one trial of this method before resorting to a more complex one. Posterior Discission.—Much has been said concerning this procedure, devised some years ago by Da Gama Pinto, of Lisbon. It consisted in incision of the membranous cataract from behind by a knife passed through the sclera. The method has had few supporters. It was advocated, however, at the Lucerne Con- gression in 1904 by no less a personage than De Lapersonne, suc- cessor to Panas, who then described his technic and a special knife for the operation. At the same meeting Da Gama Pinto himself stated that because of having observed two cases of detachment of the retina after the procedure, he had abandoned it, and had returned to the anterior method, using Knapp's knife-needle. Arrachement.—Having failed, recourse may be had to plucking out or tearing out {arrachement) of the membrane. This consists in making, iirst, a small moderately peripheral corneal incision with the lance-knife, inserting thereat a pair of capsule forceps and pulling out the thickened membrane; or making use of the small blunt hook and proceeding exactly as described in case of the con- genital cataract cited on page 557. Dilaceration has for its end the creation of an aperture permeable to the rays of light in the center of a cataractous pupil by rending and prying asunder the opposite halves of the obstruction. It is applicable to almost any of the thicker secondary cataracts, but peculiarly so to those very thick, tough, and adherent ones that some- times follow absorption or partial absorption of the lens due to severe injury; as also to those that come after operations for primary cataract that have been attended by accidents or succeeded by inflammatory reaction. The chief advantage of dilaceration over discission is that it obviates any injury to the ciliary processes from dragging. The method usually employed is that devised by Sir William Bowman,1 and is known as Bowman's Double Needle Operation. The instruments are lid speculum, fixation forceps, and two delicate sharp stop-needles. If possible, the pupil is dilated. The lids are propped open, the eye douched with warm boric acid solution, the globe steadied with the forceps, held in the left hand, and one 'Med. Times and Gazette, 1852.