SIMPLE PERI PI IKRAL CORNEAL FLAP EXTRACTION. 493 This must be differentiated from another sort of blackness, viz., presentation of vitreous. Pretty soon there is a separation of the black from the anterior lip of the cut, and the edge of the cataract rises between. Its appearance is quite characteristic—looking gray, of irregular surface, and may be likened to a bit of dirty ice that has been slightly thawed. It should be borne in mind that a too rapid delivery of the lens is harmful. The cataract having presented its edge in the incision, it gradually advances, spoons being held still and the same pressure kept up until, when the widest part of the lens is just passing out of the incision, the lower one is slid upward, the patient is warned not to squeeze when a bright light enters the eye, and the lens is so delivered as to cause as much as possible of any following cortex to come out with it (Fig. 238). This is accomplished by pausing just when the greatest diameter of the lens is engaged in the incision, and driving the cortex upward, collecting it in a mass about the lens, by gently stroking the cornea with the back of the spoon; then, with one final sweep, delivering nucleus and cortex together. Wilder, of Chicago, is the author of this valuable maneuver. When it is clear out, if there is thought to be any cortical remains left behind, they may be removed as follows: Removal of Cortex.—As this is a description of the simple extraction, it is assumed that the cataract is of a kind favorable to the operation. Hence, those portions that are stripped off in the delivery are supposed to be mainly opaque—visible. Moreover, the appearance of the cataract that has been removed, gives an idea as to about how much of it may have been left behind. The more complete it is in form, the less the residue. The consideration of transparent lens remains is found elsewhere (see page 535). The blepharostat may be taken away, the lids closed, and a pad of cotton, wet with boric acid solution, laid on them for a few minutes, while a certain amount of aqueous accumulates. This is supposed to favor the '.' milking" out of the lens remains. However, this necessitates either replacing the speculum, which is not always a safe procedure at this stage of the operation, or using the retractor or fingers to hold back the upper lid, exposing the instruments and incision to the cilia and to the contents of the Meibomian canals. Besides, the pupil would, in many instances, become much narrowed