ECTROPION. 2 Comptes'rendus de l'Acad. des Sciences, 1872. 3*4 under "Eye-dressings." It is well to fix the arm in a sling beneath the clothing, the better to guard against exposure of its wound, which is quite prone to infection. The graft is at first blanched, but at the end of twenty-four hours, if it has "taken," something like its normal tint is present. A little later—say on the second day—it becomes of a rosy hue. About the end of the third day begins the shedding of its epithelium, when it again appears whiter. After this process is completed the patch takes on a color that is, for a time, redder than that of the surrounding skin, but its ultimate color is a shade whiter than that. If the transplanted tissue or any part thereof perish, it may be from one of several causes, chief among which are gangrene (white, livid, or dry), secondary hemorrhage beneath, stitch-canal or super- ficial infection, phlegmon, and erysipelas. These are all accidents that either happen very early or not at all. A later sequel, coming sometimes many days after the graft has become viable, is a progress- ive ulceration. For sloughing, hemorrhage, and gangrene, little can be done. Infections are to be treated by removal of sutures, copious and frequent irrigations with mild antiseptic solutions used quite warm, etc. An excellent remedy for the ulceration alluded to is the painting of the raw surface with a 12% solution of silver nitrate, followed by thorough washing with warm salt solution. Epidermic and Dermo-epidermic Grafts.—The epidermization of parts denuded of skin was first conceived and accomplished by the distinguished surgeon, Reverdin,1 of Geneva. To assist and hasten the healing of certain indolent varicose ulcers, Reverdin cut, with a lancet, from the skin of a limb, epidermic flaps, which he subdivided into bits containing only a few square millimeters, and deposited them on the granulating surface in the form of small disseminated islands. It was demonstrated that the method stimu- lated the cicatrization in raw surfaces of limited extent, but was less efficacious for larger ones. To better meet the latter condition, Oilier2 made the grafts of considerable size—ten to fifteen millimeters long, by one to three millimeters wide—and purposely included a portion of the corium (dermo-epidermic graft). He carefully removed all cicatricial 1 Bull, de la Soc. de Chir., 1869.