EXTRACTION OF CATARACT. 4«4 i. The requisite manipulation and massage of the lids for the expression of the contents of the Meibomian ducts. . 2. The washing or scrubbing of the entire face, up to the hair and down to the neck, giving special attention to the cilia and lids, with sterile green soap and hot sterilized water. If the supercilia are long and thick, they are shaved; if not, merely lathered and scrubbed. It would seem an act of supererogation to make a rule of shaving the eyebrows when the lashes, be they ever so numerous and lengthy, are left intact. But to trim off the cilia, save those of the upper lid near the outer canthus, were a grave mistake, as the stubs of hairs would be a source of considerable irritation. To wash, or rather to thoroughly dampen the cilia with benzin is a most excellent preparatory measure, as the residue left on the hairs after the evaporation of the liquid makes an effective coating in which the bacteria are imprisoned. 3. The patient is put into a half-reclining position and the eye copiously irrigated with lukewarm boric acid solution, the lids being everted during a part of the time. Throughout all of these prep- arations, great care should be exercised to avoid undue violence. A jab of the thumb, knuckle, or scrub-brush could, in the eye of these senile subjects, lead to very unpleasant results; and in the use of the cotton sponges, or other implements, one must never touch the cornea, as the consequent removal of a patch of epithelium leaves a spot especially vulnerable to bacteria. 4. A thin sheet of absorbent cotton, wet with boric acid solution, is spread upon the closed lids on which is laid a pad of dry cotton. Dry cotton is never put next the eye in a dressing nor used to wipe the lids, because of the loose fibres entering the conjunctival sac. Over all, tied obliquely around the head, is applied a two and one-half inch wide strip of sterilized muslin, or netting, and in this dress the eye awaits the moment when the operation is to begin. When the patient is brought to the operating-table (and it is better that he be led, rather than carried or wheeled) a strong box or step is placed for him by which to mount. He is told to first sit upon the table at its middle, then to lie down, when the top of the head is placed even with the head of the table-top, lying on a thin, firm pillow.