ACCIDENTS, ETC., CONSECUTIVE TO EXTRACTION. 523 several days, or even weeks, after the operation. The delayed union is most likely the result of shreds of capsule or iris, particles of the lens, clots of blood, or portions of vitreous that lie in the cut and prevent union. It has been thought by many to be one of the causes of secondary glaucoma1 through entrance of the corneal epithelium into the anterior chamber, and there piling up in the angle of the iris; and by causing adhesions between iris and cornea, etc. It also leads to the grooving or guttering of the wound. When dis- covered the clanger from suppuration is usually passed, the thing needful being to keep both eyes carefully bandaged, to enjoin quiet and rest, to prevent prolapse of the iris, and, in most cases all will be well. The least movement of the globe causes a "working" of the iris toward the incision, and a crowding against the tra- beculum, or blocking of the iridic angle. When iridectomy has ac- companied the extraction, this working of the iris results in the swollowing up of the pillars of the coloboma by the inner lips of the corneal wound, and in adhesions between iris and cornea. The eye should be carefully inspected with a view to the possible discovery of the cause and the removal of the non-healing element. If no obstruction is detected and the leakage persists, a spatula may be passed through the wound with a slicing motion, provided the union has not progressed too far, and the eye copiously douched with warm boric solution. Iridectomy has often been resorted to with the effect of causing immediate closure. Just how this acts, I am not prepared to explain. Arlt thought that the constant outflow of aqueous in delayed union was a means of preventing suppuration, and rather welcomed the accident, as have others since. Striated Cornea, or as it has also been named, striped keratitis (Heymann), though it can hardly be called an inflammation, refers to a singular appearance presented by the cornea (noticeable at the first dressing) after certain extractions through an inadequate incision and one whose summit was rather far within the limbus. The distinguishing feature is a great number of fine gray lines—a true striation—extending downward varying distances from the cut. They have been thought by C. Hess to be wrinkles in the posterior layers of the cornea due to the stretching and rubbing of the flap incident to the violent delivery of the cataract. De Wecker 1 Metier, v. Graefe's Arch., lii 3, and Ophth. Review, Nov., 1901.