OPERATIVE M EASI"R KS. some unexplained cause, the majority come for treatment in the Very last stages of the disease. Second, as regards the minority who come in the early or middle stages, they are, for the most part, so circumstanced, either from being cared for in a charitable institu- tion, or from having nothing to call them home, that they are content to worry along with conservative measures. When it comes to a discussion of more radical steps the surgeon in charge, unlike our European confreres, in like situations, has precious little to say in the matter. The reason we do not make enucleation of the tarsus (isolated) oftener in these old cicatricial cases is, I fancy, because of the high state of efficiency to which the combination operations for trachomatous entropion and trichiasis have been brought in the United States. A New Method of Operating in Pannus. -Primrose." William, Glasgow. This writer describes a very simple operation which he has found satisfactory; it consists in causing an extravasation of blood into the subconjunctival tissue around the cornea, which by mechanical pressure and irritation sets up localized inflammation and thus causes obliteration of the vessels which vascularize the cornea. The point of a small sharp-pointed knife is passed through the conjunctiva 2 or 3 mm. from the cornea, made to puncture one of the large blood-vessels, and then withdrawn. The conjunctival wound should be as small as possible and oblique; in tin's way there is no external hemorrhage; the subconjunctival bleeding is arrested by pressure of the extravasated blood upon the vessel walls, and thus many of the smaller vessels are closed; this mechanical action is increased by the information of a coagulum, the fibrinous part of which shrinks. " Extravasated blood acts as an irritant, probably chemical as well as mechanical, so a non-infective inflammation is set up which re- sults in the absorption of the blood-clot. This process acts as a counterirritation to the inflammation of the corneal tissues and so tends to remove the seat of inflammation and the supply of blood from the diseased cornea to the clot, where the effects of the inflam- mation are comparatively trivial. By the time the blood-clot has disappeared the blood-vessels in the cornea affected by the operation have shriveled up and the cornea has regained much of its trans- 'The Lancet, April 21, n;o6. 24