ENTROPION. they early began to devise surgical means for the relief of trichiasis, which is the greatest evil of entropion. This form differs in another respect from functional entropion, viz., that it more generally concerns the upper lid. In dealing with entropion from trachoma, therefore, it is well to keep in view the manner of its production; in other words, the clinical characteristics of the disease which produces it, as constituting the rationale for its best and most progressive surgery. The features that have a special bearing may be stated thus: 1. Principal Seat.—The upper conjunctival fornix. 2. The intense photophobia, which is the earliest factor in the causation of entropion. Through it an abnormal development of the orbicularis ensues, especially of the palpebral or inner zone of the muscle which rema ns after the acute stages of the disease have passed. By its action the tension of the lids upon the globe becomes excessive, the friction is increased, and the protecting, sharp, inner angle, containing the musculus ciliaris of Riolani, disappears, the free border becomes whetted down, by absorption, to a feather edge, and the underhanging skin contains the lashes. 3. The atrophy of the entire conjunctival sac and the whole of the tarsi that are responsible for the shrinkage and distortion of these parts—a process that, once well under way, seems never to come to an end until death. Nos. 2 and 3 are, probab'y, both concerned in the bringing about of the varying degrees of ptosis that are so often associated with entropion. The levator gradually yields to the prolonged antagonism of the powerful orbicularis and to the obliteration of the upper fornix, through atrophy of the conjunctiva, and becomes permanently disabled. Incipient, or slight cicatricial entropion, when the cause of it is no longer active, can rarely be corrected by one of the opera- tions described for the functional kind. Here tissue has been destroyed that must usually be replaced. The first important operation of which there is a definite account is that described in the medical works of ^Etius, written in the sixth, and those of Paulus /Egineta, in the seventh century of the present era. Briefly, it was as follows: The free border was divided vertically, from canthus to canthus, into two leaves—the