SCISSORS. 83 best adapted to squint operations arc so small as to be only one grade heavier than the iris scissors described a little way back. They are lightly curved on the flat. To be more exact, the radius of the curve is 4 centimeters, and the bend is regular. This is a sharp enough curvature for any scissors—in fact, it is about what is proper for all of that character used in eye surgery. Yet one often sees them with a curve having a radius of only 3 centimeters. And, that the scissors may work smoothly and be easier kept in order, it is essential that the curve maintain about the same radius throughout. I say about the same, for it must be remembered that this cannot be mathematically true of curved scissors, as the curve of the inner blade must be a trifle greater than that of the outer. This is shown by the fact that when the blades are closed there is always a narrow, crescenti'c space between them. The blades of the strabismus scissors are about 27 mm. long, and 5 mm. wide at the base. From here they taper to the extremity, where the width of the two, with the scissors tightly closed, is one mm. and the combined extremity is nicely rounded. Broad, clumpy ends would better be rejected. In order to be strong enough, the base of the blade should be 1 1/2 mm. thick plus, and, at the end, fully 1/4 mm. Tin's form of scissors has a more extended range of application than any other eye instrument, and one should possess at least two pairs, though it were well to have the second pair just a shade heavier—not longer. Stevens' strabismus scissors are useful but not notably better, for the work for which they were designed, than are those just described; and it even seems that, by reason of the peculiar narrowing down of their extremities, they "buckle" easily and are difficult to maintain. Enucleation Scissors.—Having the last-named heavier scissors, a special pair, for cutting the optic nerve, are not really necessary. To sever it, together with the surrounding vessels and nerves, would put no strain on scissors of this strength. Yet it is perfectly fitting to get the extra pair. They should be but a trifle heavier than the stronger strabismus scissors. Their blades might be 3 centimeters in length, and their extremities a trifle broader. I have a pair that I purchased in Vienna, while a student there, the branches of which are 9 centimeters long and the blades 4 centimeters. The base of the blades is one centimeter in width. They were regularly sold