EXTRACTION OF THE LENS IN ITS CAPSULE. 545 Lens slowly broke up. About May 6th there was considerable swelling of lens and some pain. Eserin was instilled which seemed to relieve the symptoms, and the child was given a solution of the same to use at home. Saturday, May 8, T normal and' eye fairly quiet. Although under instructions to report often, and though she had been very faithful in her attendance at my office, I did not see her again until Wednesday, May 12, 1901. The eye had been very painful since Saturday evening (the 8th), the T was very high and the eye very red. Her mother had objected to her going out, on account of the condition of the eye. I at once made superior kera- totomy with keratome. A quantity of soft lens material followed the withdrawal of the instrument. A thin spatula was inserted to hold back the iris and to form a chute for the remaining masses, and by manipulation of a hard-rubber Graefe spoon on the anterior surface of the cornea, most of them came out. The iris was not disturbed. The eye immediately became comfortable, was bandaged, and, with twenty-four-hour dressings, after a few days, seemed to have re- covered. On examination of the field, however, it was found lacking on the nasal side. In spite of treatment the defect persisted and to-day it extends barely to the left side of the center. R. V. = 20/200 w + 2cx qo°. The vision of the left, with glasses, is now (Jan., 1904) 20/30 + 2, and she reads the finest print. Has been regularly in school for the past two years. I should never again, under such circumstances, allow the patient to stay at home, but should insist by all means upon the hospital. EXTRACTION OF THE LENS IN ITS CAPSULE. Beer, in Vienna, at the close of the 18th century, tried plunging the lance-knife, with which he made the corneal incision, into the lens, mobilizing the latter, completing the section, then expelling the lens by pression. Often, however, the cataract came out with the knife. The first recorded extractions of the cataract and capsule intact were made by Samuel Sh arp, of London, in I753- The famous Gottingen surgeon, August Gottlob Richter, took it up twenty years later, or about the year 1773. So, for one hundred and fifty years eye surgeons have striven for that ideal—a safe method 3.S