485 VXI Mill SIA. While instructing the patient during this performance of placing him upon the table, as indeed on all occasions, it should be clone in the gentlest, quietest, and most adroit manner, so as not to fluster him. We have too often seen these unfortunates victimized by brutal or thoughtless attendants, yea, by the surgeon himself, and as often observed the demoralizing effect. Storming, gesticulating, yanking, thumping, and even swearing at the patient seem to have their uses among our confreres of certain nationalities, judging from the frequency of their use; but I much doubt their wisdom in any country, most of all in our own, especially with our own people. They serve merely, in most instances, to rob the patient of whatever coolness he is possessed withal, and to lead to disagreeable com- plications, if not to disastrous consequences. The entire body, up to the head, is covered with a sterile sheet. Sterile towels are placed around the neck, over pillows and (a light one) over the mouth and nose. A linen cap, with drawstring, or a rubber cap, is put upon the head, covering all the hair, and the string securely tied. The Anesthesia.—I shall ever guard the pleasant remembrance of the wonder and gratitude excited in the medical world by Roller's report upon the local action of cocain in the autumn of 1883. I was then a student of ophthalmology in New York, and it was, of course, particularly the impression made upon the minds of the votaries of this branch of medicine to whom local anesthesia has proven the greatest boon that I refer. Notwithstanding the many other drugs similar in their action that have been brought forward, several of which I have tried, cocain is to-day, in my opinion, the most efficient and desirable. Cocainization.—Three or, at most, four drops of properly and freshly prepared 4% solution of cocain hydrobromate, instilled with two-minute intervals, should be sufficient for the thorough anesthesia of the eye. It will be borne in mind that too much cocain or the too prolonged use of it tends to hypotonicity of the globe, to corneal collapse, to hemorrhage, and to exfoliation of the corneal epithelium. Between drops, and throughout the entire operation, when nothing is being done to the eye, it should be kept closed, and the lids covered with a pad of cotton wet with warm boric-acid solution.