ECTROPION AND BLEPHAROPLASTY. one on the malar, the other in the orbit—are destroyed, and be- tween them is left a deep adherent cicatrix or cleft. To excise the depressed integument avails nothing, for the excavation is promptly repeated. For this class of cases, Tripier1 has given an ingenious surgical procedure. The sunken, scarred, soft parts are excised. On opposite sides of the opening, two ring flaps are fashioned, each somewhat greater in area than half that of the cavity, bases toward it. These are turned over, epithelial surfaces inward, i.e., looking toward the cavity, and their edges brought together. From the most available portion of the nearby skin is made a bridge flap, large enough to cover the entire defect, which is slid on, and the secondary defect closed by undermining and approximating the borders. The latter consists, of course, of the raw surfaces of the wing flaps plus those of the places from which they were taken. By this method is sought not only the righting of the lid, but also the filling up of the cleft. The only other alternative is to let the scar alone, return the lid to its normal position in the usual way— by incision parallel with its free border and dissection—and fill the gap with a flap or with a graft. Czermak advises that after operations necessitating a moderate loss of bone in the orbital rim, the plastic operation be not resorted to at once, as often such healing can be brought about as either to avoid it altogether or to require only a slight surgical procedure, such, for example, as the subcutaneous division of the adherent scar, followed by massage. The same author remarks that after the removal of an epithelioma or other malignant growth from the lids, the opening be left uncovered for a time, so that a recurrence may be early detected and promptly dealt with, arguing that, if hidden by the borrowed integument, it could attain inconvenient dimensions before being discovered. This might be well enough if the growth were situated deep in the inner angle, where it could readily extend into the lacrimal fossa or into the accessory sinuses of the nose. As a rule, it is better to make the plastic operation at the same sitting. 3. The Method by Cutaneous Grafts.—As applied to plastic surgery of the eyelids, this method is of recent date, yet, like that of 'Rec. d'opht., 1890, p. 129.