STERLIZATION OF INSTRUMENTS. 3 proceeding takes place immediately before the operation. When prepared by dry heat the instruments are put into some form of stove or oven, of which there are many efficient kinds on the market. Here they are exposed for twenty minutes, or longer, to a temperature of 3000 F. This is applicable to all kinds of instruments, even to those with ivory handles. In winter, or in very moist weather, the door of the oven is left open for a few moments after the heat is started, in order to prevent the quick corrosion of line edges and points that comes from condensation. Sterilizing in a flame is fatal to any instrument. By Moist Heat.—It is customary to put in this class sterilization by means of live steam, in an autoclave, under pressure. In reality, if carried out to the letter, this is a form of dry sterilization. In this country eye instruments are rarely subjected to this process. The method most in vogue, and most to be recommended is by boiling. Contrary to many adverse statements and comments, I believe this method the best for all kinds of eye instruments. That is, just as appropriate as any for the finer cutting implements. True the instruments must be manufactured with a view to being so treated. They must have metal handles—be all of metal, in fact, and the procedure must be conducted by one who knows and does full duty in the matter. I cannot do better than give a descrip- tion of it as practised in the Illinois Eye and Ear Infirmary. All the more delicate instruments are placed in a metal rack, provided with a handle and with a clamp which holds them securely, the points and edges of the sharp ones having been previously tested on the trial-kid. The rack projects beyond the extremities of the instruments so that they cannot be jammed against the boiler. There is a separate compartment in the boiler for this rack. The coarser and non-cutting articles are dropped carefully into another compartment. The boiler contains a solution of soda or borax, one to two parts per thousand. The presence of the salt serves to elevate the degree of ebullition and to restrain oxidation. The solution is perfect—i.e., there must be none of the salt undissolved. The instruments are not put in until the water reaches the boiling- point. Of course the boiling ceases the moment they are immersed. One waits, then, until it begins again before starting to time the sterilization. The time should not be less than ten minutes.