643 METHOD OF GUILLOZ. operator adjusts the indicating ball opposite the center of the cornea and at the definite and fixed distance from it. After the exposures are made and the plate developed, the determination of the situation of the foreign body is simply a question of reading from a key-plate and transcribing these readings to the chart." Mackensie Davidson secures equally accurate results in the localization of foreign bodies in the eyeball by means of special form of apparatus and the use of particles of fuse wire placed at points near the orbital margin. The planes of shadow of the foreign body at the two exposures and their point of crossing are indicated by means of threads. Method of Guilloz.—Two tubes, capable of separate adjustment, have their anticathodes on the same level. A sensitized plate, enveloped in black paper, is placed, horizontally, 50 centimeters below them. A fine wire fastened around the plate gives the projection of the line joining the anticathodes, and two metallic guide-marks, placed on this line, indicate the centers of emission. Three metallic guide-marks are glued about the orbital rim of the subject, one just external to the supraorbital notch, one directly below, and the third at the external rim. The subject lies with the side of the head which corresponds to the affected eye resting on the plate. The eye is immobilized by having the subject fix some object immediately in front of it—not in the median line. The two tubes are set in action, and the exposure made to last from two to four minutes. Thus are obtained double shadows, or biconic projections, i.e., of the.metallic markers, as also of the foreign body. These biconic projections are transformed either by a diagram or by calculation into right-angular lines that give the distance between the markers themselves and their distances from the foreign body. The distance between the markers being directly measurable, one thus obtains a verification of the result. Moreover, before beginning the calculations, or the drawing of the diagram, it is necessary to be assured that the lines joining the homologous points of the double images are parallel with the line left on the plate by the win- that has been stretched across it. Guilloz has demonstrated on the head of a cadaver that the method is exact to the fraction of a millimeter. The manner in which the head reposes on the plate does not have to be determined in accordance