400 OPERATIONS UPON THE GLOBE. The Influence of Tattooing of the Cornea on the Visual Acuity.—Dr. Nagoya,1 Mageda, Japan, reports 30 cases out of 58 in which he had splendid optical results with tattooing of semitransparent maculse of the cornea with India ink. On three plates he demonstrates by his photographic method very instruc- tively the impairment of vision by maculae of the cornea and the improvement by tattooing them. With the Zeiss lens "unar" and iris diaphragm of 15 mm. diameter he photographed a diploma. If one-half or the center of the anterior surface of the photographic lens was painted with paste, the photograph was indistinct; if the painted surface was then blackened with India ink the distinctness of the pictures remained uninfluenced. OPERATIONS UPON THE SCLERA. As Czermak quite rightly observes, with the exception of the suturing of traumatisms and a few minor operations, such as curettage, etc., all the operations upon the sclera are undertaken not because of any disease or defect of this tunic itself, but for the relief of those incident to one of the other coats or of the entire globe. They are, sclerotomy, anterior and posterior; excision (trephination); galvano-puncture, and suturing. SCLEROTOMY. Incision of the sclera, sclerotomia, is of two kinds—anterior and posterior—so named from the situation of the operation with reference to the iris and ciliary body. Anterior Sclerotomy.—The idea that the efficacy of the opera- tion of iridectomy for glaucoma was due, not so much to the excision of iris as to the scleral incision, seems to have occurred first to De Wecker.2 About the same time, Stellwag v. Carion, who had formed a similar opinion^ mentions that in a case of double glaucoma he made iridectomy upon one eye and merely the incision upon the other, and that the result was equally good in both. The first, however, to system- atically practise anterior sclerotomy for glaucoma was Quaglino,* who 1 Beitrage zur Augenheilkunde, 1905, Heft 64, p. 232. 2 Traite des maladies des veux. 1867. 3 Der Intraoculare Druck, Wein, 1868. 4 Annali di Ottala., 1871, p. 200.