CHAPTER X. OPERATIONS UPON THE GLOBE. FOREIGN BODIES IN THE CORNEA. About two-thirds of all the foreign bodies that enter the eye find lodgment in the cornea. Fortunately, most of them are tiny particles that strike with feeble momentum, such as bits of cinder, iron, emery, etc., and do not penetrate beyond Bowman's membrane, and, once located, their removal is simple. Whatever of difficulty attends the operation is, usually, that of finding the offender and keeping it in view. A particle so minute as to be invisible to the unaided eye can be the source of great and prolonged irritation. Such a foreign body is particularly hard to see when its color offers no contrast to that of the iris or pupil and when it has but recently entered the cornea. After resting in the same place a few days a tiny zone of gray infiltration surrounds it, which serves better to reveal its position. If the characteristic symptoms are present and careful inspection in bright daylight and with the use of convex lenses and focal illumination fails to show the foreign body, recourse is had to artificial light and the binocular loop. The patient is placed where a good artificial light is near on the side of the affected eye, almost any kind of light will do, but if it be an unground incandescent electric lamp, it were better to cover the bulb with a sheet of white tissue-paper. Again, oblique focal illumination by means of a 2- or 3dnch biconvex lens, of large diameter, while the operator wears, strapped to his head, a binocular loop. Search is made by directly concentrating the rays upon the epithelium, i.e., keeping the image of the lens as much out of the way as possible. If this fails, a broad image of the lens is thrown on to the cornea, and in the area of this reflection is sought a break that might indicate the mote. Specks of transparent substances, like glass or sand, will sometimes elude any form of seeking except the last. If the quest prove specially trying, a drop of 1% fluorescin solution put on 37i