OPERATIONS UPON THE EXTRINSIC MUSCLES. 172 favorite method with many ophthalmic surgeons. At the hands of the majority, the fixation forceps has given way to some form of tendon clamp, and the anchorage of the needles is deeper. Landolt,1 of Paris, modified Critchett's operation in several im- portant respects, chief among which was the omission of the central suture which he considered, and justly so, to be in the way of a positive and efficient advancement. Landolt2 thus described his method in 1897: "Conjunctival incision close to and parallel with the corneal limbus. No conjunctival bridge for a meridional suture is left, since the muscle then becomes inserted not a the corneal margin, but further back, corresponding to the conjunctival incision. The conjunctiva is not detached far beyond the insertion of the tendon. A small and somewhat flattened hook is passed under the muscle, either according to von Graefe's method or, better, after grasping the muscles with a pair of forcepss and cutting a small hole. In this manner the whole muscle is brought flat on the hook, whereas, in the first mode, the relaxed muscle may be- come folded lengthwise or the hook become entangled in Tenon's capsule or the muscle fibres. An assistant now draws the muscle forward and away from the globe with the hook, and the operator, with the squint forceps, grasps the muscle at a point 1/3 of its breadth from its margin, together with the surrounding connective tissue and Tenon's capsule, behind the hook, and then passes a fine curved needle through this entire fold. After this is done on both sides of the muscle, it is pulled up by the four threads and cut be- tween the threads and the hook. The tendinous stump is detached close to the eyeball. This is a small resection, which enhances the effect of the advancement in moderate degrees of strabismus. In simple insufficiency or small degrees of strabismus, the muscle is detached without resection. In strabismus of high degree, the sutures are introduced far behind the insertion for a more extensive resection. This done, the operator sees if the sutures are well applied. If they are not, he reapplies them, which is very easy, since the inferior surface of the muscle is now exposed. Then one needle is passed for a few mm. through the episcleral tissue, close to 1 Comptes rendus de ma clinique pour l'annee, 1878. 2 Knapp's Archives, vol. xxvi, No. 1. 3 Specially designed by Landolt for use on the ocular muscles, whose teeth are placed obliquely to the long axis of the instrument.