LID RETRACTORS. 77 introduced to bring out the lens be so constructed as to cause the minimum of displacement. It must, therefore, be made of wire that is as fine as is consistent with the force exerted, and the spread of the loop must not be needlessly wide. If the wire is stiff and strong—as it should be—its diameter need not be more than 1/3 mm. The greatest width of the older Graefe loop, was at least 6 mm., and its total length was 1 centimeter. Weber modified the loop by simply stretching it out, as it were, making it 4 mm. wide and 1 1/2 centimeters long, but leaving the same coarse wire. Snellen, while adopting Weber's loop, reduced the size of the wire. Next to the open sharp hook, this is the best instrument for ex- tracting lenses that cannot be expressed, and, in inexperienced hands, it is the very best. Snellen's modification of Weber's would be my choice. Lid Retractors (Plate VIII).—For three score years the retractor of Desmarres has stood alone. Its inventor called it an elevateur, because it was originally destined for the upper lid alone. The only change that has been made is the accentuation of the bend, i.e., in the present model the hook of the lid-holder is not so widely open. The trough of the older retractor measures 1 1/2 centimeters across the top; in the newer model it is only 1 centimeter. It is better to have two of these, one for each lid of adults; a larger for the upper lid, the length of the trough of the lid-holder measuring 16 to 17 mm., and a smaller for the lower lid, with trough only 12 to 13 mm. The smaller will also answer for the upper lid in cases of small children. Those with heavily gold-plated lid-holders and shanks are preferable, and their cost is not excessive. Fenes- trated retractors have no special advantages over the solid. It is always easy enough to turn the lids for inspection and treatment of the cornea. A very objectionable feature often noted in connection with the handled instruments, such as lance keratomes, cystomes, spoons, curets, squint hooks, and wire loops, is the extreme length of the shank. A length of 35 mm. in this part is not uncommon, and even 40 mm. has been observed. To hold these properly by the handle places the fingers too far from the working part, too far from the eye operated upon, and from the patient's face. Twenty-two to 25 mm. is about the desirable length.