i mr< i ps. No Its curved and forceps-like branches and its diminutive pivoted blades make il superior to Charriere's as regards manipulation. A fair-sized, not too peripheral, incision is required. This brings us to the Forceps —This group is composed of many classes, and of all the instruments comprising our selection, the greatest number going under one common name will be representatives of the said classes. As it is with the scissors, the great trend of instrument makers is to manufacture eye-forceps that are too bulky and clumsy, to make their springs too stiff, and to neglect properly tempering the steel, especially in those with the more delicate extremities. Fixation Forceps (Plate V).—There are various kinds of forceps used in ophthalmic surgery more or less for the purpose of steady- ing, or fixing, the parts. By way of distinction, therefore, the name is almost wholly restricted to that which is employed to immobilize the globe in operations that involve it or its external muscles. Among other kinds are the rat-tooth, mouse-tooth, advancement, and lid forceps, etc., so, as each of these is well named, we may, with propriety, restrict the term fixation forceps as stated. This instrument is made either with or without a catch for locking the jaws. The lockable kind is fast falling into disuse, especially for operations under local anesthesia, in which the globe is opened, because of their startling effect upon the patient in unsnapping the catch. In narcosis this objection does not hold, but it is some- times impossible to make the thing let go instantly, as, for example, when the virtreous is escaping. The catch is useful at times, however, therefore it is well to have one pair with, and one without it. In all respects save those referring to the locking device, the two instruments are alike. The best and most elegant forceps of all classes, to my notion, are those made in Paris, and the dimen- sions here given relate to these. The total length of the fixation forceps is ii centimeters and 3 mm., and the greatest breadth 8 mm. The articulating portion of the jaws is 4 mm. in extent, is provided with sharp, angular teeth that dovetail together, and is slightly concave to fit snugly against the sclera. Those in which the teeth cross each other, so as to project slightly from the jaws where the forceps is closed, are surer to hold. When the teeth are insignificant or worn down, the holding power is not to be depended