564 EXTRACTION OF CATARACT. when there has been inflammatory processes in connection with its formation, the addition of a certain amount of organized plastic material. Their density varies from that of a web so delicate as to be invisible by ordinary means to that of a mat so thick and compact as to exclude any but strong light from the depths of the eye; yet between these two extremes it is present, to a degree, in practically all eyes after removal of the lens. Even the extraction of the lens in its capsule, though it leads less often to secondary operations, does not do away with them altogether. When one considers the different views of leading eye surgeons as to the relative frequency of operable secondary cataract, one is at a loss to explain their great disparity. As Panas puts it, " Between Knapp, who advises discission in every case (after extraction), and Gayet, who intervenes only exceptionally, one must know how to choose a golden mean." This, however, is putting it rather strong, for Knapp acknowledges to making the operation in only 70% of cases. The degree of amblyopia produced by the after-cataract is what should determine whether or not a discission be made. Knapp does not operate if the visual acuity is above 20/ 50. Certainly, the secondary operation is called for if the vision is 20/70 or less in consequence of the membrane. As has already been stated, the principal cause of secondary cataract, at least of the kinds that call for operative interference, are abandoned lens masses that remain adherent to, or entangled in, the capsule after extraction, and are specially prone to follow such operations upon unripe cataracts. Add to this the other causes of inflammation, such as indiscriminate laceration of the capsule, bruising, tearing and incarceration of the iris, and we have not much further to seek for the origin of consecutive membranous cataract. Hypermature and sclerosed cataracts, although they sometimes present certain mechanical difficulties in delivery and are subject to the same inflammatory reactions, expose one less often to secondary cataract than the forms before alluded to. Here truly an ounce of prevention is better than a pound of cure. Having a knowl- edge of the conditions that are chiefly instrumental in the production of secondary cataract—as well as of the fact that, notwithstanding the greatest skill in making the primary operation and the utmost care in the after-treatment, either a considerable number of supple-