POSTERIOR SCLEROTOMY. 6 Seventh Internat. Oph. Congress, Heidelberg, 1888. cicatrix and to protect the scleral wound, Baudry1 recommends drawing the conjunctiva to one side before making the incision, so that the two wounds will not coincide. To prevent too rapid healing of the incision, Parinaud,2 after making the meridional incision, before withdrawing, gives to the blade a quarter turn and makes a V-shaped scleral wound. For the same reason, 'Persons on completing the usual incision, withdraws the knife and makes an equatorial incision, the whole wound thus taking the form of a T. Others, again, either as a curative or a tentative measure in glaucoma, have practised the sclerotomy without the retinotomy and the choroidotomy. Masselon,-* made a long, meridional incision of the sclera alone, by using an extremely narrow Graefe knife, passing it through by puncture and counterpuncture from before backward. Later, he added a very small equatorial incision. Simi,s and Galezowski,6 made similar incisions, the latter using for the purpose a knife of his own invention. The writer, in cases of glaucoma where the eye still has useful sight, and there is great tension, absence of anterior chamber, and, especially, if there is likelihood of expulsive choroidal hemorrhage from an iridectomy, would advise making the posterior sclerotomy between the internal and inferior rectus muscles. In this way, any resulting accident at the site of the puncture, within the globe, such as hemorrhage, detachment of the retina, edema, etc., are further removed from the macula. To favor greater precision, the over- lying membranes are first incised. They are then retracted by two Stevens squint hooks. After the sclerotomy, the membranes are carefully arranged, but no suturing is done. The indications for posterior sclerotomy are: i. (a) In chronic (simple) glaucoma, with approaching blindness, and other operative measures and forms of treatment have availed nothing. (b) In absolute glaucoma, for relief of pain, or for quieting the eye in cases where enucleation is not practicable. 1 Technique Operatoire, iqo2, p. 639. 2 Arch, d'opht., v, 1885, p. 180. 1 Midi, medical, du 8 oct., 1892. 4 Ann. d'ocul., t. xcv, p. 231, 1886. s Boll d'ocul., ix, 3, 1887.