/ "INDIAN" METHOD. 547 specially constructed blunt hook, w hich he called a zonulotomc, tore the zonule below, and expelled the lens. Delgado first mobil- ized the lens by entering a needle through the cornea, as if for discission, withdrew it, made a large peripheral (scleral) incision upward, iridectomy, and expulsion of cataract. In short, a great variety of ideas for division or rupture of the zonule have been put into practice. Yet any procedure whereby the zonule is torn or cut before efforts are made to express the lens is open to the serious objection that the vitreous is more likely to present itself at the wound in advance of the lens, thus rendering worse than useless further attempts to expel the cataract by external pressure. "INDIAN" METHOD. Of more than passing interest for the past 12 or 14 years has been the exploitation of extraction in the capsule, by extraocular manip- ulation, under the name of the "Indian method"; and in the same connection one is accustomed to see or to hear the name of Major Henry Smith, of Jullundur, Punjab, India. Herbert, in his most excellent work on Cataract Extraction, 1908, p. 252, says: "The work in India was begun by Mulroney, at Amritsar in the Punjab, in 1890. He made a downward section without iridectomy, and expelled the lens by manipulation. In 1803, 1,145 °f these operations were performed as Amritsar. Henry Smith, at Jullundur, also in the Punjab, adopted the method, but preferably with an upper section, and laterly with iridectomy. Obtaining better results, he has expanded the work greatly. Now the extractions at Jullun- dur number about three thousand per annum. According to Arnold Knapp, the operating season at Jullundur comprises only 6 weeks spring and autumn, about 1,000 extractions occurring in the spring and 2,000 in the fall—42 days for 2,000—or nearly 50 every day. In the year from May 31, 1Q04, to May 31, 1905, Smith extracted 2,616 cataracts in their capsules, and only 151 with capsulotomy. With this extraordinary experience he has clearly and authoritatively established expression as the correct method of delivering the lens in its capsule, and has shown that it is applicable to the large majority of senile cataracts." The operation, as performed by Major Smith, given in his own