124 OPERATIONS UPON THE APPENDAGES OF THE EYE. is the right lower punctum, the left thumb is placed midway of the lower lid, pressed down tight on the lower rim of the orbit to slightly evert the punctum and put it on the stretch toward the temple to resist the inward pull of the probe. This pressure by the thumb helps also to steady the patient's head. The patient is told to look upward, the probe, anointed with sterile vaselin, is inserted vertically, then immediately turned to the horizontal and pushed along the canaliculus till the dilatation is deemed sufficient and thus held for a few moments. When the progress of the cone becomes a little difficult, slight rocking of it on its long axis will aid its further entrance. If syringing or probing is to follow the dilata- tion, an assistant stands by, holding the lacrimal probe or syringe, as the case may be. When it is time to withdraw the dilator, this is resigned to the assistant, the operator takes the probe or syringe, places the tip of the canula at the punctum, and, still holding the lower lid down and out and patient looking steadily up, the as- sistant withdraws the dilator, and before the opening has time to contract, the canula or probe is introduced. Treatment of the lacrimal canal with dilator and syringe will often result in closure of the punctum within a very few hours because of the rawness and Assuring induced about its rim. To prevent thi > whenever practi- cable during the early period of handling a smooth stylet dipped in vaselin should be inserted a little way two or three times a day. Probing the lacrimal canal is resorted to mainly for ex- ploration and for rendering it patulous throughout. It should be seen to that the tip of the probe is nicely rounded—in no way sharp nor angular. The latter are common faults with small probes. Fig. 49. The probes most commonly employed are those devised by Sir Wm. Bowman nearly fifty years ago (Fig. 49). They consist of three double-ended instruments, i.e., six probes, made of silver, each bearing midway a shield to indicate the direction of any bend or curve that may be given to the probe while in use. The shield also bears the figures denoting the sizes. The diameters of those of to-day are graduated by one-half millimeter from one-half up to three millimeters.