542 EXTRACTION OF CATARACT. needed, particularly if narcosis is employed, to fix the globe, after the incision is made, leaving the operator free to use both hands in manipulating hook and scissors. Case 4. Example of Extraction of Large, Slightly Luxated, Tremulous Morgagnian Cataract. Angelucci's Fixation.— Robert Cummings, age 64, shoemaker. Admitted to the Illinois Charitable Eye and Ear Infirmary, October 1, 1903. Left eye be- came inflamed and sight impaired twelve years ago, and has since been subject to frequent attacks of pain and redness with gradual loss of vision. Lost sight of right eye six weeks or two months ago. Condition on admission: right eye slightly red; cataract of an even whiteness; iris molded to the lens, and both very tremulous; pupil responds to mydriatic. The lens is misplaced slightly inward. Anterior chamber rather deep, T normal, fair perception of light, field and projection faulty. Left eye dusky red, globe very soft. Myosis. Iris adherent to anterior capsule of lens, the latter being thick and white. Bare perception of light, with field of vision and projection lacking. Seeing that capsulotomy is out of the question in the extraction of a dislocated lens, the incision is followed immediately by the delivery of the lens with a traction instrument. The incision is sometimes best made with the Graefe knife, though occasionally with the keratome, and the operator must use his judgment, in view of the size and relation of the lens to its surroundings. For the extraction made in this case, the writer availed himself of the method of fixing the eye and of holding it open, devised by A. Angelucci.1 October 5, 1903. Preliminary iridectomy of right eye. Following the excision of the iris, notwithstanding the fact that the patient's behavior was the very best and nothing was pressing on the eye, a small quantity of thin vitreous flowed from the wound. After this, all went well and the eye was quiet by the 10th of the month. Through the large coloboma, the milk-white cataract could be seen extending very far out, i.e., the equator of the lens was not yet in view. The problem that now presented itself, was how to extract the cataract with promise of smallest loss of vitreous. Resolved to try the method of Angelucci. This is to hold the globe by seizing 1 Arch, di ott., vol. v, fasc. 3-4.