HI I PHAROS! \ I S. the shock and twisting consequent upon the unlocking are doubtless pernicious. Needle forceps without any form of lock or catch are, however, of doubtful value in any kind of eye surgery. The great objection being that they cannot be so deftly turned about in the hand to assume the various requisite positions without dropping the needle from their grasp. In order to obtain more freedom and ease of handling, one often shifts the hand back to the extremity of the handle. This is a movement of which the catchless forceps will not admit. Moreover, there are certain advantages in using a needle holder that can be conveniently handed to the operator read}' "loaded" by an attendant. A good model of the simpler forceps is shown in Fig. 41. Blepharostats 1 Plate VIII), or eye speculums, as they are popu- larly called, can be quickly disposed of. There is no end to their variety, but, since the appearance of the Mellinger speculum, most of the others have been relegated to the scrap-heap. Practically all of its predecessors had branches, of greater or less length, pivoted at one extremity, carrying lid holders of divers configuration at the other, and bearing, somewhere between the branches, a more or less complicated locking, or setting, device. As a result of the increasing divergence of the branches in the opening of these blepharostats, the tendency is to pry the lids farthest apart at the free end of the lid holders. Gaupillat dared even put pivoted lid holders on, to obviate this defect. Then, the catches, ratchets, screws, levers, and things with which the locks were operated—contrivances more cantankerous, especially at critical moments, it were difficult to imagine. Both these faults were done away with at once in the Mellinger instrument. Its branches remain parallel in all stages of separation, and its locking is accomplished in a truly automatic manner. The tighter the lids grip the holders, the more rigid the branches, yet no degree of gripping can interfere with instant closure of the blepharostat. Moreover, the lids can be forced apart by simply pressing upon the ends of the Tdes. The first of these blepharostats were unnecessarily heavy and big, and the length of the handle or lever portions of the branches was out of proportion to that of the arm portion. Some years ago the writer suggested the lengthening of the handles and the shortening of the arms, thus affording more leverage for the operator's fingers, and less for the