EXTRACTION OF CATARACT. 58° spatula, and incised the anterior capsule with a small curved, two- edged needle, loosened the cataract further, if need be, with the spatula, and delivered by external pressure upon the lower lid. Broken masses of the lens were laded out with a tiny elongated gold or silver scoop, the same that is in use by many for other purposes and by a few for the same to this day. If the iris got into the incision, it was returned to the anterior chamber by manipulation of the most approved at the present time. Let us note some of the phases through which the corneal section has passed and some of the forms and alterations that have charac- terized the cataract knife. Changes in the Incision.—When one contemplates how impor- tant is the role played by the primary section or opening of the globe, its position, form, and extent, in the operation of extraction, it is truly remarkable how near it still is in these respects to Daviel's conception. True, he made the corneal flap downward (excepting that for a short time, while in his last days, he experimented with a new triangular, or ogival flap, which he tried outward and also upward as well as downward) as did all of his successors, with but few exceptions, for more than a century. In 1784, Pierre Pamard, of Avignon, made an upward section. This surgeon had adopted Daviel's operation as early as 1758, and had striven earnestly to improve it. He broke away from tradition sufficiently to operate his patient lying. He used a lance-shaped knife of his own invention, as also a sharp hook with which to steady the eyeball. The elder Baron de Wenzel, in 1766, using his broad double-edge knife, made an upward and outward flap, and his son, Michel Jean Baptiste de Wenzel, about 1800, was one of the pioneers of the upward method. the spatula and, occasionally, after unusual wounding of the iris, the injured portion was excised. Fig. 248.— Daviel, 1750. It will be seen from the foregoing, there- fore, that, notwithstanding the lapse of 160 years, the best efforts of all of his successors and the many modifications and changes that have been suggested, aside from the relatively slight variations in technic, Daviel's operation was not essentially different from