OPERATIONS UPON THE LIDS. 220 was put through the point of the curved flap outlined by the first two incisions; it was tucked up into the pocket made by the undermining of the upper lip of the horizontal incision, the suture brought out through the skin beneath the supercilia and tied over cylinders of buckskin or other material. The remaining angular opening was closed by sutures, which completed a clever method for combining canthoplasty with correction of moderate ectropion of the lower lid. 3. Chalot (V.)1 makes an incision through the skin only, extending from the canthus outward one and one-half centimeters. This he crosses with a vertical skin incision, made flush with the canthus, the two forming a capital H , supine, against the canthus. The two angles he dissects or undermines, exposing a bridge of conjunc- tiva. This is incised above and below, turned outward, and sutured to the angle of the cutaneous incision. Tarsorrhaphy, or as it is sometimes termed, blepharorrhaphy, is an operation having for its object the occlusion of all or a portion (total tarsorrhaphy, or partial tarsorrhaphy) of the palpebral fissure. It is called external, median, or internal, respectively, as it concerns the corresponding division of the fissure. Internal tar- sorrhaphy is sometimes erroneously called median, after the German fashion, as, for example, in A. Duane's translation of Fuchs' text- book (D. Appleton & Co.), p. 727, 1892. Like canthoplasty, the end sought may be a permanent one (definite tarsorrhaphy) or temporary (provisional tarsorrhaphy). Some form of the operation is indicated in lagophthalmos (pa- ralysis of the seventh nerve with ectropion), in neuro-paralytic keratitis (paralysis of the fifth nerve), in reducible exophthalmos, as of Basedow's disease or the proptosis after injuries, in paraphimosis, and in certain surgery undertaken for the restoration of the lids and conjunctiva, to hold them in position during the healing process. Total tarsorrhaphy, literally speaking, either temporary or permanent, is not admissible, since in the first instance it means difficulty of reopening the outer canthus should this become desirable later, and in the second, retention of the secretions of the eye. A more or less extensive median operation is better in both instances. External tarsorrhaphy. Occlusion of the outer portion of 1 Trait. Elem. de Chir. et de Med., Paris, 1900, 3d edition, p. 711.