336 OPERATIONS UPON THE CONJUNCTIVA. Though it is wise to fix the graft to the plate by a few turns of thread in order to prevent it from slipping while being put into the socket. Upper, outer, and lower cul-de-sacs can all be restored by a single operation. Indeed, there is every good reason for doing whatever is needed all at one sitting, and none against it. If need be, the entire plate may be covered by the graft. In any case it is better to have a superfluity than a lack of tissue on the metal. Since writing most of the foregoing I have had the good fortune to restore perfectly the cul-de-sacs in a few cases of total symble- pharon where the eye was present, and to make artificial sockets that are entirely practical and satisfactory for the wearing of a prothesis in a number of others where enucleation had been per- formed and there had been complete obliteration of the conjunctival sac. In the first category the lead or block-tin plate, with and with- out the paraffin coating, has been employed, and with and without the opening for the cornea. In the second class, i.e., those in which the bulbus had been removed, plates of the same materials have been used with or without perforations for drainage and cleansing. Of the two metals, lead or block-tin, for the plate I prefer the last as being least affected by the fluids normally or artificially present in the eye. The great advantages of such plates are that they can be readily fashioned of any shape and size by means of the fingers and strong scissors, and perforations of suitable dimensions are easily made in them. Moreover, they can be bent by the fingers into forms similar to that of an ordinary artificial eye. In order, however, to make them evenly concavo-convex so that there will be no signs of crimping or ruffling around the edges, a more elaborate handling would be necessary. Fortunately, precision so great is not required. When it is to be fitted over the eyeball the thick- ness of the plate need not exceed one thrity-second of an inch, especially if the paraffin coating is put on. But when the newly formed cul-de-sac is intended for receiving and holding a prothesis, particularly one of the Snellen kind, or "reform eye," it should not only be deep and long, but extra wide as well, so that, in the process of cicatrization, it will still remain of fair capacity. Here, then, a thickness nearer one-sixteenth of an inch were better. This, heavily coated with paraffin, will make a plate that very closely