OPERATIONS UPON THE ORBIT. 6o8 the supraorbital nerve must be spared. The wound is gradually opened up into the cavity under the roof, and the flap thus formed is turned down over the palpebral fissure. In this way the writer has removed a dumb-bell cyst of unusual size, and a plexiform neuroma the size of a man's thumb—long axis fore and aft. These tumors reached back so far that in feeling with the little finger for their posterior attachments one could feel the sphenoid fissure. By pressing the contents of the orbit downward and forward the space is much increased in the vertical sense. It is obvious that it can be similarly increased in other positions by pressing away from the tumor, but hardly so much as from above. Technic.—This can only be given in a general sort of way. The incision, be it cutaneous or conjunctival, is carefully deepened and retracted until the tumor can be seen, or, at least, felt. It is loosened from its surroundings mainly with the blunt dissector whenever possible. When this is not practicable, the blunt-pointed scissors or the grooved hand-chisel is used, but always guided by the tip of the finger, being always sure of the nature of the tissue which is being divided. Of the scissors, those curved on the flat are the most suitable, and, in snipping, the concavity is kept next to the tumor, and only small Mies are taken. Moreover, the scissors should be small and delicate, so as not to take up unnecessary room. If the tumor is a cyst whose size or shape increases the difficulties, it may be drawn forward as far as possible and an incision made in the wall just long enough to allow of the contents being pressed out—or sufficient of the contents to facilitate the extirpation—when, before proceeding further, the cut is either closed tightly by stitching with strong silk or the sack is drawn forward at this point in a neck, around which a ligature is securely tied. In either instance, after the tying, the ends of thread are left long, to serve as handles by which to manage the tumor. In case of the more solid growths, a strong thread can be put deeply through the forward part to answer the same purpose. When using forceps for holding the mass, they should have broad jaws, and be provided with a lock, so that they may be handed to an assistant without risk of letting go their hold. A ligature, however, insures a firmer hold and is less in the way. Every sign of the tumor having been removed, the cavity is copiously irrigated with hot sublimate solution, about 1-2000. Whenever