154 OPERATIONS UPON THE APPENDAGES OF THE EYE. Extirpation of the lacrimal gland, taken all over, is an operation frequently performed, yet in the life of even the busiest ophthalmologist in general it is resorted to very rarely. True1 classifies the surgical measures here considered, epigrammatically, as follows: The extirpation of the whole gland is an operation of reserve (extremity). The extirpation of the palpebral gland is an operation de choix (option). The extirpation of the orbital gland is an operation de necessite. The indications, are neoplasms, chronic inflammations, de- generations, and persistent, external fistula of the gland, also annoy- ing epiphora remaining after the permanent obliteration of the lacrimal canal. Like extirpation of the sac, that of the gland is not a measure to be adopted lightly. Diseases and some benign tumors of this organ (as those from syphilis) are often amenable to other means of treatment. An external, or cutaneous, fistula, if it cannot be healed in the usual way, may sometimes be converted into an in- ternal or conjunctival one, when the former tract either disappears spontaneously or is easily dealt with by excision. Lastly, an epiphora that has been profuse before, and for a short time after extirpation of the lacrimal sac, will often cease altogether or become so scant as to cause no inconvenience. With the passing of the irritation from the affected drainage division of the apparatus, the overactivity of the secretive part subsides. Before proceeding to describe the surgery of the parts, permit a word as to their anatomy. The lacrimal gland is a double organ, consisting of a larger superior portion, the orbital gland, and a smaller inferior portion, the palpebral gland, or, as it has also been called, the accessory lacrimal gland and gland of Rosenmuller. The former, surrounded by a fibrous capsule, occupies a depres- sion in the bone, under the supero-temporal roof, or angle of the orbit. Situated above and to the outer side of the levator palpe- bral superioris tendon, its inner border almost touches the outer fibres of the superior rectus, and its outer comes near the upper fibres of the externus. In size and shape it is very like an average 1 Arch, d'opht., T. xiii, p. 280, 1893.