316 ECTROPION. water, rinsed with boric acid solution and thoroughly dried with gauze—not with cotton, on account of the loose fibres that cling to the parts. The thigh offers fewer difficulties to the cutting of the graft because of its slight convexity, and might be preferable to the patient as the site of the resulting scar. The chosen skin is put moderately upon the stretch, while with a keen, long-bladed razor, that has been -thoroughly boiled, enough of the epidermis is shaved off—if possible, in one place—to cover the entire defect. It greatly facilitates the severing of the graft to have both the razor and the skin perfectly dry. The blade is held flat and firm and the cutting is accomplished by a long, slow, sawing motion. When properly done, the blade of the razor can be seen through every part of the graft, and the resulting raw surface is thickly speckled over with tiny bleeding points that mark the spots where the tips of the more prominent papillae have been cut off. To cause the skin to present a flat surface to the razor I have profited by an ingenious suggestion of M. L. Harris, of Chicago, whereby a straight-edged object, such as the lid of a cigar-box, is dragged along in advance of the razor. The graft is at once laid on where needed, without previous dipping into boric or salt solution, and slid directly from the razor on to the defect. Here it is nicely spread out, after which any overlapping edges are trimmed with the scissors to fit. Few, if any, sutures are put in. The usual dressings, comprising a thin lamina of cotton, wet with hot, saturated solution of boric acid, next to the skin, a thick pad of dry cotton so built on as to prevent undue pressure on the graft, over this a generous piece of gold beater's skin, tin foil, or gutta-percha tissue, and over all the wet netting bandage, fastened on with flexible collodion. For fear of carrying syphilitic, or other infection, grafts ought never to be taken from another individual if they can be gotten from the patient. An effective method for the disposition and fixation of cutaneous grafts in operations for cicatricial ectropion is that of Hotz.1 In order to prevent the shrinkage of the graft from acting with full force upon the free border, he divides the wound area into two sections, one representing the bared surface of the lid proper and the other that beyond the lid, each of which he covers with a separate 1 Archives of Ophthalmology, vol. xxxii, No. 3, 1903.