132 OPERATIONS UPON THE APPENDAGES OF THE EYE. for thorough irrigation. One must be careful not to push the nozzle of the syringe too forcibly into the hollow cone of the canula for such treatment, as they cannot be readily separated. The Tansley attachment is best made with a light curve and with a shield or facet on the socket to indicate its direction. Every bent canula should have such a guide. To Syringe the Lacrimal Canal when the Punctum is Intact.—The positions of surgeon and subject are the same as for probing. The first step is dilatation with the conical stylet. The assistant stands ready with the loaded syringe fitted with one of the smallest canulas. The exchange of instruments is made as described under " Dilatation"; the operator lays the barrel of the syringe across the patient's nose so as to point the right-angled curve of the canula perpendicularly, or nearly so, at the punctum. The syringe is held between the first and second fingers of the right hand (for the right eye) placed beneath the ring on the barrel, while the thumb is ready on the piston. It is well to start with such a grasp of the syringe that it will not be necessary to make any change therein, on account of the position of the fingers or the direction of the canula, until it is emptied. As the stylet leaves the punctum, the tip of the canule is slid in, at the same time the whole instrument is elevated, watching that the point does not slip out and holding the lid slightly everted and stretched toward the temple throughout (Fig. 54). Now the patient is made to lean slightly forward, to pre- vent the injection from running into the throat, and the piston is pressed slowly and steadily down (Fig. 55). If there is a feeling of undue resistance to the descent of the piston, either there is stenosis of the canal or the opening of the canula is engaged in a fold of the lining membrane. It is unwise, even dangerous, then to force matters, as to do so one risks the rupture of the canal wall and driving the liquid, together with infective secretions, into the sur- rounding tissues and exciting suppurative cellulitis, with all its dire consequences. In this event it is best slightly to withdraw the tip and see that the guide is right before proceeding. Lacrimal Stenosis of Infants.—It is not uncommon to find epiphora and mucocele in the newly-born and in older infants. The obstruction is usually in the nasal duct itself or at its outlet into the lower meatus. Fortunately, these cases yield much more readily