CORNEAL FLAP EXTRACTION COMBINED WITH IRIDECTOMY. 527 by thin layers of cortex and that the disappearance of it was the result of the absorption of the latter. The more commonly accepted explanation of the phenomenon is that the light, entering the eye, has for a long time been filtered through a yellow medium—the amber-colored lens; and when, upon removal of this, white light is again admitted, it is the com- plement of the yellow, or the strongly contrasting blue, that pre- vails until the eye becomes accustomed to the change. The phe- nomenon soon disappears. Erythropsia, or red vision, is declared by some observers to be more common after extraction of senile cataract than blue vision. Such has not been my experience. Fuchs accounts for it in this connection, as follows: the aphakic eye is more disposed to it be- cause the lens has fluorescent properties and, moreover, in old people, is yellow. It, therefore, while present, prevents the entrance into the eye of great numbers of the rays of short vibrations at the violet end of the spectrum, and its absence, allowing the free entrance of these, soon causes, in these eyes long unused to such light, exhaustion of the retina, like snow-blindness. SIMPLE PERIPHERAL CORNEAL FLAP EXTRACTION COMBINED WITH IRIDECTOMY. In discussions of the relative merits of the simple and the com- bined operations for the extraction of cataract, the decision of the argument is supposed to rest upon one's answer to the question, "If your own eye were to be operated upon, which method would you choose ?" My reply would be, " It would depend upon the kind or stage of the cataract and upon what surgeon was called to make the operation." The ultimate success of the operation of extraction does not depend so much upon the particular mode that is adopted of the several in vogue, as might at a glance be supposed. It is a question, largely of personal equation. Ophthalmic surgeons characterized by the greatest aptitude in this most exacting of operations, as, for example, Knapp, with a record of four thousand extractions, most all prefer the simple method. They may have had their periods of disaffection in regard to it, but they have ended by coming back to it