5°6 EXTRACTION OF CATARACT. 12. Accident.—Air in the anterior chamber. After introducing Then, in making the counterpuncture, they have painfully in mind that illusive refraction of the cornea and aqueous, and make it too high up. Continuing, so very solicitous are they lest the iris "falls in front of the knife," that they steer far above it and again split the cornea on emerging. Thus is made a long "wound- canal" which greatly involves matters. To begin with, its inner opening is likely to be too narrow for the ready passage of the lens, while the long projecting nether lip forms a shelf which interferes with the work of attending to iris and cortex. These attenuated lips, moreover, impair the healing quality of the wound because they are, of necessity, poorly nourished—leading to gray infiltration, necrosis, "grooving," nests for bacteria, and, ultimately, broad and contracted cicatrices. 10. Accident.—Including with the section rather large, lateral, conjunctival flap. Preventive.—Observe the rules already given for the fixation of the globe, though if it should occur pay no attention to it so long as the incision is not too far back. It merely increases the chances of the following: n. Accident.—Bleeding into the Anterior Chamber. The presence of any considerable hemorrhage in the anterior chamber at this stage is objectionable because it obscures the field of sub- sequent operation. Preventive.—Avoid too large a conjunctival flap and too pro- longed cocain effect. Remedy.—Flood the eye gently with warm boric acid solution and stroke the cornea softly with the back of the Graefe spoon, applying, the while, a pointed cotton sponge to the incision, and the blood will usually come out. If necessary depress the posterior lip of the cut, or insert the tip of the spatula while stroking upward with the spoon. If this does not accomplish the removal of the blood, a flattened canula attached to a bulbous aspirator may be used. The cannula should be sterilized in the flame of a spirit lamp, as it is very difficult to sterilize a small-bored instrument by other methods. It is better surgery, however, to leave a little blood in the anterior chamber than resort to the cannula, for every additional instrument introduced into the eye adds to the danger of infection.