ECTROPION AND BLEPHAROPLASTY. average capacity in that line is enormous, to offset which its original size must be proportionately vast. This is the master key of the situation. Yet knowledge of, and heed to, this property do not always suffice, even when accompanied by the utmost precision in all other respects. Here is where persistence comes to the rescue. Some of the most gratifying results are obtained only after re- peated operations, each one as extended and thorough as its pre- decessor. According to the observation of C. Garre,1 the really useful part of the graft is limited to the deeper layers of the epidermis, and to transplant the corium, which is destined to undergo connective- tissue degeneration, merely retards the union of the Malpighian portion with the underlying vascular network and favors excessive ultimate contraction. As a further proof that the last word with regard to the dermic grafts has not been said—that there resides therein some subtle beneficent quality that will one day be regularly utilized—cases can be cited wherein this bit of borrowed skin has neither shrunken nor degenerated, but has regained its color, almost immediately after being transplanted, and has not changed so much as to even shed its epithelium. This has happened several times in my practice. But with our present knowledge, the Wolfe graft is ex- pected to shrink more than any of the other varieties, both primarily and secondarily. As a rough estimate, one might state the total contraction, from first to last, at something like 75%. Hence, in outlining the graft, the area inclosed would be about four times that of the defect to be covered. Panas2 states that one condition particularly favorable to success of all autoplasty is the implantation of the flap or graft in the midst, of a plaque of scar tissue. Thanks to the retractile nature of the cicatrix, an incision or opening made therein, instead of narrowing or shrinking, actually expands, even to the extent of acquiring double its first area. Nelaton, who first called attention to this important fact, also observed that in order to give the opening this quality the flap (or graft) should rest on normal tissue. Thus it comes about that in palpebral autoplasty after burns, for example, a flap, appar- 1 Beitrage z. klin. Chir., iv. 2 Maladies des Yeux, 1894, t. ii, p. 174.