351 PTERYGIUM. because they remain while, while the mucous grafts never lose their, redness. Besides, the latter do not lie so smoothly, but become bunchy from thickening, and from lateral contraction. It is of the utmost importance that the patient be instructed to clean the dead epithelium from the graft every day or two with warm boric acid solution and a cotton swab. The other cause of recurrence referred to under (d)—leaving a thick growth of episcleral tissue about the corneal margin—can be rendered inoperative by sera]ting away this growth very thor- oughly, leaving the sclera quite bare. Gifford,1 of Omaha, in an article on "Recurrent Pterygium," cites Knapp's well-remembered warning, viz., "Pterygia that have relapsed after one or several operations and have the aspect of a keloid scar should not be meddled with." Gifford then says, "The condition of this class of ]'»atients is so deplorable that it would be unfortunate if this verdict of so high an authority should be considered final. I have seen several of these cases, and my experience has led me to an entirely different opinion." And, further, "My experience indicates that all of these bad cases of recurrent pterygium can be cured if a large enough Thiersch flap or epithelial lip-flap is put on. In doing the operation it is impor- tant, in dissecting back the conjunctiva, to clean the cornea and sclera very thoroughly and to be sure that the flap is well attached to the globe before the lids are allowed to close. The device which I have adopted of fixing the globe in a position of abduction by means of a guy-thread put through the tendon of the external rectus and fastened to the skin outside the external canthus with collodionized gauze to prevent displacement of the flap may be necessary in some extreme cases. But if the flap is pressed down firmly with an absorbent cotton toothpick swab, slightly moistened, so as to bring its entire under-surface into close contact with the globe, and the lids are held open for three to five minutes thereafter, then both eyes kept closed with a rather firm bandage, witli plenty of cotton, for 48 hours, failures from displacement of the flap will be rare. In applying the latter it is sometimes necessary to tuck the edges in under the loosened conjunctiva, and I have once or twice protected 1 Ophthalmic Record, Jan., 1900.