PARA-OPERATIVE TECHNIC. 2 parts concerned in the proposed surgical measure. The second is applicable only to inanimate objects, such as instruments, articles used in making applications, the materials for dressings, etc. Obviously vital animal tissue cannot be subjected to this form of sterilization Therefore, in the use of purifying solutions upon it, one is inclined to make up in abundance what is lacking in strength. Preparation of the Hands and Forearms.—It is well to include the hands and arms of the patient as well as those of the operator and all of his aids in this process. They are first scrubbed with good soap, liquid or solid, and tepid water, by means of a brush that is not too stiff. The nails are trimmed, cleaned and scrubbed with the brush. The hands are then rinsed with pure warm water, using the brush. After drying on a sterile towel, they may now be anointed with a mixture of alcohol, glycerin, and one of the highly antiseptic essential oils, as that of cloves or of cinnamon, to be immediately followed by a good rubbing. This has the property of great penetration, entering into the ducts of the sweat and sebaceous glands, and permeating the deeper layers of epithelial masses. Lastly, they are washed lightly in sterile water and wiped perfectly dry on a sterile towel. Allowing the hands to dry spon- taneously is not so cleanly, as the moisture catches dust. The oft- repeated washing of the hands with solutions of irritating antisep- tics like sublimate, formalin, and carbolic acid has the effect of making them sore, and rough with dead epidermis, without in the least rendering them less infectious. A soap impregnated with a grinding material is excellent for hands that are inclined to be rough. Gloves.—The more important and exacting operations upon the eye are performed without the surgeon's fingers ever coming in contact with the field of operation. Hence, the wearing of rubber gloves on his part would be not only uncalled for, but when the extreme exactness of most opthalmic surgery is considered, positively unadvised. For all of his assistants, however, to wear them, were both prudent and desirable. Especially is this true as regards those who make and handle the cotton sponges, or thread, or any object that actually touches the site of operation. Sterilization of Instruments.—There are three methods more or less in use for this purpose, that by dry heat, that by moist heat, and that by strong antiseptics. It need hardly be said that this