INSTRUMENTS AND THEIR MANAGEMENT. 98 Cilia Forceps.—A scientifically wrought cilia forceps is not always to be had. Most of them are bad. Landolt says, "I can- not fancy what evil genius pursues this little instrument. It seems to be fated to bear a form that is neither graceful nor suited to its purpose. Time and again, and unceasingly, cilia forceps are fabricated that have jaws as big as shovels, heavy enough to crack nuts, and, in shape, suggestive of the hoofs of a horse placed base to base" (Plate V, No. 70). It is precisely this horse-foot construc- tion that constitutes the objection most frequently found in cilia forceps. That is to say, the area of the opposing surfaces of the jaws is too great or it reaches too far from the tip. Hence, in at- tempting to pull out a fine hair, through squeezing together the branches the proximal edge of the broad articulating facet acts as a fulcrum, to pry open the distal parts of the jaws, and the hair is let go. An effective cilia forceps would be about 85 mm. long, 8 mm. wide in the broadest places, and the branches should be of good thickness (Plate V, No. 69). The roughening for the fingers should be carried to within 1.5 cm. of the extremity of the jaws. The latter should not be more than 2 to 2.5 mm. wide, by 1/2 mm. deep, and should have their articulating surfaces elevated 1 mm. above the inner planes of the branches, and be perfect with respect to coaptation. To interpose a peg or pin between the branches in such a way that it will not permit of their being bent inward by too much pressure of the fingers is a good idea. Moderate pressure in epilation gives better results than does excessive. Advancement Forceps.—To those who feel the need of forceps for clamping and holding the tendon in squint operations, I would recommend Prince's advancement forceps. Their jaws are set at an angle, in the plane of the flat of the branches, consist of one spiked member and one correspondingly perforated one—or, in technical phraseology, of one male and one female member. For the rest, the instrument is identical with the locking fixation forceps. This is a simpler and more effective tendon-clamp than is that of De Wecker. Trachoma Forceps.—This subject is treated of in the chapter on the " Surgical Treatment of Trachoma." Lid Forceps and Clamps (Plate VI).—In this class are included not only all the forceps used for holding and fixing the lid, but also