OPERATIONS UPON THE GLOBE. 406 (c) In irritative primary or secondary glaucoma, with absence of anterior chamber, excessive tension, etc., either as a preliminary to iridectomy or as a last or only surgical resort for relief. 2. In detachment of the retina. 3. In hemophthalmia, especially where the blood is in con- siderable quantity and is causing high tension, or organization of the clot is feared. 4. In abscess of the vitreous, as in panophthalmitis, when one wishes to avoid enucleation or exenteration. 5. In cases of foreign bodies or cysticercus in the vitreous chamber, to give access for their removal. 6. In total ectasia of the sclera, in lieu of a more radical measure. Cyclodialysis.—Heine, first assistant in the clinic of Professor Uhthoff, of Breslau,1 actuated by the idea conveyed in the observa- tions of Fuchs and Axenfeld, relative to detachment of the choroid, following incisions affecting the sinus of the anterior chamber, has proposed a new operation for glaucoma. Fuchs had remarked upon the relative frequency of such detachment after all operations wherein the outer limits of the chamber were incised; and Axenfeld declared that it occurred in as many as 10% when the interference had been for glaucoma. In consequence, these clinicians were led to believe it possible that both the detachment and the beneficial results of the glaucoma operation were caused by the loosening of the choroid from the sclera incident to the making of the incision. Thereupon Heine imagined the surgical measure for glaucoma which he calls cyclodialysis, and which consists in an attempt to establish a lasting communication between the anterior chamber and the supra- choroidal space. Heine proceeded to try the measure upon 20 glaucomatous eyes that were totally blind or nearly so. These experiments demonstrated to his satisfaction that the effect of the procedure was to permanently reduce the tension, even in cases of absolute glaucoma. Briefly, the operation may be thus described: A triangular flap of conjunctiva 8 or 9 mm. high is fashioned, downward and outward, with its base left attached at the limbus. A suture is put into the apex and the flap turned down over the cornea. The episcleral tissue in the exposed triangle is scraped 1 Deutsche med. Woch., No. 21, p. 824.