334 OPERATIONS UPON THE CONJUNCTIVA. holes are made for the sutures, two at the outer and two at the inner angle of the plate, to correspond to the lid margin. A razor which is known to be in good condition is used for removing a thin layer of skin, about one-third wider and more than three times as long as the plate. In the method known as Thiersch's the trans- planted flap includes only the epidermis and superficial layer of the dermis. The graft is best taken from the inner surface of the arm, which is put on the stretch by firm pressure with the hand, and made flat by pressure with the razor while cutting. The graft is transferred at once to the plate, and folded over it with the raw surfaces external. Plate and graft are then pushed into the cul-de- sac, and sutured to the lid near its margin, tying them over small rolls of gauze. The lids may be sewed together and dressed with gauze, and bandaged in the usual way. Both eyes should be bandaged as long as the plate is in place, and absolute quiet main- tained. The plate is removed in four days, and more freedom /allowed the patient." This is essentially the method as generally employed in America. It will be observed that Woodruff speaks of having used plates of block tin. This is probably a cleaner metal for the purpose than is lead, less affected by the secretions of the eye and the fluids in the raw tissues, though in other respects there is no choice between them. Woodruff continues, "The particular advantages claimed for the use of the plate over any other method of skin grafting are: " i. It enables one to place the graft at once in the position wanted. "2. It holds it down in the very bottom of the artificial cul-de-sac until it has adhered, so that the raw surfaces of the lid and ball in no part can again unite with each other in this angle, and, even when the graft lives, gradually push it upward, as, in my experience, it does, unless the plate is used. "3. We secure, with the plate, accurate approximation over the whole extent of the graft, and rest." Weeks, of New York, at the Congress of Ophthalmology, Lucerne, 1904, gave a method for the restoration of the conjunctival cul-de- sacs that he declared to have been highly successful in cases of anophthalmos with obliteration of the socket. He believed that the procedure owed its efficacy solely to the fact that a fixed point of attachment was found for the graft in the periosteum at the rim