IRIDOTOMY. 419 if for couching (scleronyxis). Whether or not he made the opera- lion, is not known. It is known, however, that 17 years later, another English surgeon, and a pupil of Woolhouse, William Cheselden,1 put the idea of Woolhouse into practice for closure of the pupil in eyes where cataract had been depressed. Heuerman,2 of Copenhagen, changed the point of entrance to the cornea. Guerin.s and Janin,^ observing that the needle of Cheselden tore, rather than cut, the iris, first made a corneal incision, then made the iridotomy with small curved scissors, one blade of which was pointed and the other blunt. Guerin made a crucial incision in the iris, Janin, a bow-shaped. Maunior,? in cases of atresia of the pupil, with atrophy of the iris, thrust the pointed blade of the scissors behind the iris in two places, making a V-shaped incision, base peripheral. The inclosed piece was not excised, but merely al- lowed to retract. Bowman,6 of London, who was, from first to last, an advocate of iridotomy, invented scissors whose points served as a keratome, whereby the operation could be accomplished with a single instrument. The operation of iridectomy having, in the meantime, become popularized, it for a time largely superseded that of iridotomy. The latter was again brought forward by von Graefe, in 1869, as an efficient measure for those forlorn cases of closure of the pupil, atrophy of the iris, and flattening of the an- terior segment of the globe from iridocystitis following a cataract extraction. Yon Graefe at first employed the method of Heuer- mann. The matter was taken up with a will by ophthalmic sur- geons, having been specially pushed by Bowman and De Wecker. The last-mentioned brought to bear all his wonted ingenuity, skill, and industry, refining and elaborating the procedure until he not only evolved for it a system of technic that has remained standard, but devised also kindred measures and the rules governing them for cases not adapted to iridotomy. Conspicuous among these were his irito-ectomy and irito-dialysis. His labors in this line included the invention of several instruments, the most valuable of which is his forceps-scissors, which embodies the principle of the Liebreich 1 Philosoph. Transactions, 1728. 2 Abhandlungen v. d. Chir. ()perationen, Kopenhagen, 1 7 50. 3 Traite sur les mal. des yeux, Lyon, 1769. 4 Mem. et observations sur l'oeil, Lyon, 1772. s Mem. sur l'oper. de la pupille artif., 1812. 6 Med. Times and Gazette, 1852, p. 35.