METHOD OF SWEET. 633 that one of the indicating balls be opposite to the center of the cornea and at a known distance from it, and that both indicators are at a measured distance from each other. The plate-holder and in- dicators have been combined into a special apparatus which is bound to the side of the head, as shown in Fig. 270. The arrangements of the parts of this apparatus are such that the indicators, while freely adjustable, are always parallel to each other and to the plate, and the two balls are perpendicular to the plate and 15 cm. distance between their centers when the apparatus is in place. It is necessary that the patient rotate the eyeball to bring the ocular axis parallel with the plane of the photographic plate, and that the operator adjust the indica- tors so that the center ball is opposite to the center of the cornea. To determine the position of the foreign body in the eye, two circles are drawn repre- apparatussecu senting the horizontal and vertical sections of of head. (Hansel] and the normal adult eyeball, and upon these are marked the situation of the indicating balls at the times the radio- graphs are made. Lines are drawn through the shadow of each of the indicating balls on the two radiographs. On the negative made with the tube horizontal and parallel with the plane of the indicators, a measure- ment is made of the distance the shadow of the metallic body is above or below the shadow of each of the indicators. This distance is entered above or below the spots representing the two indicators on the diagram of the vertical section of the eyeball. Thus, in the radiograph (Fig. 280) the distance of the foreign body below each indicator (OS and NS) is entered below the spots A and B, front view, Fig. 281. A line drawn through the points C and D gives the direction of the X-rays at the time the shadow of the foreign body was cast upon the plate. Similar measurements of the distance the shadow of the foreign body is below the shadow of each of the indicators are made on the second negative, and these measurements are likewise entered below the points A and B, representing the two balls on the vertical sections of the eyeball. These measurements are AF and BF. A line Fig. 279.—Indicating