183 CAPSULAR ADVANCEMENT. safest. There is usually some superficial reaction, but in all my experience I have seen but a single case which promised trouble. This was that of a dispensary patient, who reported on the fourth day after the operation with septic tenonitis at the site of the in- cision. The process was promptly arrested before any damage resulted. My experience with the operation refers to a great number of cases, many of which I have had under observation for from five to twenty years, and I can affirm that the results have been most gratifying, both to patients and to operators. I would, therefore, confidently and heartily recommend it to the profession. The day of the tenotomy, pure and simple, as a rational remedy for the cure of strabismus is past. Its mangled victims have too long paraded their horrors, such as the paralyzed muscle, the secondary squint, the retracted caruncle, and the ghastly exophthalmos. 3. Capsular Advancement.—In the hope of doing away with the annoyance caused by the cutting out of the thread and the escape of the muscle in the advancement operation, at a time when it was the custom to completely denude the tendon, DeWecker1 proposed his advancement capsulaire, which, even at the hands of its inventor, enjoyed but an ephemeral existence. The idea was that, by advancing the adjacent check ligament or, in the plural, as the French put it, les ailerons capsulaires, or lateral capsular expan- sions of the tendon, the muscle would be supported and strengthened, and the end would be accomplished without touching the tendon. Here is how he proceeded: First, the excision of a semilunar or pyramidal-shaped piece of conjunctiva, base toward the cornea, over the insertion of the tendon, about 10 mm. high and 5 wide, and a corresponding portion of Tenon's capsule; then detached the tendon from its capsular sheath all around, undermined the con- junctiva up to and around the neighboring half of the cornea, and, lastly, drew the capsule forward and secured it by two sutures ar- ranged much as are the outer threads in the Critchett advancement, the difference being that the tendon was left untouched, as it was not expected to move, but merely to allow the capsule to slip forward over it. The effect was dosed by the dimensions given to the excised portions and the size of the bite of the thread in the capsule. De- Wecker practised making of this operation for several years. The 1 Annal d'oculist, t. xc, p. 188, 1883.