117 THE CARE OF INSTRUMENTS. latter is at once inserted. The thumb is then put into the remain- ing ring, and the tip of the index put back in its place on the pivot. The handling of iris and capsule forceps is peculiar in that it rests almost exclusively with the lingers (Fig 48). The pulps of index and medius are placed on one branch, one at either extremity of the roughened area, and the thumb in the middle of the other roughened area. The jaws are advanced into the an- terior chamber by a sort of pulling backward on the part of the index and a pushing for- for some fine work. The Care of Instruments.—First as to the receptacles in which they are kept or in which they are carried. A great deal has been said in ridicule and disparagement of the ornate cases, all lined with silk and velvet; covered with morocco, and garnished with the name of the owner in flourishes of gold, the idea being that they were unfit for holding surgical instruments because of one's inability to wash and scrub them; that they should be manufactured only of materials that will bear being boiled or immersed in powerful antiseptic solutions. Now, while it is true that those fancy things are somewhat out of harmony with the recognized principles under- lying modern surgery, it is, after all, really only a matter of taste or fashion whether one keeps his instruments in boxes bedecked with beautiful stuffs or in those of hard wood and metal unadorned. The box in neither case is of itself antiseptic, nor are the instru- ments presumed to be ready for use the moment they are taken from the box. If the decorated box will not bear soaking in strong antiseptic liquids, no more will the others. The silk and velvet and the leather can be washed clean with naphta and disinfected with formalin, and that is sufficient for any. ward on that of the me- dius, the thumb being, meanwhile, the pivot, so to speak, on which the instru- ment turns. In withdraw- ing the jaws, precisely the reverse occurs. This is one place where the mid- dle finger is called upon