OPERATIONS UPON THE GLOBE. 1 Annali di Ottal., ii, 1872, p. 155. 4°4 detachment of the retina. Later, Sichel, v. Arlt, and De Wecker resorted to it in the same connection. Punction of the sclera had been done also for general staphyloma of the globe. The first, however, to employ the operation for hydrophthalmus and glaucoma was William MacKenzie, of Glasgow, about the year 1830. He made the operation with a lance knife, choosing as the site about the same part of the sclera in which the old scleronyxis was made for couching. After piercing the vitreous, the knife was slightly turned to pry open the wound. It fell into disuse for the diseases in question, to be revived by de Luca,1 who, it seems, was ignorant of MacKenzie's use of it. De Luca made the incision, not only in blind eyes, to relieve pain, but in those that still possessed vision. The simplest method for posterior sclerotomy and the one com- monly chosen is as follows: The eye is cocainized. The patient is made to rotate the eye far up and in; the globe is steadied by grasping with fixation forceps the conjunctiva near the infero- temporal quadrant of the cornea. A point is sought between the tendons of the external and inferior rectus muscles and at least 15 millimeters back of the corneal limbus, that is free from the larger conjunctival and scleral vessels. Here a Graefe knife is inserted to the depth of 5 or 6 mm., perpendicular to the center of the globe, with its edge directed forward, and by a gentle sawing movement, a meridional incision, some 5 or 6 mm. in length is made. Before withdrawing the knife it is slightly turned on its axis to pry open the cut. A bleb of conjunctiva arising tells of the escape of the contents of the globe, and gives an idea as to the quantity. The knife is removed and the eye washed and bandaged. While the technic of the operation is simple, yet it is by no means a measure to be slighted. Among the things to be avoided are wounding of the larger blood-vessels of the conjunctiva, Tenon's capsule and sclera (vasa vorticosa), carrying the incision too far forward, i.e., into the ciliary body, pressure upon the globe after the incision is made, either by the surgeon with fixation forceps or by the patient with the orbicularis, and needless wounding of the vitreous. To avoid squeezing, the lids would better be held apart by an as- sistant with retractors. Modifications.—In order the more surely to obtain a filtration