GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS OF IRIDECTOMY. 435 holds good as regards the incision, the segment excised must not only be larger, all around, than the apparent size of the tumor, but must, in every instance, extend to the outer limits of the anterior chamber, no matter how diminutive nor how centrally placed the neoplasm. The same might be said concerning foreign bodies of a poisonous nature, such as copper, or those around which appear fungoid growths or pus. The primary incision will, on occasion, need to be extensive and sclerally placed. The fourth indication in this series—prolapse of the iris—necessi- tates iridectomy when the protruding membrane cannot be re- placed in its normal position, be it the result of disease, of trauma, or of an operation. The modes of dealing wit It this condition are elsewhere described. GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS RELATIVE TO THE DIFFERENT KINDS OF IRIDECTOMY. Models and management of the iridectomy instruments are treated of in special chapters as is also preparation of the eye. Mydriatics and Myotics.—As a rule, neither a mydriatic nor a myotic is greatly wanted in fitting the eye for an iridectomy, though there are exceptions. Some surgeons advise against mydriasis in every instance. It is certainly not admissible in cases characterized by increased intraocular tension and pre-existing mydriasis. Yet a dilated pupil is desirable in certain optic iridectomies; for exam]tie, where the border of the normal pupil is hidden by opacity of the cornea, for to have the sphincter in view aids precision and lessens risk as to the lens and in the handling of the iris forceps. It also has its advantages when the pupil is narrow, particularly if rigidity of the sphincter is suspected, to promote relaxation, if for nothing else. The less traction required to withdraw the iris, the less pain and movement on the patient's part. Any untoward dilation will always disappear with evacuation of the aqueous. To have an extremely wide-open pupil while making the corneal incision would be objectionable, for the following reasons: the bunched up iris would be more apt to get in the way of the point of the keratome, would be predisposed to follow the knife into the wound, and more difficult to properly seize with the forceps. Fortunately, this does