TENDON LENGTHENING. Now fee] along the outer surface of the capsule with closed, blunt scissors, and, back some 9 or 10 mm. (15 mm. if it w ere on the outer side) the instrument encounters a pretty firm resistance. This is the ligamentous expansion of the capsule. The scissors are opened, and this tissue is cut with short snips of the scissors. The same writer also gives instructions how to proceed in case the ligament is to be cut in the middle of its course or at its union with the periosteum of the orbit. At the same time, he strongly cautions against attempts at these operations by those who are not thoroughly versed in the anatomy of the parts. He might also have added that, like the single operation of strabotomy, the final result is problematical. Moreover, the danger of orbital cellulitis must be ever present. Parinaud' also gives a method for setting back the check ligament. Given a convergent squint, the eye is put in extreme abduction by forceps. A horizontal fold of conjunctiva is picked up over the in- sertion and cut athwart with the scissors so as to make a vertical incision 10 or 15 mm. long, and at the distance of about 7 mm. from the cornea. The conjunctiva is undermined back to the caruncle, the sheath of the tendon is exposed and the capsule cut along its upper borders. Through the opening thus made blunt scissors are thrust and the fascia is cut upward, curving a little backward, for a distance of 10 mm. The same is done below the muscle. The conjunctival wound is closed by suturing. A capsular advancement on the other side, and even tenotomy on the same side, may ac- company the procedure. In another place Parinaud2 recommends setting back the capsule in every case of convergent squint when spontaneous lessening of the deviation, once begun, had ceased to progress; especially in those where the wearing of glasses had caused the defect only partially to disappear. 7. Tendon Lengthening.—Sidney Stephenson, of London, according to an article in the Lancet of September 23, 1905, was the originator of this class of squint operations. Realizing the ex- tremely uncertain effect of simple tenotomy, it occurred to him that a more strictly scientific proceeding would be to lengthen the 1 Note a l'acadamie des sc., 14 avril, iSgo. 2 Bull, et mem. de la soc. franc, d'opht., p. 291, 1893. 13