PERITOMY AND PERIDECTOMY. 353 substitution of a simple circum-corneal incision for the excision. What Critchett really did, then, was to rehabilitate the old Arabian measure. The indications for peritomy and for peridectomy or syndectomy are the same, to wit, a pertinacious vascularity of the superficial portion of the cornea, whether consecutive to trachoma, interstitial keratitis, leucoma, or aught else. The measure has also been resorted to with marked success, especially in Great Britain, for episcleritis, iritis, herpes ophthalmicus, purulent conjunctivitis, and even for glaucomatous tension. Peritomy was further modified by Agnew, of New York, and was one of his favorite means of dealing with persistent pannus. Having been the fortunate observer of much of Agnew's brilliant work, the present writer was led to adopt the method, has employed it many times, and almost invariably with gratifying results. It may be thus described: Agnew's Method.—The eye is carefully cleaned and put under cocain anesthesia. The lids are held apart by the blepharostat. The globe is fixed and the conjunctiva manipulated with delicate mouse-tooth forceps. The conjunctiva is incised all the way around with a pair of small curved scissors whose points are slightly blunted, but whose cutting power, especially at the extremities of the blades, is absolutely irreproachable. It is advisable that the cut be as close to the limbus as possible, hence these qualities in the scissors are insisted upon. Now the mouse-tooth forceps are exchanged for the broad-jawed fixation forceps. While the eye is steadied with these, the severed conjunctiva is pushed backward, all around, to a distance of about live milli- meters, by means of a convex-edged scalpel. With this same instrument the episcleral tissue is also scraped away till the sclera is quite bare and, where practicable, the scrapings are excised. The larger trunks of the corneal vessels are gently scratched longi- tudinally with the point of the knife, or, what is perhaps better, each of them is touched where it crosses the limbus with a small, red hot, bulbous electrode. No clots of blood nor shreds of fibrin should be left about the field of operation. The eye is douched copiously with hot boric or hot salt solution, and the regulation monocular netting bandage is put on. The reaction is usually