OPERATIONS UPON THE GLOBE. 466 Glass Frost. Rubber .Pick. Celluloid Lang. Wire Laudman. Sponge Belt. Silk Peat Bourgeois. Catgut Bourgeois. Bone / Living \ La°Tance ^rom gluteal \ Decalcified J s 5 ■ region :.. .. Barraquier. Agar-agar Suker. Skin and adipose from Vaselin Rohmer. gluteal region Rollet. Gold Prince" Rabbit's eye ( Bradford. J \ Lagrange. Paraffin Brockaert. Paraffin is the latest aspirant for honors in this line. In an in- teresting article in Knapp's Archives for March, 1905, Spratt, of Minneapolis, reports 23 cases in which spheres of this kind were used, with only one known failure from extrusion. The idea is conveyed, however, that from first to last these cases had been under observation for a period of only seven months. The paraffin was of the melting-point of 60 degrees C. (140 degrees F.), made into balls about 17 mm. in diameter. The operation is as follows: After the pericorneal incision and dissection each of the rectus tendons is caught fast by a Halsted "mosquito" hemostat. One then proceeds to divide the tendons and enucleate in the usual way. The paraffin ball is placed in Tenon's capsule with common forceps. The tendons of the opposing muscles are stitched together over the paraffin by mattress sutures of chromicized catgut, Tenon's capsule and the conjunctiva are closed by purse-string sutures; the first of ordinary catgut and the second of silk. The writer of the article warns against spheres too large, and against undue tension upon the sutures. The advantages claimed for paraffin are: 1. It is non-irritating, hence least likely to be extruded. 2. The spheres can be made easily and are inexpensive. 3. No danger of being broken. 4. The paraffin adapts itself to the shape of the cavity, is soon surrounded by a fibrous capsule, and is firmly held in place by connective tissue down-growths. Abundant experience has demonstrated that the inorganic sub- stances, such as glass and metal, introduced in the cavity of Tenon are generally, sooner or later, eliminated, while those of organic or living tissue, thus separated from their natural environment, although grafting well in this location, unfortunately, in time, undergo so great a retraction that there remains of them but an