OPERATIVE MEASURES. sense, and are locked. An assistant, standing at the patient's head, takes the forceps and rotates them so as to still further turn the lid, the patient meanwhile being directed to look forcibly down- ward, thus bringing the fornix into view. The first incision, through conjunctiva only, is parallel with the convex border of the tarsus, and far enough back to include the diseased folds. The purplish muscle of Miiller is here to be avoided. Three sutures are now put through the posterior lip of the wound from the epithelial side, and it is undermined nearly to the globe, while making traction on the threads. The two forceps are now removed, the operator seizes the free border with a Blomer's forceps and the aid places a Jager spatula behind the inverted lid as a support for the second or tarsal incision. This begins at the inner and extends to the outer canthus, uniting the extremities of the first incision, and includes both con- junctiva and tarsus. It curves slightly toward the first incision so as to leave greater width of tarsus at the center. The widest part of the island thus surrounded should not be more than i 1/2 to 2 centimeters. The tarsal portion of the island is carefully dissected out with blunt-pointed scissors, hugging the outer surface of the tarsus, and avoiding the orbicularis and the muscle of Miiller. The lid is closed, the sutures drawn down straight, the point where each emerges from the free border is noted, the lid turned back, and the needles put through the remaining strip of tarsus at the points indi- cated, coming out on the conjunctival surface. The threads are tied in single knots, the lid again turned down, and the patient directed to open and close the eyes. If there be any puckering of the lid, it may be best to evert and make further dissection of the posterior flap before tying finally. Ends of thread an inch long are left to facilitate removal. Before the bandage is applied scopolamin is instilled and airol dusted on. The bandage is changed on the third day, and on the sixth day the sutures are removed and the bandage left off (Figs. 210 and 211). The author has made a number of these combined excisions at the Illinois Eye Infirmary during the past three or four years, and would suggest certain modifications of the technic as just given. First, with regard to the incision through the tarsus. Instead of making it perpendicular to the plane of the tarsus, he would make it slanting upward, as shown in Fig. 210, where the heavy black