48o EXTRACTION OF CATARACT. corneas—the result of punctate keratitis which afterward extended to the whole thickness. Ten years ago I made in this case upward iridectomies, then extractions ,and, lastly, discissions, and the patient has good vision in both eyes to-day—even reads and sews without difficulty. Condition of the Lens Itself.—It is highly to be recommended that, as nearly as possible, the exact character of the cataract be ascertained, for on this often depends the surgical methods we are to pursue in dealing with it. If there is much clear, soft cortex an iridectomy is indicated, or if the anterior chamber be very shallow and the opacity be an even gray—not white—throughout, we may suspect a large sclerosed cataract which will necessitate a large corneal section. As to this point we are usually put in the position where we have but little to choose; as, aside from the fact that a certain number of cases on first presentation are those of incipient cataract, the great majority, particularly in hospital practice, have already reached or passed the requisite stage of ripeness. The circumstances under which the patient comes to us make it often the choice of two evils—to operate on an unripe cataract or to send him many miles to his home. Again, the very form of cataract that we prefer to let alone till mature, viz., the so-called nuclear, with transparent cortex, is precisely the kind that causes greatest blindness when in this unready state. Preliminary iridectomy is almost a necessity before the extraction of all highly immature cataracts. In a large charitable institution like the Illinois Eye and Ear Infirmary, for example, where indigent cataract patients are sent to us, at the public expense, from remote parts of the State, we operate on many a cataract that in private practice, or belonging to anyone residing at convenient distance, would be allowed to grow more opaque. Yet, on the whole, considering the class of patients we have to deal with, I think the results we obtain in this hospital will compare favorably with any. It is not wise, on general principles, to extract the lens from an eye possessed of vision, for example, exceeding one-fortieth of the normal, yet with double cataract and no better vision in either eye, even such a restriction seems too great, in view of the probable results under modern methods. The mere fact that a senile lens