555 CorCHINC OK HI l5RI SSIOX. fresh impulse to its popularity by so modifying the operation as to turn the cataract downward and outward, so that it lay with its anterior surface inward and its posterior against the infero-temporal portion of the ciliary body (true rcclination), instead of pushing it straight down into the vitreous (true depression), as his predecessors had done. The last of the great champions were Sichel and Desmarres, beside many others of lesser fame. Not because they lacked personal knowledge or experience with the discovery of Daviel— for they had, for the most part, labored faithfully and perseveringly to give it the precedence it deserved—but for the reason that the immediate results of the procedure were disheartening. They naturally returned to the method by which they were spared the oft-recurring visitations of suppuration—that incubus of the earlier eye-surgeons—notwithstanding the fact that the ultimate benefits were even then vastly in favor of extraction. For, sooner or later, most of the lenses dislocated into the vitreous caused serious dis- turbance, detachment of the retina, various forms of uveitis, etc., or the sight restored by the operation was subsequently lost again by the reappearance of the cataract at its normal site—not an in- frequent event. Since, in the opinion of certain ophthalmic surgeons, the operation of reclination, or couching, is not altogether obsolete, a description of the most recent mode of performing it—that of Scarpa—may not be amiss. The following instruments are required; blepharostat, fixation forceps and a stop-needle similar to Bowman's, only slightly curved on the flat, the distance from the point to the shoulder, or stops being about one centimeter. According to usage, the surgeon and patient (the latter with pupil dilated) sit facing each other, though there is no good reason why an operating-table should not be used. The lids are propped open, the globe is steadied in the usual way, and the needle, with its convexity directed upward, is entered at the temporal side, four millimeters back of the sclero- corneal junction, and very slightly below the horizontal meridian. Thus, the long axis of the wound is placed in a meridian of longitude, insuring the minimum of traumatism to the ciliary zone. As soon as the spear portion has entered completely the posterior chamber,