CORNEAL FLAP EXTRACTION COMBINED WITH IRIDECTOMY. 529 the latter, straight back to the pupil again. This form is now more specifically identified with iridectomy for glaucoma, for which it is the most effective. Recently the prevailing choice, excepting, of course, in those cases complicated by glaucoma, is for the one- snip section, such as has been for a long time the kind made for optic coloboma. It obviates as effectually the difficulties of the extraction and more effectually some of the dangers. It is simpler and quicker in the performance, less painful, causes less deformity, and its coloboma, being free from the long, flabby pillars, with their sharp corners that characterize the keyhole pupil, the risks of pro- lapse and incarceration of the iris are not so great. The size of the piece of iris excised need not, as a rule, be large. All that is requistite, usually, is the resection of a small bit of the sphincter alone, but its exact dimensions must be left to the judg- ment of the operator. As to the manner of procedure, it does not differ materially from that of the same operation made for other purposes (see chapter on Optic Iridectomy). When one expects before making the corneal incision to cut the iris also, leaving of a conjunctival hap is not so imperative, though it is desirable in any event. The idea of making the iridectomy some weeks previous to the extraction, occurred first to Mooren, of Berlin, in 1862. He applied it to all the cases of cataract that seemed to demand iridec- tomy, whereas we of to-day limit it to those only where the com- bined operation seems inexpedient, such as the beginning of progress- ive cataract in feeble subjects and in eyes characterized by posterior synechia and glaucoma. It is also applicable to most of those enumerated as suitable for the combined operation. The same methods are pursued, excepting, of course, that the incision is made with the lance instead of the Graefe knife. The shape and extent of the coloboma are regulated as in the combined extraction. Be it understood, however, that in a case of glaucoma associated with cataract, a long postscleral section and a broad peripheral pre- liminary iridectomy are de rigueur. The writer has had no experience with buttonholing the iris, as practised by a few opthalmic surgeons and which is treated of in the chapter on Accidents Consecutive to Extraction. This consists in picking up a small fold midway of the iris zone and cutting out 34