EXTRACTION OF CATARACT. 1 Norris and Oliver System, p. 800. Remedy.—Immediately either take a fresh instrument or cause that one to be again disinfected. Or, if the accident happens while using, as knife, for instance, try to keep the portion contaminated from entering the eye. 4. Accident.—The serio-comic dilemma of finding that the knife- blade has been inserted upside.down. Preventive.—Obvious. Remedy.—Knapp1 advises that, without withdrawing, the knife be simply turned 1800 on its long axis, thus reversing the position and continuing the section. He states that the accident has happened to him four times and that there has never been any reaction seen from it. He doesn't say that he resorted to this redress in each instance, but such is the inference. Now, every man is not a Knapp, and the writer would, in view of this accident, counsel postponement of the operation for at least twenty-four to forty-eight hours. Given a deft hand and a very narrow knife, this feat of turning the blade might be attempted but, having accomplished it, if the anterior chamber is found empty, it were better to desist for the moment from pushing the operation further. 5. Accident.—Engaging the point of the knife in the iris just after making the puncture. Preventive.—Depress the handle immediately the point enters the anterior chamber, so as to clear the iris. Remedy.—Withdraw the knife, without changing its direction, just enough to release the point, and continue. 6. Accident.—Starting the counter puncture too far back or too far forwa rd. Preventive.—Better light, and bearing in mind that owing to the refractive media through which we see the blade, it seems to be nearer to us, or higher, than it really is. Remedy.—S ame as for No. 5* 7. Accident.—Pressing the jaws of the fixation forceps into the globe during the making of the qut, forcing out the aqueous and causing premature emptying of the anterior chamber. Preventive.—Rest the little finger of the hand that holds the forceps firmly on the patient's nose or cheek and do not altogether lose sight of what that hand is doing, else not only is this accident