bowman's operation. 137 the left. The rest of the method is the same as for the right eye, save, of course, that the inclination of the cut is away from the operator. In making the operation upon either of the upper canaliculi, as also in dilating and probing them, the surgeon's position, be he ambidextrous or not, is in front of the patient, for both eyes. It goes without saying that the inclination of the blade or the position of the slit is here backward and downward. Bandaging is not required after slitting of the canaliculus. The subsequent care of the case comprises merely bathing with very hot water or antiseptic washes and the appropriate use of sound or syringe. Removal of a triangular section of the posterior wall of the lower canaliculus, as first practised by Critchett, of London, for eversion of the punctum, with epiphora, seems to have fallen into disuse. This consisted, first, in slitting up the canaliculus as far as the caruncle, in the usual way. Second, a vertical snip with scissors, extending clown two or three millimeters from the punctum, on the inner aspect of the lid. Third, the joining of this with the inner end of the first incision, or the resection of the triangle thus formed. The idea was that the secretions of the eye would thus be provided with an open drain. In effect, it proved to be a delusion, as lacrimal drainage is not accomplished through gravity. Moreover, such a piling up of conjunctival growth took place about the site of the operation as to effectually block any sort of outflow. Arlt pro- duced a form of epicanthus to relieve epiphora in cases of eversion of punctum where the orbicularis was paretic. In closing this subject, there is one injunction the observance of which cannot be too strongly insisted upon, viz., as a rule, avoid the use of the syringe immediately after that of the probe or knife. This is to prevent the unpleasant or serious results of forcing the injected liquid into the cellular tissue. This rule may be departed from in cases that are familiar because of a number of previous probings where the passing of the instrument has been such as to insure freedom from traumatism, but the syringing should be done very cautiously. When probe and syringe are both to be employed in a given case, if practicable, the probe should follow the syringe. If not, it were better to let at least twenty-four hours elapse be- tween the two acts.