189 TENDON SHORTENING. needle of one suture is drawn through close to the upper border, carried beneath to a point slightly below the center, then up through. Now, a needle of the second thread is drawn through near the lower border, carried up under, and out just above the center. Each suture is tied, thus ligating the entire tendon. The four threads are held by an assistant, the tendon is cut at the posterior nick, the stump is lifted by forceps, the four needles passed through it from the scleral side, close up to the insertion, the tendon is cut off at the other nick, thus completing the resection, the sutures are drawn so as to butt one end of tendon against the other, and tied. The outer wound is closed with silk thread. Another such shortening measure is the "Myectomy" of L. Miiller, the main points of which are thus: The operation is made under narcosis to relax the muscle. Bilateral tenotomy of the Shicl- muskel. Vertical incision of conjunctiva 4 mm. from the cornea, and the wound well retracted to lay bare the tendon. The latter was lifted on the hook at a distance behind the insertion corresponding to the length of the piece to be excised, which, in divergent squint, this surgeon states, would be from 6 to 8 mm., and for convergent, somewhat less The proposed section is so measured on the tendon by means of small compasses, and so marked as to leave a 2 mm. stump at the insertion. Close behind the piece to be resected are placed the sutures of rather coarse silk, one near the upper, the other near the lower border, each including about 1/4 of the width of the tendon, and tied. The ends bearing the needles are cut off close to the knots. While an aid holds the threads, the tendon is cut at the distal mark, and two other silk threads are put into the stump close to the sclera and in the same way as were the other two, cutting off the needle ends. The tendon is now cut at the proximal mark and the opposite ends of the thread are tied in surgeons' knots, at the same time approximating the ends of tendon. The outer wound is closed by five sutures, and the buried threads are left in for all time. In comparing resection with advancement, Miiller affirms that the latter finds no analogue in surgery, and is a very imperfect procedure, for the reason that one does not know how much the yielding conjunctiva will, during the first 24 hours, permit the muscle to retract. Consequently, one must always aim for a primary