KINDS OF IRIDECTOMY AND THEIR INDICATIONS. 431 been iridocyclitis, glaucoma, and sympathetic ophthalmia. Hence, their respective vogues were short-lived. As a safe substitute for them, in the year 1871, Pope,1 brought forward his method of making an optic iridectomy without dividing the sphincter of the pupil. With a very narrow keratome he entered the extreme periphery of the anterior chamber by way of an almost scleral wound, allowed the aqueous to drain slowly to avoid a prolapse, seized with line, slightly curved forceps, the iris in the center of the exact spot to be excised, and withdraw, taking care that the pupil- lary border came not into the incision. Then, with small curved scissors, just as much was cut off as was held by the forceps. If a round coloboma was wanted, the scissors blades were held at right angle to the direction of the corneal wound; if an oval section was preferred, the blades were held parallel with the wound. The remaining portion of the pulled-out iris was gently replaced. Such an artificial pupil has certain advantages—among them being its small size, its slight disfigurement, and the little tendency it has to widen or to be drawn toward the root of the iris. Singular, that the procedure has so few advocates. One reason is, doubtless, the popular belief that double vision—polyopia—and a double pupil—poly cor ia—go together. Such, however, is not likely to be the case even when the normal pupil is unobstructed, much less so when it is obscured, as is precisely the condition for which an optic iridectomy is made. Another reason for the relative rarity of the measure is the difficulties that attend its proper execution. These, however, should not stand in the way. If, for instance, the sphincter should be inadvertently embraced in the section, the result amounts only to an ordinary iridectomy. If merely a thread-like bridge at the very border of the pupil be left behind, it amounts to the same, since it will most probably atrophy and disappear. The really substantial difficulty lies in the making of the ideal, perfectly peripheral, primary incision, which will be described under the "Technic of Iridectomy." I have several times of late, had recourse to this form of iridectomy when a highly eccentric pupil was demanded, and commend it most heartily. The common practice of introducing a blunt hook or other instru- ment to get rid of a pupillary bridge accidentally left in the operation 1 Arch. f. A. u. O., ii, 1, S. 192-197.