EXTRACTION OF CATARACT. 552 tion of prolapses, incarcerations, retractions, inversions, and distor- tions of the iris is inevitably greater with this kind of extraction. If vitreous has presented or escaped, it makes impossible the reposi- tion of a prolapse either at the time of the operation or afterward, and it just as effectually prevents dealing- with the pillars of the coloboma that are more often caught by the incision in the " Indian " operation. 4. Toilet Difficulties.—Ophthalmic surgeons are practically a unit as to the great importance of a finished toilet after extraction. This means not only replacing of the iris, but seeing that there is nice coaptation of the lips of the wound, that the conjunctival flap is in its place, and that there are no shreds of fibrine clinging to the incision. And, lastly, it means a gentle douching of the conjunctival sac. None of these things can be properly done if vitreous has escaped. Even in the more successful instances, the absence of the support afforded by the zonule and capsule, together with the large coloboma and the extensive incision, make it risky to perform a proper toilet. 5. Technical Difficulties.—That the operation makes greater demands not only upon one's skill, but also upon one's judgment, upon the sense of touch and upon that almost intuitive sense, which, when exercised to the fullest, is so much to be relied upon in averting disaster, all are agreed. Many of the difficulties hinge upon knowing how much pressure is required, and where best.applied to loosen the lens or the zonule from its attachments, and to follow it up in the safest and surest manner till the cataract is delivered. Several have confessed to having, on occasion, failed to deliver the lens, notwithstanding an ample incision, because the degree of pressure required was greater than they dared to make; so they desisted and had recourse to capsulotomy. 6. Injury to the Cornea.—The considerable and prolonged rubbing and trituration of the cornea with the blunt hook, which is a part of the technic, cannot but be deleterious to that membrane. Dr. Greene, of Dayton, the foremost exponent of the operation in this country, told the writer that he had changed the site of said rubbing, etc., to the sclera-corneal junction or beyond it, in conse- quence of having observed traumatic keratitis after some of his Indian extractions.