OPERATIONS UPON THE GLOBE. 458 the naked bulbus is severed from its attachments and removed from the orbit. The first recorded attempt at such an operation was that of Lange,1 but the precise method is not given. George Bartisch, of Konigsbriick, Saxony, a contemporary and survivor of Lange,2 soon after removed an eye that was in a state of procicience and, still later, described the mode of operating. He used a small razor-shaped knife; with this he cut and scraped, following the sclera, and loosening it from all connection with surrounding tissues. In a case of cancerous growth affecting the bulbous and neighboring structures, Bartisch made exenteration of the orbit, having recourse to a sort of spoon, with sharp edges, taking great care to preserve the eyelids. Fabrice de Hildens instead of the razor knife, em- ployed in a similar way a straight, double-edged, bulbous-pointed knife, which he introduced through the opening caused by a previous circumcorneal dissection of the conjunctiva. Louis substituted for the knife blunt scissors, curved on the flat, the instrument that has since been used. Notwithstanding the value of the operation of enucleation it fell into oblivion, from which it was not resurrected till near the middle of the 19th century. The classic method of ablation of the globe, on which are based all of those practised to- day, is that proposed and described by Bonnet,4 of Lyons, as a result of his studies of Tenon's capsule. This procedure was first put into practice by Stoeber, of Strassburg, in 1842, and its technic was largely refined by White Cooper, of London, in 1856. Panas says: "The principal merit of Bonnet's operation is the conservation of Tenon's capsule, which admits of the extirpation of the globe without injury to the soft parts of the orbit." Briefly described, it is as follows: The eye having been properly prepared and the blepharostat put in place, the conjunctiva all around the cornea is detached by means of scissors and freed from its episcleral attachments. The four rectus tendons are laid bare, lifted in succession upon a blunt strabismus hook, and divided with curved scissors, even with the sclera. This done, the globe is dislocated forward, the scissors passed behind it, and the optic nerve is severed slightly back of its 1 Thema. Chir. Figuri. 1555, p. 313- 2 Augendienst Dresden, 1583. 3 Observation. Chirurg., Frankfort, 1646. 4 Annal. d'oculist, T. v, 1841, p. 27.