12 PARA-OPERATIVE TECHNIC. To be free from danger, if the Schleich method is used, either the cocain should be in very minute quantity or else the ring of a clamp should be thrown around the wheal to prevent the solution from entering' the general circulation. The anesthesia is absolute, but the changed aspect of the tissues, and the swelling, are against the procedure, as is also the greater post-operative reaction which ensues. A good formula for the solution is that of Guttman, of New York, to wit: Natr. chlorid 0.2, cocain hydrobrom. 0.05, aqua destill., 100. Narcosis.—It would seem that there are always to be a certain number of operations, such as iridectomies for acute glaucoma, enucleations, extensive plastic measures, not to speak of those upon the timid and the very young, etc., that must be done under narcosis. How choose a narcotic ? This is a matter that is largely a question of natural selection. That is to say, it is decided mainly by the conditions—the age and physical state of the patient, the character of the operation, etc. My preference would be for ether, preceded by nitrous oxid, all things being equal, but I would not give ether to persons of advanced age with diseased lungs or kidneys or to those with bronchitis. For these, provided the operation were of short duration, I would choose nitrous oxid followed by ethyl chlorid—or even the latter alone—or either alone. Chloroform is the nicest of all narcotics, but the dangers—one death in a little over three thousand—to my mind, more than counterbalance its advantages. Nitrous oxid is the safest, but it is impracticable for any but the briefest operations. Ether is practically as safe— one death in 15,000. The risks with ether are almost nil and those of chloroform are greatly lessened if they are given properly warmed, and after the most approved methods. A tyro ought never to be entrusted with the narcosis, and constant watchfulness is necessary on the part of the most skilled anesthetist. It is important that the psychic state of the subjects be favorable. To this end they are encouraged and cheered in every possible way. In addition to these suggestive measures those who seem to be filled with dread or fright are given a dose of some calming drug—1/6 to 1/4 gr. of morphin, 5 to 10 grains of chloretone, or 30 gr. of bromid of soda, 45 minutes to one hour before taking the anesthetic. The more composed the patient the more quiet the first stages of the narcosis,