IO PARA-OPERATIVE TECHNIC. or vigorous disinfection generally. Window shades are of a material easily cleaned, and work from below by heavy gilt (metallic) picture cord, so as to raise the least amount of dust in being put up or down. No pus cases and no re-dressings are allowed in the clean operating room. Anesthesia.—Instead of the classification "local" and "general," it would be simpler and better English to distinguish these two con- ditions by the terms anesthesia, meaning the loss of sensation in any particular part of the body due to the contact of the sensory nerves supplying that part with a drug that causes temporary paralysis, and narcosis, meaning that condition of general stupor and uncon- sciousness, resembling sleep, caused by the wide diffusion of the poisonous drug in the circulation. Thanks to local anesthetics the eye-surgeon is now enabled to dispense with narcosis for the vast majority of operations. Indeed, there is no surgical measure resorted to by the oculist for which narcosis is not, now and then, omitted. Local.—Local anesthesia is produced, in eye surgery, in several ways; as by the instillation of solutions of anesthetics into the con- junctival sac—applicable to operations upon the mucous membrane or upon the globe. Instillation of the same solutions into open surgical wounds—applicable to operations upon the globe or its appendages, and by the infiltration method of Oberst, or the com- bined infiltration and cocain method of Schleich; the last two being applicable only to operations upon the appendages. Another form of local anesthesia proper to mention is that by freezing with the spray of anesthyl or plain chlorid of ethyl or other highly volatile substance. This serves well for the incision of abscesses of the lids or orbit, especially in children or excessively sensitive adults. Of course, the eyeball must be protected from the cold. So far ophthalmic surgeons have had little or nothing to do with the intraneural method of Gushing, and nothing with the spinal anesthesia of Corning and Bier. Of all the local anesthetics cocain, after twenty-five years of trial, still retains its supremacy. Its maximum of efficiency can be obtained with solutions varying in strength from 2 to 4%. Stronger solutions only serve to increase the objectionable qualities of the drug. Holocain stands next in popularity. It is effective