SYMBLEPHARON. of dead epithelium. Moreover, mucous grafts are not only more suitable from a physiologic standpoint, better tolerated by the eye, etc., but they are more available since they may be furnished by the lower animals. Unhappily, they are, perhaps, the least fitting from a surgical standpoint. Not that they do not take promptly, but, for one reason, because of their exceeding frailty and tender- ness, which renders them incapable of holding the retaining sutures. The originator of this species of grafting was Wolfe,1 of Glasgow, who in 1872 made use of the rabbit's conjunctiva. A little later (1873) Stellwag, of Vienna, experimented with the same, also with mucosa from the mouth and from the vagina. The rabbit's conjunctiva has been tried by hundreds since then, generally with some degree of immediate success, but the ultimate results have been uniformly disappointing. Thinking to profit by its greater toughness, Panas2 essayed the effect of transplanting the conjunctiva of the dog—to no purpose. Just as with that of the rabbit and the mucosae of man, there ensued a gradual pushing up, or shallowing of the cubcle-sac till at the end of a few months—nothing. After a day or two the epithelium comes off, and two granulating surfaces are found in contact, and neither the insertion of an artificial eye, a plate of metal, nor any known force will stop the relentless prog- ress of the obliteration. It is not improbable that some one will ere long hit upon die much-hoped-for method of permanently relieving symblepharon by the transplantation of mucous membrane. When this is found, it is likely that conjunctiva of some kind will be the mucosa selected, on account of its appropriate texture, the other kinds being far too meaty. The method pursued has usually been, first, to detach the symblepharon completely, to copiously irrigate the cavity with salt or boric solution, stop all bleeding, and then cover the lids with a pad wet with the same solution. If the rabbit's conjunctiva is chosen, it is better to have ready two of them, in case of an accident to the first one used. The animal is chloroformed, its eye cleansed witli the salt or boric solution, two or several sutures are put into the conjuctiva through small cuts, by which the area to be excised 1 Annal. d'oct., t. 69, p. 121—126, 1873. 2 Mai. des Yeux, t. ii, p. 181.