ACCIDENTS, ETC., CONSECUTIVE TO EXTRACTION. 525 some of the milder forms the process can be stopped by the use of pilocarpin or eserin, but prompt iridectomy or anterior sclerotomy {paracentesis) will be required in all the others. Postoperative lunacy, senile dementia, delirium loquace, etc., are various names that refer to a mental disorder that is not uncommon after the extraction of senile cataract. The degree varies from slight confusion of thought and incoherence of speech to violent maniacal frenzy. The predominant idea throughout is that of having been deserted, left in darkness or among strangers when in dire distress—a state akin to what is known as nostalgia. The sufferer wants to go home and continually calls for those nearest or dearest. He wants to flee from his persecutors, and herein lies the greatest danger. It is not to the lame eye—indeed, it is astonishing how seldom aught injurious ever comes to it—but it is the life and limb of the patient. Thought or conceit of that organ does not enter into his plight. He wants to get away and, in the severe cases, he goes, and if not restrained, in seeking an exit, he tries to scale the walls, to climb the door, to throw himself out of the window, or over the railing of the stairs. So that the list of fatal casualties from this cause is nothing short of appalling. The subject was fully discussed at the 1903 meeting of the American Ophthalmologic Society, as the result of an admirable paper then read by Kipp, of Newark, N. J., and published in Knapp's Archives, July 19, 1903. In the January, 1904, number of Knapp's Archives, C. E. Finlay, of Havana, Cuba, calls attention to a paper by C. Fromaget, of Bordeaux in the Annates d'occulistique, cxxiii, p. 183, in which "he considers the delirium following eye operations the result of an autointoxication, most often uremic, and due to the accumulation in the system of certain excrementi- tious products brought about by some renal insufficiency, and which is made patent by a diminution in the amount of urine, in its specific gravity or in the proportion of urea." Dr. Finlay cites a case of his own in support of Fromaget's theory. Whatever else may contribute to this ailment—the toxic effect of mydriatics or what not—it is certain that confinement in a strange place and darkness are very largely responsible; the bandaging of both eyes, total darkness in the room, etc. For the same reasons, there are many individuals, both old and young, who are unable to