I38 OPERATIONS UPON THE APPENDAGES OF THE EYE. Incisions of the anterior exterior wall of the lacrimal sac have been made in cases of dacryocystoblenorrhea, for curet- ment, as when that portion of the tractus is filled with granulations, to give access to the cautery for its obliteration, and for the evacua- tion of pus in phlegmonous inflammation. Opening of the anterior wall of the sac is clone after the following manner: for the right side an.assistant holds the patient's head, as in slitting the upper canaliculus. The operator stands in front. The third finger of the left hand is placed on the skin at the outer commissure of the lids and the palpebral fissure is stretched outward, while, with the index, the tendo oculi is located. A sharp bistoury or Beer's knife is held penholder fashion in the right hand, edge downward. The point is placed just beneath the middle of the inner canthal ligament, with the handle leaning slightly toward the temple. The blade is then pushed back, in, and slightly down, until the point touches the bone at the posterior wall of the sac. The knife is now withdrawn, extending the outer wound slightly downward and outward, taking care not to cut the posterior wall of the sac. The incision may be extended to any desired length, by means of a blunt, curved bistoury, blunt scissors or even a Weber canaliculus knife. For upward lengthening, scissors are preferable, the outer blade being placed beneath the tendo oculi and the inner one, in the sac. To get at the interior of the sac, the wound is held open by retractors, the Miiller Speculum, or simple strabismus hooks. There is apt to be considerable hemorrhage, so much, in fact, that where the sac is to be obliterated by the cautery, many opera- tors have chosen to make the operation in two sittings. At the first the opening is made, the cavity packed with gauze, dressing applied and left thus for twenty-four hours. At the second, the cautery. In this way the walls of the sac are dry and in the best possible condition for the finishing process. One may choose between the thermic cautery—as the galvano or Paquelin— and the chemic, as the nitrate of silver or mitigated stick. Relatively few modern surgeons, however, have recourse to the incision of the anterior exterior wall of the lacrimal sac, preferring extirpation for the first two conditions and the slitting of the canal- iculus for the third. This last demands a complete section from punctum to sac or, at least, to the common duct and, in addition,