OPERATIONS UPON THE GLOBE. 412 been commonly called evisceration. Indeed, it would be better if the term evisceration were dropped from the medical dictionaries altogether, since it has precisely the same etymologic significance as exenteration, and is the preferable word in common parlance, where exenteration is rare. About a century ago, Wardrop, of Edinburgh, as a cure for the sympathetic ophthalmia of horses, advised incision of the cornea of the exciting eye, and the removal of the lens and vitreous, suggesting at the same time that a similar procedure might be applied to the human eye. The first to put the suggestion into effect was Barton,1 who employed it for the removal of fragments of copper from the eye. As has already been stated on page 391, De Wecker, about 1883, added exenteration to his tobacco-pouch modification of Critchett's ablation. Frohlich,2 in 1881, "removed the front section of the globe and scooped out the contents of the scleral capsule," with the hope of escaping the grave consequences that sometimes follow enucleation. Alfred Graefe^ adopted exenteration for most cases for which formerly enucleation had been practiced. He excepted those in which there was, or threatened soon to be, sympathetic ophthalmia. This surgeon was the first to plan for the operation a definite technic, the main points of which are as follows: The upper lid is held up by an assistant with a Desmarres retractor. Supposing it to be the right eye, the operator grasps the conjunctiva at the external corneal limbus with fixation forceps, while the as- sistant does the same only 5 mm. further back in the horizontal meridian. The intervening tissue is put upon the stretch, but without pressure upon the globe, and with a convex scalpel a small vertical incision is made, close up to the forward forceps, carefully carried in until the blackness of the ciliary body shows. Now, with delicate, blunt-pointed scissors, the incision is extended between the sclera and the cornea till the two meet at the corre- sponding point on the opposite side. Here Bunge's exenteration curet is inserted between sclera and uvea, convex side out, and the two tunics separated, cutting in succession the vorticose veins, the ciliary arteries and nerves, and finally the neck of the optic nerve- head. Having seen that only the bare sclera remains, the cavity is 1 Crampton Med. Gaz., London, 1837. * Klin. Mbl. F. S., 1881, S. 30. 3 Tagb. der 57. Vers. Deutsch. Naturf. u. Aerzte, Magdeburg, 1884.