THE REMOVAL OF FOREIGN BODIES. 6i8 the anterior chamber is empty, the foreign body is caught between the iris and the cornea, and if the foreign body is angular, or jagged, it will then catch or sink deeply into the iris and be impossible to extricate without undue violence. A sharp projection may, in this way, be even driven through the capsule of the lens, causing traumatic cataract. If working under such difficulties, lay a pad of cotton, wet with boric acid, over the closed lids, and wait for the secretion of more aqueous. There is no need of hurrying. In the event of its being a bit of iron or steel, there is no question but that it should be got out with a magnet, the one question being as to the kind of magnet, magnetized nickel-plated iron probe (or solid nickel), tip of hand-magnet, or the giant magnet. Great attracive force is rarely needed, and if exerted will often cause a prolapse of iris, hemorrhage in the anterior chamber, and pain and wincing on the part of the patient. A magnetized probe is a poor instrument as compared with a properly constructed hand-magnet. There would be many an occasion on which the control of the current causing the traction would be of decided advantage. Most eye surgeons agree in pronouncing the smaller magnet more fitting than the larger when it comes to work in connection with the anterior chamber. Sometimes a silver or horn iris spatula can be of great assistance by slightly prying open the incision, and by holding back the iris. Its use is especially recommended if there is a ten- dency of the cut to strip the foreign body off the traction instrument, be it probe or magnet tip. If the foreign body is fast too tightly, either by being pinched between cornea and iris or by entanglement in the latter, to come out with moderate attraction, and if waiting for the chamber to reform, together with the use of the spatula, do not help matters, it were better to resort to the iris forceps for its with- drawal than to throw on the full power of a giant magnet. This seizing the foreign body with the forceps is of course at the risk of bringing the surrounding portion of the iris out with it. The best form of iris forceps is that without teeth, having, instead, slight serrations athwart the inner aspect of the jaws. A forceps with teeth is apt to make the foreign body jump away. In seizing the foreign body as little of the iris should be included as can be. Yet as much as comes out with the forceps were best snipped off. A clean coloboma is better than a mangled and poorly replaced segment of iris. An