6l2 OPERATIONS UPON THE ORBIT. Kronlein operation cannot or has not resulted in the eradication of an orbital growth which may be considered a source of danger. The occasion for making exenteration is rare, and when resorted to the total form is most often the better to select. With the perfection in methods of diagnosis, like the ophthalmoscope and the micro- scope, of the surgical treatment of tumors, to say nothing of their treatment by radiation., the sphere of exenteration has become still more limited. The partial method is called for in those instances where, upon the enucleation of the globe for an intraocular malig- nant growth, it is found that there has been a slight extension outside of the sclera; or in cases of some of the more circumscribed tumors, and those of the optic nerve and its sheath; or cavernomas, that have got beyond the bounds of the muscle funnel, particularly toward the nasal side, as evinced by the direction of the exophthalmos, etc. By far the greater number of partial exenterations, however, will be undertaken in such affections as the softer sarcomata of the orbit, or those of epithelial cancer that have extended deeply into this cavity; the last purely with the object of getting surplus tissue out of the way, preparatory to treatment by radiation. It is quite possible to change the operation to the total form after having begun it as a partial, and will doubtless be found desirable at times. Technic of Total Exenteration.—Narcosis; preferably ether, or by means of ethyl chlorid or nitrous oxid, if the subjects are children or elderly individuals with reduced vital force. The first step of the operation is the making of a canthotomy, which should extend at least one centimeter beyond the bony rim of the orbit. The lids are then everted and stretched wide apart with lid forceps or clamps. The second step is the circumcision of the soft parts. With a highly convex scalpel a deep cut is made the entire length of the lower conjunctival fornix, and down to the bone forming the corresponding rim of the orbit. This is continued upward, along the outer cul-de-sac, inward above, and downward at the nasal side, to meet the first cut, carrying it boldly to the rim all the way. Here the lacrimal canal is to be avoided. The reason for beginning the cut below is to reduce interruption from bleeding to the minimum. The third step is the loosening of the periosteum. This is incised just on the brink of the orbit all the way around. The inner lip of this incision is loosened up slightly at the outer wall, a long,