2l6 OPERATIONS UPON THE LIDS. eversion of the lid, cocain and a drop of adrenalin, and thorough curettage. A clamp and sutures are uncalled for. Other indica- tions than those just alluded to hardly exist for the method in ques- tion, seeing that either the marginal or the cutaneous modes offer superior results. In truth, large chalazions, extirpated from the conjunctival side, have been followed by troublesome trichiasis. The cutaneous opening is resorted to by many as a customary procedure, and has certain advantages. For the hard, fibroid chalazions and those softer ones whose seats are high up in the superior tarsus, this is by far the best method. The instruments needed are a lid clamp (Desmarre's, Plate VI, is probably the most suitable, but Snellen's also answers well) small, mouse-tooth forceps, small scalpel or bistoury, Steven's strabismus hooks, small, blunt scissors, needle forceps, and a fine curved needle, carrying No. i braided silk thread. Narcosis would be admissible only in case of a child, either in years or nerves. A drop of cocain solution is put into the eye to make it tolerant of the clamp. The plate of the latter is slid beneath the lid, the ring made to encircle the chalazion and the screw tightened. This ap- pliance insures hemostasis and steadies the field of operation. The hard, rubber lid spatula may be substituted for the clamp, but it must be held by an assistant. A transverse incision is made (that is, parallel with the free border) over the tumor and extending a short distance beyond it at each end through integument and orbicularis, down to the tarsus, and held open by the little strabismus hooks. The fibres of the muscle are pushed aside, the tumor seized with the forceps, or a minimum-size, short tenaculum does equally well, and dissected with knife and scissors much as one would shell out a sebaceous cyst. If practicable, the conjunctiva beneath the chalazion is left intact, but no part of the abnormal growth is left behind in order to avoid making a hole clear through, as to do so would do no special harm. The opening is cleansed, but not until after the removal of the clamp and the stanching of the blood is the suture introduced. One suffices, and it is taken out after twenty- four to thirty-six hours. The dressing may be the regulation bandage, a patch, or adhesive strips. Canthoplasty.—Technically, this word signifies an operation for the correction of an anomalous condition of the commissure—