SIMPLE PERIPHERAL CORNEAL FLAP EXTRACTION. 497 on a transverse vertical plane, but as It is, like a ball that turns on a universal central pivot. Don't seize merely a fold of conjunctiva by which to steady the eye, but in addition, as much as possible of the subjacent tissues and as near as practicable to the cornea. Don't employ fixation after the bulbus is opened unless the need is urgent. Don't neglect to test point and edge of both knife and cystotome before they are disinfected, to see that they are sharp. Don't use a knife with long needledike point—the tip might break. Don't hold the knife so tightly as to cramp the fingers, nor yet so loosely as to cause wavering. Don't attempt either corneal or capsule incision free hand. No matter how steady the latter, always rest the little linger on the patient's face not only for support, but in order to move with him should he stir. Don't haggle, fuss, nor hesitate in making the section, yet, while forging steadily ahead, do so with a certain deliberateness. Faulty sections, premature escape of aqueous, etc., come not so often of slowness as of vacillation. Don't lose sight of the patient's demeanor. If this be favorable throughout the corneal section, it is apt to be so for the entire opera- tion. If he begins to squeeze, pause, even though in the midst of the incision, and remonstrate with him in a kindly tone, and have the assistant guard closely the brow and speculum. Don't take the eyes off the site of the operation for an instant. Have the assistants so trained that it will not be necessary for the operator to seek instruments and implements, nor to lay them down. Be in the closest touch with the subject, allowing not a single break in that subtle, intuitive current whereby we anticipate a move on his part. Don't scrawl all over the capsule and zonule with the cystotome. Take pains to place the point properly on the cataract just where the opening should begin—not hastily; elevate the handle until the point is sure to have engaged the capsule, then draw it very lightly along, making a definite cut, and note that the lens responds to the liberation by springing forward. If not, it is better to go over it a second time, there and then, trying to improve upon the tirst effort, than to be obliged to again enter the instrument. Don't triturate the cornea too much with the spoon in delivering 32