I INSTRUMENTS AND THEIR MANAGEMENT. 68 the conjunctival route, which is fast becoming the only method. The advantages of this mode, together with a method of preparing old worn Graefe knives for use in the operation, in place of needles, or knife needles, is given in the chapter on Discission. Stop Needles.—The various types of discission needles, like the long, straight, spear-pointed, the sickle, etc., have mostly fallen into disuse. One among them, however, is still in favor. This is the stop needle of Bowman. As it owes its prolonged life to its value in the operation of dilaceration, it is best to procure a pair of them. In view of the fact that in this procedure the needles are passed through transparent cornea, they should be gotten up in manner so slight and dainty as to insure a minimum of traumatism. The little rhomboid terminations ought not to exceed 2 mm. in length by 1 mm. in width. It is best to have the edges lightly convex, as this not only helps in penetration, but also gives lee-way for sharpening without spoiling. The size of the shaft between rhomboid and shoulder should be 6 to 7 mm. long by 3/5 of a mm. in thickness, and the larger, or upper, part of the shaft should not leave off suddenly, leaving a square offset, but should taper—but rapidly—into the lower part. By this arrangement there is no sharp angle to catch dirt, no corner to injure the corneal epithelium, and, most important, the sloping shoulder serves as a stopper to keep back the aqueous. Tattooage Needle.—This is an instrument seldom needed except in a large charitable clientele, and there they are supplied. Besides, as the cases are not usually emergency ones, there would be time enough to get the instrument after getting the patient. However, the instruments for the procedure are described under Tattooage of the Cornea. Blunt Dissector.—For shelling out tumors, extirpating the lacrimal sac—in short, for use wherever blunt dissection is indicated; also for loosening the periosteum in total exenteration of the orbit, the writer has had constructed a modification of Fenger's blunt dissector. Its blade is lanciolate, lightly curved on the flat, has a suspicion of transverse rounding out on the convex side, and a low, longitudinal, median rib on the concave side. Its length is 3.5 centimeters, and it is 6 mm. wide at its middle. Sharp Hooks (Plate II).—One, or possibly two, of different pat-