575 HISTORICAL. ancient surgeons and those of the Middle Ages, yet prior to the last decade of the 17th century, all that was said in this connection seems to have rested on mere assumption. In fact, previous to the period just alluded to, it was not known that cataract had aught to do with the crystalline, but was thought to be a sort of pellicle or him situated in front of that body. The discovery that cataract consisted in opacity of the lens, was made by the French surgeori- oculist, Antoine Maitre-Jean, in the year 1691. He examined, postmortem, the eyes of a woman in whose case, hve weeks before her death, he had made depression in both eyes, and there he found the opaque lenses lying behind the lower portions of the irides. It was not, however, until 1705, after a memorial presented to the Paris Academy of Sciences by the younger Brisseau, that the truth as lo their identity became generally known. It is recorded that Blancard, of Amsterdam, had, in the last decade of the 17th century, proposed the extraction of cataract, and that johann Conrad Freytag, of Zurich, had, between 1692 and 1698, actually undertaken to remove portions of a dislocated lens from the anterior chamber through a corneal incision. The first authentic record of a cataract extraction from a living subject was that of Charles de Saint-Yves, surgeon to the Hospital of St. Lazare, at Paris, in 1707. It was of a lens that, after having been depressed, found its way into the anterior chamber, and the operation was undertaken for the relief of pain, the eye having been sightless. One year later, St. Yves and another surgeon, Francois Pourfour du Petit, extracted a similarly dislocated lens which, two years before, had been couched. Tin's last case not only served to add proof to the idea that cataract was not a veil in front of, but cloudiness within, the lens itself, but also to demonstrate the true function of the crystalline; for, with the aid of a strong convex glass, the patient was able to read with the operated eye. The presence of the lens within the eye had always been considered absolutely essential to sight. Mery, who assisted in the operations of St. Yves and Petit ,was the first to conceive and propose the idea of extracting, through a corneal incision, a cataract from behind the pupil. These were some of the forerunners of the operation for the extrac- tion of the lens from its normal site, as first practiced,—also by