DISCISSION. point of the knife is made to swing in the central meridian of the lens till it approaches the pupillary margin just across from the operator—below always with the ambidexter—the handle elevated, and the blade pushed slantingly into the lens substance, taking care not to go through the posterior capsule. The handle is then rotated away from the operator and a free incision is made in the crystalline. The knife is now once more put into the horizontal position, as on entering, and rapidly withdrawn. This last move would better be a quick jerk which best assures what is most de- sirable, viz., the leaving behind of aqueous, shreds of capsule, and particles of the lens. Before abandoning the needle or knife-needle and the puncturing of clear cornea in making this operation, I had come to regard the operation of discission as being quite as formidable as that of extrac- tion itself, whether undertaken for cataract or pupillary membrane. Statistics prove that it is really a dangerous operation. Hardly an operator of fair experience but has had at some time very serious reaction follow "a simple needling." The perils incident to the ordinary needle operation were strongly brought out and emphasized by the well-known, world-wide inquiry of Landolt, instituted some years ago. Since adopting the Graefe knife and the extreme peripheral place of entry, the procedure has to me lost all its terrors, and I no longer hesitate to make as many repetitions of it as are needed in a given case. The reasons for the superiority of the knife, modified as stated above, are: 1. The cross-section of a properly made modern modification of the Graefe knife is an ever-increasing wedge which, while entering without a jog, effectively keeps back the aqueous. 2. It cuts better than the needle or knife-needle, both of which mostly tear, and the edged portion, having some length, allows more leeway, i.e., the blade may move slightlv in or out, yet still be enabled to cut the capsule. Best of all, it permits one to impart to the blade that delicate, almost imperceptible, sawing movement so essential to incision—especially desirable with membranous cataracts. 3. All the trenchant needles have round shanks whose diameter is smaller than is the width of the blade, making a sort of shoulder where the two meet, so that they ream out a hole and permit the 36