185 TENDON SHORTENING. in Critchett's advancement. The operation, in fact, is the same as Critchett's without excision of a piece of tendon. The sutures remain in five or six days. The operation acts by shortening (tightening) the check-ligaments and the muscle by folding them. They remain folded and attached to their new position on the sclerotic by means of cicatricial tissue, which is formed by an ad- hesive inflammation due to the irritation set up by the sutures." 4. Tendon shortening, for the cure of the various forms of squint has been, and still is, extensively practised. As has been stated, this is accomplished in two ways: (a) by folding of the tendon upon itself and fixing it so, or tucking; and (b) by the excision of a portion of the tendon—tenonectomy. a. Folding or tucking of the tendon is the outgrowth of DeWecker's capsular advancement, treated of in the preceding section, and, as there asserted, it was Herman Knapp, of New York, who was the originator of the measure under the name of tendino- capsular advancement. Kalt1 proposed a modification of Knapp's method, which con- sisted in omitting the tendon from the thread, but putting it in capsule only, as did DeWecker in his capsular advancement. The sheath of the tendon was not loosened, but to avoid folding the tendon he severed the latter Fig. 77.—Lagleyze's folding from the globe and allowed it to method- advance with the capsule. Lagleyze,2 of Buenos Ayres, reports excellent results obtained with a folding operation of his own, (Fig. 77.) made as follows: After having excised a flap of conjunctiva overlying the tendon, he incises Tenon's capsule, inserts one strabismus hook beneath the tendon and another beneath the fleshy part of the muscle. He then proceeds to suture by means of a double-armed thread. One needle is made to pass through the body of the muscle from its scleral surface, 1 mm. from its border and, in emerging, to include the capsule and con- 1 Soc. d'opht., 2 mars, 1891. 2 Arch, d'opht., xii, p. 668, 1892