65 LANCE KERATOMES. objectionable as the kind just described, is also objectionable in that it lacks penetrating qualities. These defects are more apt to be acquired at the hands of unskilled repairers than to be present in the new instrument. The back is scrupulously rounded. Blade and handle are connected by a pedestal-shaped shank fully 1/2 centimeter long, which must be strong and firm. Lance Keratomes.—It would be well to have not less than four, say two with blades of average dimensions, the third of somewhat larger, and the fourth of smaller measurement. This knife is usually referred to as the keratome, and, although strictly speaking, it is not any more of a keratome than any other knife that is used to incise the cornea, usage has made it more entitled to the name than the others. Its origin was, in England, as "the bent lance," and it came to be known in Europe as the "English lance-knife." It has undergone many modifications and been put to many uses. The present model is essentially that given by Friederich Jager, and its employment is almost exclusively confined to corneal incisions for iridectomy and, in short, all operations requiring a linear, corneal opening, of relatively limited extent. Czermak recommends it for making the intermarginal incision in restoration of the border of the lid in trichiasis. The blade is almost an equilateral triangle, the measurement from heal to point in the median line, consti- tuting the altitude, being greater by one mm. than that across the base. The dimensions of the average size, of which it is well to possess two, would be 0 mm. for the base and io mm. for the altitude. Those of the oilier two 7x8, and iox 11 mm., respectively. Jager's blade was set at an angle of about 450 to that of the handle. This has been found too great a bend for any but the most deeply sunken eyes. The most convenient angle for all around utility is about 350. And I quite agree with Knapp in recommending, as has been stated, that'all the keratomes be set at the same angle. These four, at any rate. On rare occasions a narrower and comparatively long blade, and an ordinary one, of good size, mounted on a bayonet shank (Bader's) would come handy—the first, for instance, in certain optic iridectomies, and the second for extraperipheral iridectomy in a subject with great overhang of brow. Eandolt's well known keratome with the broad curved shank, and the blade with rounded corners, is a practical instrument, but as it requires 5