449 VARIETIES OF COLOBOMA IN IRIDECTOMY. and the manner of manipulating the scissors in making the cut. Accurate dosage of the excision is not possible without close atten- tion to each of these three features. For a narrow coloboma with converging pillars the said bite is small, little more than the sphincter is withdrawn, and the cut is made with scissors blades at right angles to the lips of the wound and without hugging the cornea very closely. For a broader, more peripheral iridectomy, the bite is wider, the withdrawal is more pronounced, and the snip is made while holding the scissors blades parallel with the lips of the wound, even, if need be, pressing them down at the moment of closing upon the iris, in order to make a yet larger section. A convenient form of colo- boma for preparatory iridectomy and the kind most suitable in the ordinary therapeutic iridectomy in acute glaucoma is the "key-hole coloboma" of Sir William Bowman. This is made by three snips of the scissors, and in this manner: As the iris is withdrawn it is pulled to one extremity of the corneal incision, the pillar of that side is formed by a snip with the points of the scissors, the latter directed toward the root of the iris; the membrane is then more strongly withdrawn, the base of the coloboma is formed by a snip parallel with the lips of the corneal wound, the iris is then pulled to the other extremity of the incision, and the second pillar of the coloboma is formed by the third and final snip which, like the first, is directed at right angles to the course of the corneal incision. This snip, however, is not made with the points of the blades only, but, to the end that the severance of the iris may be complete, the blades are placed well astride the protruding iris. In each cut the scissors are held close down to the surface of the globe, but not in such a manner as to cut the conjunctiva. For the extra broad and peripheral coloboma in glaucoma, Bowman1 recommended tearing the base of the coloboma, instead of cutting it, cutting only the pillars, a procedure that has been attributed also to De Wecker and to Cuignet under the name of arrachement of the iris. This tearing away of the iris in iridectomy for glaucoma has several advantages. It admits of an absolutely peripheral coloboma with a long wound canal, whether said length is the result either of beginning of the primary incision well back of the sclero-corneal junction, or of making too slanting a wound in attempting to 1 Trans. London Congress, 1873, p 203. 2Q