INSTRUMENTS AND THEIR MANAGEMENT. 62 it from the anterior chamber, for instance, in the same sense that it entered; but, with the blade hidden in an opaque lens, as is often the case, and the aqueous most likely evacuated, this would not be so easy if there were not the handle to point the way. So much for the handles. Next, for the instruments which they carry, together with a few notes as to their manipulation. Let us begin with the Scalpels.—Of these there should be at least two—one after Von Arlt's model and another with a blade of great convexity. Arlt's is excellent for use in many ways, yet the other, while just as good for all around work, is superior under certain special conditions. The knife in question is one devised by the writer about twelve years ago, though the latest modification of it has even greater con- vexity of edge. Originally intended mainly for use in blepharo- plasty, it has become my chosen knife in most instances where a scalpel is needed. It owes its individuality and its value to the extraordinary convexity of that part of the edge which is situated near the extremity of the blade. The length of the latter is about 2.5 centimeters, and its width, at the broadest part, 7 to 8 mm., while Arlt's is 3 to 3.5 centimeters long, and its greatest width is 5 to 6 mm. With the ordinary scalpel, held pen-holder fashion, according to rule, and with incisions of average penetration, the extent to which the edge engages the tissues is very slight, being limited to the point and several contiguous millimeters. Even with the handle as near as possible to the horizontal as is consistent with this manner of holding the handle, the length of available edge is less than one-fourth of the whole. Therefore, as regards the cutting qualities of any but the terminal third of the blade, it were as well that they did not exist. It is desirable, then, that the trenchancy of the part concerned be heightened in the utmost. This is precisely what is aimed at in this scalpel. A single point, like that of the bistoury or the Beer's knife, is insufficient, for the reason that it soon loses its keenness; whereas, the extended con- tact unavoidable with an edge of low convexity, is yet more unfitting, because it is less guidable and requires more force on account of the friction. The special configuration of the blade under consideration offers an efficient mean between the two extremes. If held fiddle-bow fashion, as would seem to be the preferable