44§ OPERATIONS UPON THE GLOBE. in the aphakial eye. In one respect it has the advantage over the forceps, in that its grasp is practically painless, while that of the for- ceps is decidedly the reverse. One of its greatest disadvantages lies in the fact that it cannot be made to let go promptly in an emergency. Singularly enough, this fault is due to a virtue in its construction, seeing that to be effective, the bend must be sharp and of fair depth. The blunt hook has the further advantages of easy manipulation through a very small incision and of holding the iris by a tiny area, which is favorable in dosing the extent of the excision. (C) Size and Shape of the Coloboma.—The manner of grasp- ing the iris with the forceps, that is, the precise location of the part seized, and its dimensions, must depend largely upon the object of the iridectomy. In the vast majority of the uncomplicated iridectomies the lesser circle, or corona, is the most eligible objective point. The somewhat greater elevation and thickness of this portion of the iris, together with the looseness of its tissue, afford a safe and ready hold. For a sphincterectomy and for iridectomy in exclusion of the pupil, when one would avoid leaving a bridge, the bite of the forceps must be as near as practicable to the pupillary border. It is possible in making sphincterectomy to grasp the iris at the outer limits of the lesser circle, withdraw till the free border appears without, then cut in front of the tip of the forceps, but this mode is uncertain and not to be recommended. In iridec- tomy for glaucoma, the point of seizure is usually about midway of the membrane, or, to be more technical, toward the inner limit of the ciliary zone, in order that the ligamentatum pectinatum may the better be put upon the stretch to insure the most peripheral coloboma. The ciliary zone is also the portion selected for the tiny forceps-bite in the optic iridectomy of Pope and in the drain iridec- tomy of Chandler—the last being described under "Extraction." In all instances in which the excision of the iris is made with a single snip of the scissors, the section removed embraces the part held in the jaws of the forceps, and, in addition, a strip of varying width, in proportion as much or little of the iris is drawn out at the wound, and as the blades of the scissors approach the cornea. The size of the coloboma, therefore, in the one-snip iridectomy, with a given corneal incision, will depend upon the breadth of the bite given to the forceps, the extent to which the iris is withdrawn,