271 ORGANIC OR CICATRICIAL ENTROPION. operation is to turn the cilia upward, like the feathers in a strutting peacock's tail, and such a manipulation of the dressing tends to heighten the result. To avoid loss of time in the first removal of the dressings, caused by prolonged soaking of the cotton, as well as to prevent loss of the graft itself, through having become glued firmly to the cotton, one may place next to the lids a piece of thin soft gutta-percha tissue. Upon this, a good-sized pad of dry cotton is built up and over all the wet netting roller is applied. The patient is kept quiet in bed for forty-eight hours, when the bandage is cut, the cotton removed by soaking with warm, boric acid solution and all the sutures are removed. The identical dressing is reapplied with renewal at twenty-four-hour intervals for a week or more. It will not do to leave off the bandage earlier, else the drying effect of exposure will cause the graft to perish and drop out. Even after the final removal of the bandage, it is well to keep the graft covered for a few days with a film of sterilized vaselin, for fear of desiccation. Formerly the wound in the mouth was closed by sutures, but of late nothing is done for it. It heals kindly by granulation and, moreover, most of the subjects are operated without narcosis, and are glad to be spared further "sewing." Conclusions.—In my practice the several procedures just described, viz., canthoplasty, Hotz's method, counter-grooving of the tarsus, tucking of the tarso-orbital fascia, and the insertion of the post-ciliary mucous graft are nearly always combined in a single operation, which at the Eye and Ear Infirmary has come to be known as "the altogether." They are thus united not for convenience, but because experience has taught that by so doing the effect is greater, better, and more lasting. If the same were done piecemeal, i.e., for instance, first the canthoplasty, the Hotz operation a week later, and so on, the ultimate result would be much less satisfactory. Each of the multiple factors concerned in the entropion is attacked by an efficient foe and the defects are righted in a rational way by judiciously apportioning the effect among the several ills, rather than by giving too great prominence to one or two (Figs. 143 and 144). With regard to the choice of mucous or of skin grafts for the restorat'on of the free border, ophthalmic surgeons are not in accord.