532 EXTRACTION OF CATARACT. cortex from beneath this bridge. They made upward section. Desmarres is said to have operated similarly, with downward sec- tion, nearly sixty years ago. Others left the bridge only until the blepharostat was removed, in order to prevent vitreous escape, and then divided it before proceeding with the extraction. Subconjunctival Extraction.—Czermak went further and evolved his "conjunctival pouch" operation (Fig. 242). Czermak's object was to render the eye safer from both primary and secondary prolapse and infection, especially to protect the wound during the period of healing, from outward contamination, and to avert pro- lapse of the iris. The section was made downward when iridectomy of scissors. The lens was delivered, and the cortex worked out in the usual manner, the spoon or the spatula being manipulated beneath the conjunctiva in the pouch. The few advantages sought were more than offset by the added difficulties and complications incident to this mode of procedure; though in a few selected cases the operation with downward section is of positive value, for instance, in very deeply sunken eyes and those whose conjunctival sacs are much atrophied, as from old trachoma. It has been often observed that gaping of the incision occurred when made beneath the con- junctiva or even with too large a flap of this membrane. Suturing of Corneal Wound.—First done, after extraction, by Williams, of Boston, in 1867, and since tried by many operators, notable among whom are Mendoza, Kalt, Czermak, L. Miiller, Bourgeois, and Schweigger. The thread has been inserted in several ways, usually engaging the cornea, on the one hand, and the con- junctiva and episcleral tissue on the other, but never passing entirely Fig. 242. was to be omitted, and upward when not. The incision was begun with a 3 mm. broad Graefe knife by punctur- ing the anterior chamber via a long conjunctival route, withdrawing the knife, then extending the conjunctival cut downward and outward (or up- ward and outward, as the case might be), and undermining the conjunctiva about the site of the proposed incision. The latter was completed by means