394 OPERATIONS UPON THE GLOBE. and a true corneal graft is put on to prevent recidivation. This has been mentioned in the chapter on Pterygium. The second, or optic, keratoplasty, has reference to that form of grafting whereby an attempt is made to substitute transparent tissue for opaque, and principally concerns those cases where exists blindness from total leucoma. It is but natural that surgeons should strive, as did Pellier1 more than a hundred years ago, and as they have striven, at intervals, ever since to put windows into these pitiable eyes. As yet their striving has been mostly in vain in so far as accomplishing the main object is concerned. Surely, though, it will be accomplished. One cannot help being impressed with the probability of this when, as has been the experience of many, one sees a patient with purulent ophthalmia whose cornea has just been completely destroyed by sloughing, yet enabled to count fingers or even to tell the time on a watch, with the afflicted eye by means of a rising button of vitreous. It may have been some such incident that turned Pellier's thoughts toward the possibility of putting in an artificial cornea, and that has actuated certain others since his time, as, for instance, Nussbaum,2 who inserted a double button of glass in the center of the cornea; and Dimmer^ who made similar trial of a celluloid disk. These foreign bodies, although they restored some vision for the moment, either soon came out or were buried beneath the tissues. Keratoplasty is called total when the piece to be replaced and the graft each includes the entire thickness of the cornea, and partial when each includes all but the posterior layer. The first to make an actual attempt at optic corneal grafting was Reisinger,-* who but acted, however, on the suggestion made to him in 1813 by his friend and teacher, Himly.s Reisinger's experiments were upon the eyes of rabbits and by total grafting. His success did not encourage him to continue. Some years later, Muhlbauer,6 proposed the method of partial keratoplasty, though he did not 1 Pellier, Manuel de Lefehure sur les ophtalmies, 1802. 2 Deutsche Klin. No. 34, 1853. 3 The Operative Treatment of Total Leucoma, etc., Trans. Heideb. Oph. Scy., 1889, S. 147. 4 Baerische Ann. . . . aus dem Gebiete der Chirurg., etc., 1 Heft, Sulzbach, 1824. 5 Himly, Krank. und Misshildung. des Aug., S. 60, 1843. 6 Schmidt's Jahresb., xxxv. 1839.