153 OBLITERATION OF THE SAC. cavity. It is essential that a ball of cotton be placed immediately over the wound, between the wet layer and the dry pad, to insure such obliteration. The sutures are removed just as early as the condition of the wound will allow. If this be in forty-eight hours, all the better. Where a tent is required as a drain or to induce healing by granulation from the bottom of the opening, a strip of iodoform gauze answers the purpose. The wound is closed at either extremity and the gauze is left projecting from the middle. The bandage is changed daily—so is the tent if used—until per- manent closure is effected. Obliteration of the Sac.—This measure is indicated when, through long-standing suppurative disease, with numerous exacer- bations, much scar tissue with extensive adhesions, thickening of the periosteum, bone lesions, fistula?, and fungosities exist. The incision is made as for extirpation, except that it includes the front and outer wall of the sac and, if necessary, the internal canthal ligament. After widely separating the lips, the cut in the front wall is extended into the nasal duct. As much as practicable of the sac is dissected out, the rest, together with the fungosities and the carious bone, removed by scraping with a strong, sharp curet, and lastly, the entire cavity is rather deeply seared with the thermo- cautery. Iodoform gauze packing, the ordinary pad, and bandage compose the dressing, all of which are renewed daily under antisep- tic irrigation, until the wound heals from the bottom. Later it may be necessary to repeat the operation one or more times. Fistula of the lacrimal sac will sometimes require an opera- tion for its cure, when the indications for obliteration or extirpation of the canal are lacking. A tiny fistula that pours out simply tears will usually disappear by the simple operation of opening up the nasal part of the canal by probing, preferably without slitting up the canaliculus, with, perhaps, stimulation of the tract by means of the galvano-cautery. A pus fistula may yield to Bowman's operation, the use of the syringe and the Tansley cannula with potent antiseptics. Failing in this, recourse may be had to the more radical measure of incision and excision of the tract and closure by sutures. In conclusion, a watchword that will bear repeating is, always the conservation of the lacrimal canal whenever possible.