45 APPLICATION OF HEAT. bag, but the first will si ill answer in a pinch. Yet other simple modes are to heat small pads of cotton or wool in an oven or Japanese muff-warmer or, best of all, beneath a hot flat-iron. Among the more scientific methods is that by the thermophore, illustrated in Fig. 28, and that by the electric pad. The thermophore con- sists of a double tank for the water. The hot water flows outward from one tank through a rubber pipe, passes through a rubber coil (A), thence returns through another tube to the other tank. The heat is supplied by a gas-burner or a spirit lamp. The one shown in the illustration has four sets of pipes and four coils, suitable for both eyes of two persons, or one eye each of four. The coil is wrapped in a small towel before applying. In lieu of the elaborate heating apparatus one may use a jug of hot water, placed some- what higher than the patient's head. From this the water is syphoned through tube and coil, and thence to another jug on the floor. The supply jug is wrapped in woolen cloth to retain the heat. The electric pad consists of a resistance coil contained in an asbestos envelope, and connected by insulated conducting wires with the socket of an ordinary incandescent lamp. The heater is wrapped in dry flannel before using. The temperature of either pad or coil must be carefully watched to avoid burning the skin. If the source of heat is not continuous the application is renewed every few minutes. The duration of either procedure is from 5 to 30 minutes. The temperature is usually as high as can be endured or just short of doing harm. Moist heat may be either plain or antiseptic. The simplest form of either is that of bathing or douching. To bathe the eye with a hot liquid the patient would better sit erect, so that there is a minimum of blood in the head. Stooping over would cause congestion. The water or solution is conta ned in a bowl or basin, held close up beneath the chin, and is dabbed on, over the closed lids, by cotton, gauze, or a piece of clean soft l'nen. The conjunctival douche is applied as already directed. Or the applications may be in the form of fomentations— plain or antiseptic, such as small pads of cotton or wool, wrung out of the very hot liquid, or out of moderately hot, and further heated under a flat-iron. This obviates burning the hands of the attendant. As soon as the pad is in place it is covered with a dry flannel cloth or other non-conducting material. Of course, the