5 7 [NSTRUMENTS AND TIIKIK MANAGEMENT. harmony, of the corresponding parts of the different articles. In the form and size of the handles, for example, as also in the size of scissors rings, the length of scissors branches, and in the angle at which the blades of keratomes are set. To be sure, this cannot he carried out to the letter, on account of the inevitably great dif- ference in bulk. But most of the smaller instruments in daily use can be made to conform to this principle. There are undeniable advantages in the habitual feel of the instrument imparted to the lingers in this way, not to speak of those as to appearances, that such a collection would enjoy over a heterogeneous assortment. Among the most obvious essentials in all instruments is superiority of material. This is especially true of the cutting instruments. Unfortunately, this is a quality of which it is difficult to judge beforehand. A few years ago all of our finer steel instruments were made in Europe, and the names of Collin, Liter, Richter, Windier, Weiss, and a few others were not merely guarantees of high quality, as they are still, but they were the and the only ones. Now good and bad instruments are made "all over," and one may take his chances. Certainly the best of those turned out in the United States are second to none. Thus, in a general way, is answered the question as to what are the qualities requisite and desirable in a surgical instrument. And what is true of these as a whole is true of those pertaining to any branch. Now, to particularize. Following Landolt's classification we shall begin with the instru- ments with handles. "And :'n passing, let us bestow a word upon this feature of the instrument—a feature of greater importance than many seem to think. Is it not the intermediary between the hand that guides and the part that engages? Is it not through it that the sensitive fingers of the operator are made aware of the- resistance their movements encounter; these fingers which put in touch with the work the reason that contrives, the intellect that seeks, and the power that executes?"1 The handle was formerly made of ivory or bone, but these materials have now, quite properly, yet reluctantly, been discarded for metal, such as aluminum, to admit of boiling. Yet ivory is an ideal material. Its weight is just right. It is a poor conductor of heat and cold, and its best 1 Passages in quotation marks are Landolt's.