ECTROPION. 2 Cong. fran. de Chir. seance du 9 otobre, 1889, 4 session, p. 361. sutures are put. If there is decided elongation of the free border, a portion is resected at the outer canthus (see Figs. 190 and 191). 4. The Italian method, or autoplasty by means of a pediceled flap taken from a distant part of the body. This, like blepharo- plasty by cutaneous grafts, is applicable to cases where the destruc- tion of the lids and the adjacent skin is such as to render the use of the local integument impossible or undesirable. The method was invented several centuries ago by a Sicilian surgeon of the name Branca, and practiced by himself, and afterward by divers other members of the same name and family for the restoration of the nose. It has also been known as the Tagliacotian method, in honor of Gaspard Tagliacozzi, who, in 1597, wrote a treatise on it. It consisted in preparing the part to be reconstructed and loosen- ing a tongue of skin from some available portion of the arm or hand. After granulation was well established in both defects, the flap was brought into position by binding the member bearing it securely to the head. Owing to the length of time required for the granulations to appear, added to that for the healing process, and to the great inconvenience occasioned the patient, the proceeding was abandoned. In 1816, however, it was rescued from oblivion by Carl Ferdinand Graefe, who employed it in a modified form for blepharoplasty. Among other improvements, this surgeon hit upon that of .putting the flap into place at once without waiting for the granulation of the surfaces to be united. The method has found scant favor in the eyes of modern surgeons, still less in those of their patients. In this country it has been resorted to with success by R. H. Derby1 to replace the lids lost in an extensive burn of the face. Still more recently it has been revived in France by Prof. Paul Berger,2 the Parisian surgeon. In this admirable report, among much else of interest, Professor Berger details four cases in which he applied the Italian method to blepharoplasty. In three of them the reparation concerned the lower lid, and in the fourth both the upper and the lower. In the last case, death occurred from 1 Trans, of the Am. Oph. Society, 1885, p. 141.