99 l-i IRCI PS. the lid clamps. In fact, the two instruments cannot be separated into distinct classes, as one merges into the other. True, there arc- lid forceps and lid clamps, pure and simple, but more often it is a combination of forceps and clamp. The modern lid forceps spring from " Jagcr's T forceps. The original is still in use, as it deserves to be. Of course, it needs a locking attachment. This should be either the sliding catch or the old-fashioned screw, for in these the force of the grip can be regulated. The spring catch does not admit of any adjustment, either as regards grip or thickness of lid. Du- jardin's T forceps, on the same principle as Jager's, are too savage, because of their teeth. Lid clamps are usually some modification of that of Desmarres, i.e., the essential features are a plate to go beneath the lid, a ring, whose circumference coincides with the outer border of the plate, and a slide, or a screw, to lock the branches. Knap]) and Snellen enlarged the plate and left off that part of the ring corresponding to the free border of the lid. In order to still further enlarge the field for operating within the ring, Warlomont has devised an expansible plate that spreads out like a fan. This is placed, unexpanded, into the upper fornix, when, by turning a screw on the end of the handle, the moveable parts of the plate can be made to flare so as to put the cul-de-sac upon the stretch. The ring coincides with the expanded plate. This is evidently an im- provement over the older models when it is a epiestion of the more extended entropion operations, for example, as greater scope is afforded for free incisions. But for smaller operations, like chalazion, etc., the others are just as good, and they are far simpler and easier as to their keeping. For chalazion, Wilder's clamp is handy. (See "Chalazion.") For fixing or steadying the lid and for clamp- ing it to prevent hemorrhage in restoration of the free border, as also in median tarsorrhaphy, and to fix it in electrolysis of the cilia, the lid forceps invented by the writer1 (Plate VI, No. 79) is an efficient instrument. The branches, being attached at the ex- tremities of the jaws, are out of the way for work on either side of the clam] >. Hemostatic Forceps.—One must have two or three of the lightest pattern—Tate's or Halstead's model. Those with long branches—measuring 9.5 centimeters from the pivot to the extremity 1 Ophthalmic Record, Jan., 1905.