623 MAGNET OPERATIONS. his consent to the further operation if the operator deemed it ad- visable. As to the choice between exenteration and enucleation, the first is preferable except in cases where there would be risk through its selection of overlooking a dangerous foreign body in the orbit. In all recent cases it is most imperative that steps, looking to the riddance of the eye from a foreign body be taken at the earliest moment possible. The same may be said of the old cases that have but lately become inflamed because of the presence of one. More- over, the mere fact that foreign bodies have been known to lie in the vitreous from 20 to 40 years without inciting mischief is no sign that this will happen in any given case. Nor is great length of abode within the eye of necessity a bar to intervention. Magnet Operations.—The history of the removal of foreign bodies from the vitreous has been made mainly since the use of the magnet in the surgery of the eye. The first tentative in this con- nection was an ineffectual one by Meyer, of Minden, in 1842. The next, perhaps, was by Dixon, of London, in 1859, who succeeded in removing part of the blade of a pair of scissors that had been in the vitreous for four weeks. The steel could be indistinctly made out through the pupil. By means of a large, permanent magnet it was drawn close to the outer wall of the globe and extracted with forceps through a scleral incision. The eye was lost. It is only since 1870 that the magnet has acquired any real importance in the ophthalmic world. Previously, all eyes with foreign bodies in the vitreous had been considered either as doomed or else as bearing the sign "hands off!" Hence, no ,'nstrument had been designed for the ex- traction of a foreign body from any part of the interior of the eye. Knapp's spoon-hook for foreign body in the anterior chamber was about the first. In 1875, M'Keown, of Belfast, went further than had Dixon, in that he inserted the tip of a magnet through a scleral opening into the vitreous, and succeeded not on y in removing the foreign body, but also in saving the eye. This was the first instance in which the magnet was made to enter the eye. His example was soon followed by his compatriots, Snell and MacHardy, who published articles commending the method. The idea was taken up by Knapp, Griming, and others in America; Griining giving a very effective and convenient permanent hand magnet. To Hirschberg, of Berlin, however, belongs the credit of having rendered