SPONGES. 33 seldom used in eye surgery. The regulation shape is fusiform, and the sponges vary in size according to the nature of the operation with which they are to be used. Those destined for the surgery of the conjunctiva and the globe are the smallest, measuring, when freshly wrung, about two inches from tip to tip, and one- half inch across at the middle. For operations upon the lacrimal apparatus, for enucleations and the grosser plastic operations they are larger, and less fusiform. The property most essential in a sponge is great absorptivity. It is not alone sufficient that the cotton from which it is made is highly absorbent, the sponge must be compressed and damp. Dry cotton, no matter how fitting the quality, lacks this property; and so does damp cotton if in a loose wad. Besides, dry cotton is most objectionable in surgery because of the detached fibres getting into the wound and clinging to the instruments. To the most effective the sponge must be newly and tightly wrung out of the solution with which it is impregnated. It is a mistake, therefore, to make and wring, then sterilize them in the autoclave, and consider them ready for use. They are made too dry and too loose in this way. They should be freshly prepared from sterilized cotton. The hands of the one who makes them are clad in aseptic rubber gloves. Pieces of suitable size are pulled from the roll of cotton and fashioned into shape by the fingers and by rolling with the palms. They are then dropped into the antiseptic solution, covered securely, and left there till needed, when they are wrung again with the gloved hands, a few at a time and put on or in some sort of server. It should be remembered that the tips are the working parts, hence, they should be handled at their middles by both the surgeon and the aid who passes or uses them. By the operating table is an enameled jar with in- verted cone for cover, and truncated by an opening. Into this the discarded sponges are dropped, and not scattered promiscuously all around. Nurses and assistants need considerable training in the matter of sponging before venturing to help in this capacity at an operation. It is no mean art. They must know when to take the initiative, and when to wait for an order to apply; when to hold out the sponge for the operator to wipe an instrument upon, etc. The corneal epithelium is to be spared contact with the sponge whenever practicable. 3