THE PULLEY OPERATION OF PRINCE. J7S the thread. The loop was drawn far through and cut. Thus there were two threads which the surgeon proceeded to tie—not each end to its fellow, but each to the opposite end of the other thread. It will be seen by the foregoing descriptions that the thread finds its anchorage above and below the cornea save in the Critchett operation, where there is, in addition, a thread anchored between the cut end of the tendon and the cornea. There is another class of advancement methods wherein the only hold of the suture (or sutures), outside of that in the tendon, is between the latter and the cornea. A few of the more prominent of these will be described. The Pulley Operation of Prince.1—This is a procedure which, modified by its author at certain stages of its existence, has stood the test of nearly a quarter of a century, and is both efficient and origi- nal (Fig. 70). Its early name, however, is hardly applicable to its pres- ent form. As he first made the operation, and as I had the pleasure of seeing him perform it in 1884 while on a visit to Dr. Agnew at the Manhattan Eye and Ear Hospital, N. Y., while I was house surgeon to that institution, was thus: A vertical thread was put firmly in the episcleral tissue close up to the cornea on the side next the tendon to be advanced —quilted in for a distance of about 6 mm., and the ends, for the moment, left hanging free. He then exposed the tendon, clamped it with his advance- ment forceps, and severed it close to , Fig. 70.—Prince s hrst, <>r the sclera. While an assistant held the "pulley" operation, forceps, a double-armed thread was passed, from within outward, through the tendon, thus leaving a loop in its under side. Then, while the aid drew the tendon forward, one end of the double-armed thread was laid at right angles across the buried thread at the corneal margin and the latter was tied snugly over it. In this way was formed the pulley. Lastly, the two ends of the other thread were knotted and drawn taut, advancing the tendon. In order the more readily to distinguish the threads the vertical one, or pulley, was white, the other black. The yielding of the outside portion of the pulley 1 St. Louis Med. and Surg. Journal, 1881.