198 OPERATIONS UPON THE EXTRINSIC MUSCLES. tendons of the superior and inferior recti, or even complete tenotomies of them, and their reattachment to the sclera in a more favorable manner, by suturing. He has practised lateral displacement by partial tenotomy on the superior and inferior recti muscle chiefly for the correction of excess of convergence, and describes his method of operating. He claims this operation is followed by no diplopia and by no more reaction than ordinary complete tenotomy. Jackson considers lateral displacement of the tendon insertions of the superior and inferior recti, in connection with tenotomy of the internus, as an effective and reliable operation for high degrees of convergent squint. He begins with a complete tenotomy of the internus, and through the same conjunctival opening the scissors are intro- duced and the nasal one-half to three-fourths of the tendon of the superior or inferior rectus is divided at its insertion. He strips the edge of the tendon back one-half inch or more from the insertion by means of a strabismus hook. He cites a case where this opera- tion was performed successfully for a high degree of squint, and explains that no protrusion of the eyeball or other bad result has been observed. Now, while there are, now and then, instances wherein, after care- ful study of the muscular anomalies that are present, one is convinced that there is undue tension upon one edge of a broad tendon, and that unquestionably, a well-directed partial tenotomy is indicated. But to make anything like regular practice of this kind of strabotomy is to enter upon delicate ground and to invite indiscriminate intervention in the matter on the part of muscle-snippers. As said before, it is my belief that it is only exceptionally that one need consider the vertical muscles as factors in a squint, at least to the extent of attacking them surgically. And often even when they seem to be directly responsible for the defect, they are only indirectly so, i.e., merely because of a lack of balance or a want of dynamic adjustment on the part of the other two recti. In the pivotal attachment, just alluded to, had the internus and the externus been properly in rein, so to speak—rightly toned—there would probably have been no squint in either direction. Advancement for Secondary Squint.—A goodly percentage of the squints with which one has to deal are of this variety, and, while the surgical measures appropriate to some of them might