EXTRACTION OF CATARACT. incision and the right, beneath the cornea and then approximated them, expelling cataract, vitreous body, and all. The cause of this occurrence is usually the complete tearing away of the zonule in an eye with liquid vitreous. Various instruments have been used and advised for reclaiming the lens under these conditions, as also for delivering it when the vitreous is presenting or escaping; these include almost all the spoons, hooks, loops, and scoops from Daviel's down. The fenes- trated spoon of v. Graefe, the delicate wire loops of Weber and Snellen, and the vectis of Taylor, each of them has stood its advo- cates in good stead. The writer's preference, however, is for a modification of the sharp hook, commonly attributed to Tyrell and by some to Jaeger, but originated, I believe, by Beer. This sur- geon designed and employed the instrument as a tenaculum to draw out the iris in the operation of iridectomy. The modification con- sists merely in making the hook much less curved than is that of the regular pattern. Instead of being bent back upon itself, like a but- ton hook, it is about the shape of a miniature strabismus hook (v. Graefe's model), only, of course, sharpened. This straighten- ing out of the bend is to enable the point to catch readily in the lens substance, whereas the highly curved form might slip off (see chapter on Instruments). With such an instrument, insinuated flat- wise at the opening, pushed downward behind the cataract without turning, until the point is opposite to that body, then turned for- ward and thrust into it, it is surprising how easily, afid with what slight disturbance of the vitreous, the refractory cystalline may be slid along the anterior wall of the globe and out at the incision. Its displacing effect, as compared with any kind of spoon or even with the wire loop, is practically nil. In the event, however, of the lens turning turtle and dropping entirely out of sight, the sharp hook should not be plunged to the very bottom of the vitreous chamber, for fear of its fouling the inner tunics of the globe. If the cataract must be "fished" for—the depths of the vitreous dragged, as it were—then a delicate wire loop would be the safer instrument to employ. A few ophthalmic surgeons of great repute, among whom may be mentioned Snellen,1 advise the bandaging of the eye into whose 1 Graefe-Saemisch Handbook, Operationslehre, p. 47.