OPERATIONS UPON THE CONJUNCTIVA. 332 an artificial eye. The result was perfect. Four years after the operation it was still so. In April, 1899, the same surgeon,1 after vain attempts to relieve an extensive lower symblepharon by older methods, detached it freely and placed a large Thiersch graft over the defect thus made. This, too, was kept in place by means of the porcelain shell. The cornea was transparent over two-thirds of its area, yet the shell was well tolerated. In addition, the graft was stitched to the margins of the raw surfaces by delicate sutures. The graft adhered promptly and the symblepharon was cured. Fifteen months afterward the effect of the operation had not dimin- ished. In July and August, 1899, by two successive operations, Hotz2 relieved a nearly complete symblepharon of the upper lid, covering the raw surfaces, after dissection, with broad Thiersch grafts. Knowing of May's use of the porcelain shell to hold the graft in place and having no such shells at his disposal, he "cut from a thin sheet of lead an oval disk large enough that when slipped under the lids it would fill the whole space from the retrotarsal sulcus of the upper lid to that of the lower lid, and shaped and molded it so as to fit accurately the curvature of the ball. A Thiersch graft, taken from the arm, was spread out smoothly over the plate, epidermis toward the lead, in such a manner that it covered the upper two- thirds of both sides of the plate. Thus mounted, the plate was inserted under the lids as we insert an artificial eye. The lid borders were united by three sutures." The eye was dressed, and lid sutures removed on the fourth day. Although the graft was adherent throughout, the plate was worn four days longer. The second operation was for the purpose of piecing out with a Thiersch graft a small area that the first one failed to cover. The eye was sightless and the operation was to make a prothesis practi- cable. Dr. Hotz has just informed me that the patient is wearing the glass eye with perfect comfort at the present time (March, 1906). In November, 1901, Hotz^ presented at a meeting of the Chicago Medical Society a case wherein he had cured almost total lower symblepharon in a similar manner. Instead of the large plate, filling the entire conjunctival sac, as in the first case, he used one the size and shape of the inner aspect of the lower lid, with four small 1 Reported in Arch, of Oph., vol. xxx, No. 5, 1901. 2 Oph. Record, Nov., 1899. 3 Chicago Med. Recorder, Dec, 1901.