200 OPERATIONS UPON THE EXTRINSIC MUSCLES. written upon the spools or skeins of thread by the manufacturers; what is No. i in one make is No. 2 or No. 3 in another, and so on. Thread that has been treated with a preparation of wax or paraffin is vastly preferable for several reasons. It does not snarl, it does not make a track for bacteria, and, being nonabsorbent, is easier drawn through the tissues. It holds better because bacteria do not proliferate around it and soften the parts. If, at the first dressing, it is discovered that the thread has escaped from some part of its fastenings, the fault may, in some instances, be remedied by the judicious placing of a single new thread in such away as to counteract it. If merely too much dropping back of the tendon has occuired, without cutting out of the suture, I have been able, at times, in the one suture method, to pull the thread up tight again, twist it into a pedicle, and ligate it. Of course, if the thread is left in a bow knot at the time of the operation, the matter is simple enough. Advancing capsule and conjunctiva with the tendon. If this be done in too comprehensive a manner, it leads to restriction of motility by tightening the check ligament in the one instance, and to advancement of the caruncle and obliteration of the semilunar told in the other. Wounding and bruising of the parts should not only occur in the minimum degree, but should be kept as well forward as practi^ cable so as not to interfere with what Landolt calls the normal unrolling of the operated muscle upon the globe; in other words, the true advancement effect is nullified in proportion as the adhesions reach backward. Enophthalmos after advancement operations has been referred to as an objectionable feature. It is usually insignificant, yet it affords an additional argument for operating upon both eyes in the higher degrees of squint in order to prevent an apparent difference in the width of the palpebral fissures. GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS ON ADVANCEMENT. Age of Subject.—A squint operation would not, as a rule, be justifiable prior to the age when it could be ascertained whether or not other than surgical measures could avail. There are ex- ceptions, however, to this rule, as, for example, cases of congenital