TATTOOAGE OF THE CORNEA. 399 dome-shaped metal shields with various-sized circular openings at the top as guides to tattooage—those with the smaller perforations are for doing the pupillary area, those with the larger for the iris zone. The shield is held firmly on the globe while, with a four- needle instrument, the exposed space is rapidly pricked. The operation of tattooage has been decried by some because of a supposed tendency to produce sympathetic ophthalmia. I cannot see any reason for its being a dangerous procedure. It must be remembered that eyes that are afflicted with leucoma of the cornea are prone to inflammations and degenerative changes that some- times lead to sympathetic trouble. It were well, then, for his own peace of mind, if nothing more, that the surgeon exercise discretion in selecting cases for tattooage. The eye should be absolutely quiet, the globe in nowise atrophied, free from partial staphyloma, any extensive adhesions between iris and cornea, and from septic disease of the conjunctiva and lacrimal canal. Anatomic investigation of tattooed cornea by Alt,1 Browicz,2 Hirschberg,^ and others have shown that the particles of carbon which at first occupy the needle punctures almost immediately begin a slow migration, which probably never entirely ceases. After some months or a year, they are found sparsely among the deepest layers of epithelial cells, but their chief abiding place is in the anterior half of the stroma, being thickest in the layer immedi- ately beneath Bowman's membrane. They accumulate in the lymph spaces in the form of flakes and balls, while the smaller ones are dispersed among the neighboring structures, some enclosed by the corneal corpuscles and by the fixed and lymphoid cells. They even find their way into the walls and endothelium of the blood vessels. This dispersion, fortunately, is less rapid in proportion as the leucoma is dense, i.e., as the cornea is degenerated. Only pigments that are insoluble in water are suitable for tat- tooage, the best being ultramarine, cinnabar, sepia, ochre, and lampblack. Woinouv Vocher,s and Hock6 have written on multi- color tattooage. 'Am. Jour, of Ophy., i, p. 8, 1884. 2 A. S. ()., xxiii, 23, S. 212. 3A. S. ()., xxviii.i, S. 269. ff, 1882. Trans. Russian Scy. of Physicians, Moscow, 1872, No. 13. 5 Bull, et mem de la soc. franc, d'opht., 5 me annee, 1887, p. 24S. 6A. S. A. u. O., 1876, vol. i, S. 90-101.