OPERATIONS UPON THE LIDS. 212 As the eye fills with tears, the lids are sponged dry from time to time, for the forceps will not hold the cilia securely when they are wet. Electrolysis of the hair-follicles, something after the method of Michel,1 as an auxiliary to epilation, is the only sure means of permanently eradicating the cilia, and is particularly applicable to cases of trichiasis- where relatively few hairs grow inward, or, as it is termed, distichiasis. The requisite implements are an electric outfit, capable of furnishing a continuous current of from one to five milliamperes. The negative electrode is fitted with a fine, sharp needle (gold or platinum), the positive, with a sponge which is moistened with salt solution. Provided there is a rheostat or controlling switch, one may dispense with a galvanometer; indeed, the best means of regu- lating the energy is to immerse the two electrodes in a vessel of water and gradually turn on the current until the needle throws off a stream of tiny bubbles, indicative of the decomposition of the liquid. It is then ready for use. A valuable suggestion is that of Jourdan, of Frankfort a/M., to apply shellac to the needle, then to uncover the point by scraping. This greatly lessens the pain, since it protects the sensitive skin. It also prevents punctiform scars that might otherwise ensue. In order to introduce the needle with precision the operator wears strong, convex lenses or uses the binocular, stereoscopic loop. The patient may sit or lie. A lid spatula is inserted beneath the lid to steady it and to afford a purchase for holding and manip- ulating with the thumb. Or, better still, the Beard lid-forceps is clamped on (Fig. 91). The needle is pushed down alongside the shaft of the hair, till the point is well within the follicle (three to four mil- limeters) and the sponge electrode is applied to the adjacent temple or forehead. As soon as a boiling up of gas occurs around the needle, the sponge is lifted, or the connection button is released, the needle withdrawn and the hair lifted out. Lifted is the word, for if any traction is needed, it is a sign that the electrolysis has been incomplete and, to be effective, must be repeated. The performance is anything but agreeable to the victim, but the pain is much greater if the needle is taken out without stopping the current. 1 St. Louis Clinical Record, Oct., 1875.