640 THE REMOVAL OF FOREIGN BODIES. supports for holding the head are now adjusted by means of the wheel 1, and the jointed part of the apparatus, J, containing the indicator is brought down in position. The indicating ball, G, is now roughly adjusted until it is opposite the center of the cornea and about 12 or 15 mm. distant. The patient looks with the unin- jured eye into the mirror, M, and fixes upon the iris or cornea of the injured eye, or, better, upon the indicating ball in the center of the celluloid disk. The indicating ball is now carefully adjusted directly over the corneal center by means of the wheels 2 and 3, and the correctness of the position verified by observation through an opening in the mirror, M. The operator then adjusts the light of the small electric lamp so that the side of the nose next the injured eye is illuminated, but the light is not thrown into the eye. With this area lighted it is possible to see clearly through the telescope, T, when the cross-wire is exactly tangent with the summit of the cornea. The movement necessary to secure this position of the wire is made by means of the adjusting wheel 4. When the image of the cross-wire touches the image of the corneal summit, the indicating ball is exactly 10 mm. from the eyeball. "The photographic plate is inserted beneath the spring clips, C C, the shutters, S S, moved so that the center area is open (Fig. 283), and the tube-holder adjusted to the zero-point on the sliding scale. The current is turned on, and one exposure made. The tube-carriage is then moved to the limit of the sliding rod, always in the direction of the chin of the recumbent patient (to the end marked R if the radiographs are made of the right eye, and to L if of the left eye). The upper shutter is moved to cover the exposed central portion of the plate and uncover the upper unexposed portion. The current is again turned on and the second exposure made. The time of exposure for the second picture should be about one and a half times that of the first, to allow for the increased distance of the tube from the eye. "After the plate is developed it is placed in the frame, P (Fig. 283), containing the key-plate or focal coordinates (Fig. 286), with the film side of the radiograph next to the key-plate. The radiograph is moved until the shadow of the indicating ball of the first exposure is in apposition with the middle ball on the key-plate and the heavy horizontal line of the radiograph parallel with the horizontal line