OPERATIONS UPON THE GLOBE. 402 At times he also divided the latter. De Wecker1 made a similar operation which was named " cicatrisotomy." Tailor,2 under the name "internal sclerotomy," gave a measure, and for the execution thereof Vicentiiss designated an instrument consisting of a needle-like shaft, bearing at its extremity a tiny, sharp, sickle-shaped, or slightly curved blade, with the cutting edge on the convex side; blade and shaft being so designed that the latter effectually stops the incision made by the former and prevents the premature escape of aqueous. The blade is passed into the anterior chamber on a level with the horizontal diameter of the cornea, and 15 mm. in front of the limbus, carried across to the other side, where the convex edge is pushed into the angle of the iris; the handle is given a sort of rotary motion, whereby the scleral border of the iris is severed and the sclera itself cut to the depth of about 1 mm. The Scleriritomy of Nicati.^—The very narrow Graefe knife is passed through the anterior chamber at the bottom, with its edge in the angle of the iris. When the point is fairly through the conjunctiva on the opposite side, a quick, quarter turn is given the blade, bringing its plane at a right angle to that of the iris, edge backward. The aqueous here escapes, causing the knife to snip into the iris. Now, with a rapid movement, the blade is withdrawn, so manipulating the handle as to incise the root of the iris all the way. Care is taken to pry open the wound with the spatula to allow the blood to escape. The indications given are secondary glaucoma from incarceration of iris, cystoid scar, occlusion of the pupil, and primary senile glaucoma. Kniess gave what he termed " irido-sclerotomy," made, under myosis, by upward section with the Graefe knife, and in such a manner as to divide the root of the iris from the sclera in cutting out—as it were—a sort of iridodialysis. Sometimes a bridge of conjunctiva is left intact. The indications cited are the same as those for iridectomy and anterior sclerotomy in general. De Wecker's6 sclerotomie combinee has also as principal object the making of artificial iridodialysis. Myosis is produced, 1 Ann. d'oculiste, xciii, p. 10, 1885. 2 Annali di Ottal., xx, 1891, p. 117. 3 Soc. It. d'opht., 14 session, Venise, 1895. 4 Bull, et mem. de la soc. franc, d'opht., 1892, p. 278. s Vers, der Ophth. Ges. zu Heidelberg, 1893, S. 118. 6 Annal d'oculist., t. cxii, 1894, p. 261.