DOMESTIC COOKERY. 36 Old meats do not require so much dressing as youna;; not that they are sooner done, but they can be eaten with the gravy more in. In preparing meat for roasting, the cook must be careful that the spit be wiped before it is used, and at the time of serving, or its mark will appear in a black stain. She must avoid running the spit through the prime parts. In some joints, as necks, it may enter two bones from the end, run at the back until it comes to nearly the other end, and the prime of the meat will not be pierced. Leaden skewers of ditferent weights should be in readi- ness, for w^ant of which unskilful servants are often at a loss at the time of spitting. Cradle-spits answer best; they may be bought of different sizes. The joints of all necks and loins should be nicked before they are dressed. Time, distance, basting often, and a clear fire of a proper size for wdiat is required, are the first points of a good cook’s attention in roasting. A piece of writing-pajier should be twisted round the bone at the knuckle of a leg or shoulder of lamb, mutton, or venison, when roasted, before they are served. Meat and vegetables which the frost has touched should be soaked in cold water two or three hours before used, or more if they are much iced. Putting them to the fire, or into warm w’ater, till thawed, makes it impos- sible for any degree of heat to dress them afterwards. When you wish fried things to look as well as pos- sible, do them twice over with egg and crumbs. Bread that is not stale enough to grate quite fine will not look well. The fat you fry in must always be boiling-hot the moment the meat is put in, and kept so till finished; a small quantity never fries well. To keep meat hot.—It is best to take it up when done, though the company may not be come ; set the dish over a ])an of boiling rvater, put a deep tin cover over it so as not to touch the meat, and then throw a cloth over that. This w ay dries the gravy less than hot hearths of iron ; but in w hatever way the heat be preserved, it is a very