POULTKY'YARD. 363 If the eggs of any other sort are put under a hen with some of her own, observe to add her own as many days after the others as there is a difference in the length of their sitting. A turkey and duck sit thirty days. Choose large clear eggs to put her upon, and such a number as she can properly cover. If very large eggs, there are sometimes two yolks, and of course neither will be pro- ductive. Ten or twelve are quite enough. A hen-house should l)e large and high; and should be frequently cleaned out, or the vermin of fowls will in- crease greatly. But hens mirst not be disturbed while sitting; for, if frightened, they sometimes forsake their nests. Wormwood and rue should be planted plenti- fully about their houses : boil some of the former, and sprinkle it about the floor, which should be of smooth earth, not paved. The windows of the house should be open to the rising sun ; and a hole must be left at the door, to let the smaller fowls go in ; the larger may be let ^n and out by opening the door. There should be a small sliding board to shut down when the fowls are gone to roost, which would prevent the small beasts of prey from committing ravages; and a good strong door and lock may possibly, in some measiue, prevent the depredations of human enemies. When some of the chickens are hatched long before the others, it may be necessary to keep them in a basket of wool till the others come forth. The day after they are hatched give them some crumbs of white bread, and small (or rather cracked) grits soaked in milk. As soon as they have gained a little strength, feed them with curd, cheese-parings cut small, or any soft food, but nothing sour; and give them clean water twice a day. Keep the hen under a pen till the young have strength to follow her about, which will be in two or three weeks ; and be sure to feed her well. The food of fowls goes first into their crop, which softens it, and then passes into the gizzard, which by constant friction macerates it, and this is facilitated by