31; MEATS. like it when it has much of the haut-gout; but it bears keeping better than any sort of meat; and if eaten fresh killed, it is not so good as mutton. Beef.—If the flesh of ox-beef be good, it will have a fine smooth open grain, he of a good red, and feel ten- der. The fat should look white rather than yellow ; for; when that is of a deep colour, the meat is seldom good : beef fed by oil-cakes is in general so, and the flesh is flabby. The grain of cow-beef is closer, and the fat whiter than that of ox-beef; but the lean is not of so bright a red. The grain of bull-beef is coarser and closer still, the fat hard and skinny, the lean of a deep red, and it has a stronger scent. Ox-beef is the reverse. Ox-beef is the richest and largest; but in small families, and to some tastes, heifer-beef is preferred, if finely fed. In old meat, a streak of horn runs between the fat and lean of the sirloin and rihs : the harder this is the older • and the flesh is not finely-flavoured. Veal.—The flesh of a bull-calf is firmest, but not so vvhite. The fillet of the cow-calf is generally preferred for the udder. The whitest is not the most juicy, having., become so by frequent bleeding and licking chalk. Choose the meat of which the kidney is well covered with white thick fat. If the bloody vein in the shoulder looks blue, or of a bright red, it is newly killed ; but any other co- lour shows it to be stale. The other parts should be dry and white ; if clammy or spotted, the meat is stale and bad. The kidney turns first, and the suet will not then. he firm. Mutton.—Choose this by the fineness of its grain, good colour, and firm white fat. It is not the better for being young: for if of a good breed and well fed, it is better for age; but this only holds with wether mutton. The flesh of the ewe is paler, and the texture finer; but the meat is not so rich or well flavoured, nor is the gravy so fine. Ram-mutton is very strong flavoured, the flesh is of a deep red, and the fat is spongy.—Wether is dis- tinguished likewise by a knob of fat on the leg, where, in ewe mutton, is the udder.