355 DAIRY. strain it off; and when only milk-w'arm, pour it on the veil (that is, the maw). Slice a lemon into it; let it stand two days; strain it again, and bottle it for use. It will keep good at least twelve months, and has a very fine flavour. You may add any sweet aromatic herbs to the above. It must he pretty salt, but not brine. A little Avill do for turning. Salt the veil again for a week or two, and dry it stretched on sticks crossed, and it will be nearly as strong as ever. Do not keep it in a hot place when dry. To make Cheese. Put the milk into a large tub, warming a part till it is 'of a degree of heat quite equal to new; if too hot, the cheese will be tough. Put in as much rennet as will turn it, and cover it over. Let it stand till completely turned; then strike the curd down several times with the skimming-dish, and let it separate, still covering it. There are two modes of breaking the curd ; and there will be a difference in the taste of the cheese, according as either is observed; one is, to gather it with the hands very gently towards the side of the tub, letting the whey pass through the fingers till it is cleared, and lading it off as it collects. The other is, to get the whey from it by early breaking the curd; the last method deprives it of many of its oily particles, and is therefore less proper. Put the vat on a ladder over the tub, and fill it with curd by the skimmer: press the curd close with your hand, and add more as it sinks; and it must be finally left two inches above the edge. Before the vat is filled, the clieese-cloth must be laid at the bottom; and when full, drawn smooth over on all sides. There are two modes of salting cheese; one by mixing it in the curd while in the tub after the whey is out; and the other by putting it in the vat, and crumbling the curd all to pieces with it, after the first squeezing with the hands has dried it. The first method appears best on some accounts, but not on all, and therefore the custom of the country must direct. Put a board under 2 A 2