DOMESTIC COOKERY. 352 and either be dressed with soft ointment, or done with spirits and water. If the former, great cleanliness is ne- cessary. The milk, at these times, should he given to the pigs. When the milk is brought into the dairy, it should be strained and emptied into clean pans immediately in. winter, but not till cool in summer. White ware is pre- ferable, as the red is porous, and cannot be so thoroughly scalded. The greatest possible attention must be paid to clean- liness ill a dairy; all the utensils, shelves, dressers, and the floor, should be kept with tlie most perfect neatness, and cold water thrown over every part very often. There should be shutters to keep out the sun and the hot air. Meat hung in a dairy will spoil milk. The cows should be milked at a regular and early hour, and the udders emptied, or the quantity will de- crease. The quantity of milk depends on many causes, as the goodness, breed, and health of the cow, the pas- ture, the length of time from calving, the having plenty of clean water in the field she feeds in, &c. A change of pasture will tend to increase it. People who attend properly to the dairy will feed the cows particularly well two or three weeks before they calve, which makes the milk more abundant after. In gentlemen’s dairies more attention is paid to the size and beauty of the cows than to their produce, which dairymen look most to. For making cheese, the cows should calve from Lady- day to May, that the large quantity of milk may come into use about the same time; but in gentlemen’s fami- lies, one or two should calve in August or September, for a supply in winter. In good pastures, the average produce of a dairy is about three gallons a day each cow, from Lady-day to Michaelmas, and from thence to Christmas, one gallon a day. Cows will be profitable' milkers to fourteen or fifteen years of age, if of a proper breed. When a calf is to be reared, it should be taken from the cow in a week at furthest, or it will cause great