DOMESTIC COOKERY. 23S s lieaten whites of two eggs, reserving a teaspoonfnl to he used as hereafter directed. Meantime take the hones and fins from four or five little red-mullet, without in- juring the skin, and cut them lengthways, an inch wide; do the same by a good-sized sole, having split, but not removed any of the skin. Then stew a small veal sweet- bread, a fresh artichoke bottom, eight oysters without the heard, and two truffles cut in bits, a quarter of an hour, in a little butter, and let it become cold. When all the above are in readiness, line a casserole of five or six inches in diameter, with long slices of fat bacon, placed quite close, in the centre of which lay four bits of carrot cut diamond shape, lengthways; cover the bacon with the strips of fish perfectly united, alternately putting the brown and white of the sole, and the red of the mullet next to the bacon, and on these half the force- meat : then put in the sweetbread, &c., which cover with the remainder of the forcemeat, smoothing it over wfith the back of a spoon wetted with the white of the egg before directed to be preserved. Lay on it a buttered paper, put the cover of the pan on, and bake twenty minutes. When done turn the granade on the lid to drain, carefully remove the bacon without breaking the skin of the fish, and serve very hot, with rich veal gravy round, not over it. The entrails of the mullet will give addi- tional flavour to the forcemeat. Where they cannot be had, the red part of lobsters used alternately with the brown and white of the sole, or mackerel, will look beautiful. A similar dish may be made by substituting the flesh of hare, the white part of partridge, and ham for the fish; the little ragout of sweetbread, &c., as before; and a forcemeat made of cold game, the liver of young fowls, the fat and lean of fine ham, eggs, butter, herbs, and spice as in the above. Grenadier de Jit et de Sole. — Sole with Forcemeat and Gherkins. Split a fine sole downwards, take out the bone, and