^^TT^^-.^^ ^^^^^/^^^^^^^ -CLINICAL SURGERY.Digitized by tlie Internet Arclnive in 2015 I https://archive.org/details/b21922743LECTURES AND OBSERVATIONS ON CLINICAL SURGERY. FELLOW OF THE ROYAL COLLEGE OF SURGEONS IN IRELAND, PROFESSOR OF SURGERY IN THE SCHOOL OF THE » -APOTHECAKIES' HALL, CECILIA-STREET, AND V ^ ' J 'i .SURGEON TO JERVIS-STREET HOSPITAL. DUBLIN: FANNIN & Co. LONDON: LONGMAN & Co. and H. RENSHAW. EDINBURGH : MACLAGHLAN, STEWART & Co. 1846. BY ANDREW ELLISGoodwin, Suti ^ Nethercott, Printers, 79, Marlboroiigh-itrcet.THE MEDICAL STUDENTS OF GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND, THIS VOLUME IS AS A SMALL TOKEN OF THE RESPECT AND ESTEEM ENTERTAINED EOR THEM, BY THEIR OBLIGED FRIEND, THE AUTHOR.IPREFACE. The following pages contain the substance of a few Clinical Lectures, delivered by me, in the Jervis-street Hospital, together with an account of the cases which sug- gested them. The last chapter constitutes an exception to this statement; inasmuch, as the Lecture it contains M^as not delivered in the hospital, but in the School of Medicine, Ceciha-street. In pubhslung the Lectui-es, I am acting in conformity with the expressed desire of some of the pupils, who attended the hospital during the last Medical Session. I beheve every lecturer is occasionally asked by some of his pupils, when lecture is over, " what book he would recommend them to consult on the subject of the lecture.'''' I have often found it difficult to give satisfactoiy answers to such questions, when put to me, in reference to the sub- jects treated of in this work. ■\¥lien I express myself thus, I freely admit that a great deal of valuable information, relative to the subjects specially considered in this volume, may be found scattered tliroughout the works of former writers. Wliilst I gladly availed myself of the experience and labours of others, and carefully selected and aiTanged whatever appeared to me likely to be of use to the student.Vni PEEFACE. I have not hesitated in expressing my opinion on what seemed to be founded in error, or calciilated to mislead the uninformed. The reader may, perhaps, discover something ]iovel in the following pages, either explanatory of facts previously known, or suggestive of original views. I will not venture to assert, that any explanations or opinions originating with myself, are Hkely to prove useful either to science, or the public; at the same time, I am inclined to tliink, that their calm consideration may be deemed interesting by the im- partial reader. As the Lectm-es were delivered extemporaneously, and subsequently prepared for the press, from notes taken at the time, I tnist that the reader will make allowance for the familiarity of style, and frequent repetition of trite sentences which pervade the work. It having been my duty to im- part information to a mixed audience, composed of students of different capacities, I felt I could accompHsh the object in view better, by addressing them in plain simple language, than by attending to select phraseology, and the formal construction of rounded periods. A. ELLIS. Stephen's Green, Dublin.CONTEXTS. CHAPTER I. Page, Introductory Lecture—Medical education.—The necessity of scientific information.—Science without a practical knowledge comparatively useless.—The impossibility of becoming a fellow of the Dublin College of Surgeons without a practical knowledge of Surgery—The Sujaplemental Charter.—Sir James Graham's bill of Medical Reform.—Doctor Gray's analysis of the bill.—Advice to Students.—The diffi- culties the young practitioner has to contend with, and how to meet them.—The peculiar fitness of the Jervis-street Hosintal for the instruction of Students. Concluding observations 7 CHAPTER II. Lecture II.—Wounds of arteries and their effects.— Structure and properties of arteries.—The natural and scientific methods of restraining arterial hemor- rhages—Five cases of suicidal wounds of the throat, m one of which the common carotid was successfully tied—Practical observations on the casesCONTENTS. X CHAPTER III. Page. Lecture III.—Traumatic aneurisms and their varie- ties.—The surgical anatomy of the bend of the arm.— Diffused and circumscribed false aneurisms.—Varicose aneurism, and aneurismal varix.—Temporal aneu- risms.—The symptoms, pathology, and treatment of all, illustrated by cases 48 CHAPTER IV. Lecture IV.—Injiu-ies of the head and their varie- ties.—Anatomical peculiarities of the scalp.—Contu- sions of the scalp and their effects.—Bloody tumours and their modifications.—Simple-incised, lacerated, contused and punctured wounds of the scalp, and the bad consequences which may result from them.— Erysipelas in general.—Idiopathic and traumatic ery- sipelas of the head and face, illustrated by cases.— Practical remarks on the cases . . • . 7^ CHAPTER V. Lecture V.—General observations on the functions of the brain.—The effects of a defective, or an excessive supply of blood.—The pathology of syncope and apoplexy.—The bad consequences produced on the brain by external injuries, viz.—Concussion, compres- sion, and inflammation.—Mr. Abernethy's opinions on concussion and compression.—Objections to Mr. Abernethy's doctrines.—The impossibility of forming a correct diagnosis between concussion and compres- sion, by an abstract consideration of symptoms only.— Mixed cases and their treatment—Division of suchXI CONTENTS. Page. inflammations of the brain and its membranes as re- sult from external violence, into primary and se- condary.—The symptoms, pathology, and treatment of each.—Mr. Pott's opinions not confirmed by the experience of others.—Cases with comments . . 103 CHAPTER VI. Lecture VI.—Compression of the brain.—Its causes, viz.—Fractures, extravasations of blood.—Foreign bodies, pus, &c.—The use and abuse of the tre- phine.—General precepts.—Hernise cerebri.—Cases and observations . . . . . ^ .130 CHAPTER VII. Lecture VII.—Peritonitis—its causes—symptoms and pathological effects.-^The diseases with which peri- tonitis might be confounded, viz.—Colic, retention of urine.—Hysteria.—The passage of biliary calculi.— , Dysentery.—Cholera, &c.—The treatment of peri- tonitis.—Wounds of ihe abdomen, and their varie- ties.—Superficial and penetrating wounds and their effects • . . . . \Q2 CHAPTER VIII. Lecture VIII.—Wounds of the abdomen continued.— Injuries of the intestines.—Extravasations.—Cases and observations • . . . , 183 CHAPTER IX. Lecture IX.—Delirium tremens, its symptoms, patho- logy, and causes.—The diseases with which it might be confounded.—Three cases with observations, and a comparative view of the effects of the medicines em- ployed in the treatment of them . . . .207I xii CONTENTS. CHAPTER X. Page. Lecture X.—Catalepsy and ecstacy.—Their symptoms and causes illustrated by cases.—An interesting case where mutism supei-vened and continued for forty- tlu-ee days.—The treatment of the case with observa- tions ......... 224 CHAPTER XI. Lecture XI Hydrophobia.— Objection to thename.— Description of the symptoms both in the dog and human subject.—The diseases with which it might be con- founded.—The diagnostic symptoms.—The composi- tion of the various supposed antidotes and specifics— The Ormskirk medicine—The Tonquin medicine.— Dr. Mead's antidote.—Jew's-ear.—Palmerius' pow- der.—The treatment of Hydrophobia.—Supplemental observations tending to prove that a tame, or healthy dog may produce hydrophobia in the human subject.— Twelve cases in support of this opinion.—Concluding observations.CLINICAL SUEGEEY. INTEODUCTOEY LECTUEE. Gentlemen, It is usual iii aU recognized hospitals, at the commence- ment of the medical session, for one of the medical of&cers of the institution, to address the pupils, to explain to them the nature of their studies, and point out the best way of em- ploying theu- time with a view of acquu-mg a practical knowledge of theu- profession. Tliis duty has. fallen to my lot on the present occasion; I wiU not detain you with any lengthened prefatory remarks, but at once proceed to make such observations, as appear to me calculated to interest and instruct the junior part of my hearers. The education of a professional man may be divided into two species; one of which, I will call common, the other special: by the former, I mean that species of education which is common to most gentlemen; and by the latter I understand a pecuhar form of education, by wliich a know- ledge of any particular profession may be acquii-ed. When early years have been devoted to the acquisition of a hberal education, the seeds of reason wliich were sown by theCLINICAL SURGERY. 2 Author of nature become quickly matured, the judgment formed, and the youth begms to contemplate how he can most advantageously spend liis future life; he turns his thoughts in pursuit of that darhng of our choice, that phan- tom of our imagination called happiness, wliich, although we are aU anxiously pursuing, few can obtam. Here I may observe, that the Disposer of aU tilings, in the infinity of His wisdom, has varied our tastes and dispositions; and also, the objects of our desires. "We, accordingly, find one man pursue happiness in the sports of the field; a second seeks it in the retirement of his study; and whilst a third can enjoy notliing but sobriety and riches; a fourth glories in debauchery and extravagance ! Thus, Gentlemen, you may perceive whilst that great developer of events. Time, by his rapid progression matures the man, his wheel of perpetual motion never fails iu turning up new objects and pursuits for human enjoyment. Amidst tliis varied scene of pursuits and employments, the medical profession has fallen to our lot; and when we reflect upon the sources whence it sprang, and the noble ends for wliich it was called into existence, we have abun- dant reason to be satisfied with our choice. It is not my intention, on the present occasion, to enter upon a systema- tic review of the origin and progress of the healing art; although such a naiTative might amuse the medical liistorian, it would be nearly barren of useful information; I will, therefore, merely observe that it grew out of human misery, that it was at first cultivated by the ministers of rehgion, who combined the works of spiritual yvith those of temporal mercy ; that it has been progressively advancing for many .centuries ; and, that in its present improved state, there is3 INTRODUCTORY LECTURE. no profession so interesting, so learned, and so demonstra- tively useful as it is I Gentlemen, I speak not in the lan- guage of the advocate or partisan, I am stating facts wMcli require but little argument for tlieir elucidation. Tlie attentive consideration of any one natural object, is deemed interesting by tbe man of philosophic mind; if so, how very interesting must the profession be considered, which has for its objects the presei-vation of health, the cure of disease, the prolongation of life, or the making easy of death. A wise philosopher has said that there is no study so interesting to man as that of man liimself. Wlien I say ours is the most learned of the learned professions, I do not wish to institute invidious comparisons; however, it must at once be admitted, that the profession is very learned which includes within the comprehensive grasp of its study, all those sciences, through wliich alone, a correct knowledge of the qualities of aU natiu-al objects can be obtained. The utiKty of the medical profession cannot be questioned, when it is a weU-known fact, that its members are, by the judici- ous exercise of the power it supplies, enabled to restore health to the sick, sight to the bhnd, and in many instances, to deprive disease of its victim, and Death of Ins contem- plated prey! In fact, the heahng art is so scientific in its study, and so varied in its objects, that whilst it affords the philosopher scope for the exercise of his genius, and. the worldhng an opportunity of reahzing riches and honour, it furnishes the charitable and humane with the power of aUe- viating human suffering. Gentlemen, wliilst thus remarkuig on the profession, which some of you may not as yet have finally adopted as yom- choice, I feel I would be guilty of a derehction of duty, were I not4 CLINICAL SURGERt. to present fairly, both sides of the picture for your serious consideration. The troubled ocean may present a smooth sui-face to the eye of the distant observer, but it is only he who is placed in the midst of the breakers, can foi-m a just estunate of the violence of the storm. In Kke manner, to a person who does not look beyond the surface of thmgs, our profession might appear the most fascinating of human IDursuits, and that it must necessarily lead to prosperity and happiness. Beware of the delusion; when you embark in the medical profession you must not expect to reehne on a bed of roses. No; you must make up your mind to hard study, and calculate on consuming much time and much of the ''midnight oil" in the acquisition of knowledge. "When you have surmounted the drudgery of the student, you must expect to meet with vexatious disappointments, and learn how to bear with indifference, the shght and ingrati- tude of false friends; you should hkewise be prepared to ward off the shafts of calumny which may be aimed at youi- professional reputation by jealous rivals. WeU, notAvith- standing the numerous and various impedunents which m- terrupt and annoy the medical practitioner in his journey thi-ough hfe, stiU even in tins respect he cannot complain of exclusive suffering; for, it appears so ordained by Providence that all classes and grades m society must bear their pro- portion of the alloy of tliis worid. Indeed, I beheve that the study and practice of oiu- profession are not more disa- greeable than those of others ; nay more, to a person of an inteUigent and well-regulated mind, they must be both gra- tifying and instructive. To contemplate the wonderful phenomena of Hfe; to observe and study the laws of dis- s; and watch the secret working of nature, are circuin- ease5 INTRODUCTORY LECTURE. stances so obviously interesting, tliat few can fail to admire tliem. However, Gentlemen, it must not be forgotten tliat tlie medical profession is one of great responsibility; it therefore behoves every man, who vrishes to discharge his duty conscientiously, and to practise with an easy mind, to be well informed. To point out such a course of study as I think necessary for the observance of students in medicine and surgeiy, is a duty which I shall now attempt to fulfil. The products of nature are so intimately blended together, that it is impossible to become perfectly accpainted with any one of them, by studying that one abstractedly. In Kke man- ner, the different sciences are so united by a chain of mutual dependence, that you cannot arrive at a knowledge of any one of them, without studying many which have relation to that one; or, to use the language of Blackstone, " Sciences are of a sociable disposition, and always flourish best when in company with each other." Hence it is, that medical information, like aU treasures, is difficult of attainment. The student who wishes to be well-informed should proceed slowly, and as he goes on, pay attention to the munerous sciences, the assemblage of wliich constitute the splendid edifice of the medical profession. Gentlemen, it is not the province of a clinical lecturer to dwell at any length in dis- cussing the relative merits of the different sciences wliich relate to the medical profession. The combined authorities of all the medical corporations have declared in their bye- laws that you mjist attend to them. Be not deceived, and imagine that a mere knowledge of the different sciences, win necessarily make you good practitioners in medicine and siu-gery; on the contrary, you might be profound natural- ists, and deeply read ui science, and yet ignorant of many6 CLINICAL SURGERY. important phenomena wliich relate to the medical profession. There are numerous well-known facts connected ^vith the animal economy, wliich cannot be explained by the light of science, or revealed by our present doctrines of final causes. Eor instance, what physiologist of the age can teU why the brain is the seat of the intellectual faculties, or how it per- forms its functions ? We cannot explain how the nerves feel or the stomach digests; and we are likewise ignorant of the manner in wliich glandular secretion is accomphshed. Our present knowledge of the laws of the animal economy does not enable us to account for these interesting pheno- mena, yet we are convinced of the facts, by the unques- tionable authorities of observation and experience. Gentle- men, in making these statements, my object is neither to discourage you, or mystify your studies; but to convince you, if I can, of the absolute necessity of personal obser- vation in acquiring di. practical knowledge of your profession. This kind of information cannot be acquired by reading and attending lectures only. No; the symptoms and effects of disease can be but imperfectly described by the best lectu- rers ; and why certain articles of the Materia Medica pro- duce their specific influence on the human body, and on the disease, for the cure of which they are administered, could never be foretold by reasoning from their chemical proper- ties. It was neither by our knowledge of the laws of the animal economy, nor those of chemistry, that we have learned that ammonia is a stimulant, opium a sedative, hippo an emetic, &c. &c. No; our information, on these subjects, has been derived from observation and experience j yes, ob- servation at the bed-side of sickness, and experience in the Avide field of disease!INTRODUCTORY LECTURE. Gentlemen, medical students usually commencej or re- sume tlieii- studies in the month of November, when they appear to form resolutions in their own minds, to lose no opportunity of instruction; they accordingly, run from lec- ture to lecture, from hospital to hospital, in pursuit of knowledge. Unfortunately, this devotion to study is seldom of long duration; the effort, from its greatness, appears to exhaust itself. The pupil, after some time, happens to miss a lecture or a visit to the hospital; he gradually becomes less scrupulous about these matters, and consoles himseK by • saying that " I will have plenty of time to pull up before the session is overand so the zeal of November becomes extiuguished long before the arrival of the wished for May ! Let us now, dispassionately inquire what is the cause of tliis lamentable decline in the industry of the students ? Many persons would find a convenient solution of tliis question, by attributing it to the idleness of the students. This is by no means a fair or impartial explanation. Many years'* experience both as a lecturer, and an hospital surgeon, has convinced me that the fault does not always rest with the student, but oftentimes with the persons who had mdertaken to instruct them, but who appeared to have forgotten their duties on receipt of their fees. Gentlemen, I would earnestly entreat of you to avoid ex- tremes iu prosecuting your studies. Do not one day hurry on with unnecessary and ridiculous speed, and, perhaps in n few days after relax into culpable idleness. Let system be your mode of acting; it will enable you to overcome every obtacle. In your attendance on lectures be not over anxious to take copious notes; exercise your memory in preference to your pen. When you return home in the evening, con-8 CLINICAL SURGERY. suit some approved author, on the subject of the lecture you had heard during the day; compare the opinions of the author, with those of the lecturer, and the probability is that you will arrive at a safe conclusion. In your attendance on hospital practice bear constantly m mind, that you have a right to be there, and to all the information the institution can afford. Do not hesitate to ask the medical officers any question you think proper, in reference to the symptoms and treatment of the cases in the wards. Eemember, it is your duty to learn and theirs to instruct. Be not content with what is called "walking the hospital." You should » exercise your organs of sense in preference to those of locomotion: they are the true inlets of information; or to use the language of Aristotle, " Nihil est in intellectu qtiod non prim fuerit in sensu." Do not rely too much on the descriptions of disease given by lectiirers; the most ac- compHshed speaker will often fail to impress on the minds of Ms hearers an accurate conception of the symptoms of the case ■under consideration. Tor example, what language can clearly delineate the contracted features, the hollow eyes; and the coiuitenance, at once expressive of pain, anxiety, and exhaustion, as manifested in a patient suffering from peritoneal inflammation; or the distorted fea- tures of a person afflicted with tetanus ? It would be im- possible to describe by words, the countenance, at once ex- pressive of fear and rage, as seen in cases of hydrophobia. I feel it is scarcely necessary for me to remind you, that in our mtercourse with patients, it is our duty to treat them with kindness, and that nothing could be more cruel or un- justifiable if, when dressing wounds, or, adjusting fractures.INTRODUCTORY LECTURE. 9 dislocations, &c. &cc., we sliotild put tliem to unnecessary pain by carelesness or rude liandling. Unfortunately, there is an impression on the pubhc mind, that surgeons are destitute of feeling. This is, certainly, a most unfair and insulting charge; but the best way to refute it is by acts of kindness to those confided to our care. It is true, that in fonner times, some veiy uncouth and remorseless beings were to be met with in the surgical profession; but those purveyors of death have nearly all been disposed of, by the unsparing hand of their employer ! Gentlemen, I have liitherto en- deavoured to impress upon you the necessity of strict atten- tion to hospital practice, as a duty winch you owe to the pubhc, your parents, and yourselves. I will now endeavour to prove to you that without a practical knowledge of your profession, it will, in future, be very dif&cult, if not impossi- ble, to obtain a surgical degree. Some of you are probably aware, that the Secretary of State, (Sir James Graham,) brought a bill before parhament during the last session, professing to be a bill of medical reform, although not called so by name. The introduction of such a bin could not fail to produce great excitement both in the medical profession, and the pubhc mind. My talented and distinguished friend Dr. Gray, wrote the pamplilet I hold in my hand, which contains a critical analysis of every clause in the bill, and concludes with the following most important passage :— "there is not a PRACTICAL EXAMINATION. "I look upon Sir James Graham's bill then, as defective m the great requisite of providing guarantees of compe- tency. The age at which the general practitioner is allo^V(Hl B 2CLINICAL SURGERY. to be licensed (31,) hardly permits of his being well edu- cated ; yet, were a proper system of study and examination adopted, competency might be attained even at that early age. I would suggest that examinations of the candidates should be instituted, at least, at two separate periods; and that tliis should be provided for by the bill. That at the first examination the students knowledge of the acces- sary sciences should be tested by practical and demon- strative examinations in the laboratory, dead room, &c. &c. That having proved his efficiency in these matters, he should devote a period of years principally to the study of disease in hospitals and dispensaries, and then undergo a final ex- amination at the bed-side." The publication of this pamplilet, or rather the important suggestion contained in the passage I have just read, could not fail to make a strong impression on the minds of the most distinguished members of the medical profession in Ireland and the sister kingdom. The consequence was, that both the London and Dublin press took up the subject warmly; and I feel a pride in being able to state to you, that the Council of the Dublin College of Surgeons, have already availed themselves of this most valuable suggestion by adopting the following regulations, for admission to the Fellowship of the College, as set forth in the Medical Press of the 24th September, 1845 :— " ROYAL COLLEGE OF SURGEONS IN IRELAND. "The Council hereby give notice, that in future the following exercises shaU be performed by candidates for the fellowship, viz:— " First day—The candidates shall attend at the collegeINTRODUCTORY LECTURE. 11 from two until four o'clock, during which time they shall prepare written answers to questions submitted to them by the examiners. " Second day—The candidates shall attend at an hospital, to be named by the Council, at the hour of two o'clock, where one or more patients shall be submitted to the obser- vation of each candidate for such length of time as the examiners in. medicirie and surgery shall deem sufficient for taking notes of the cases. The candidates wiU then be requested to attend in the theatre of the hospital to be examined verbally upon the same. "Tliird day—^The canchdates shall attend ia the theatre of the college at the hour of two o'clock, where a subject will be provided, and the candidates required to perform such operations, or make such demonstrations as the exam- iners may require. " The next fellowship examination will be held on Monday the 1st, Tuesday the 2nd, and Wednesday the 3rd of De- cember, 1845. " Candidates will be required to lodge the necessary docu- ments, on or before Saturday the 15 th day of November. "Bj order of the Council, "H. Maunsell, Secretary/." Gentlemen—When this important change was first in- troduced by our distinguished President, I am happy to tell you, that there was not one dissentient voice raised in the Council of the college, against the adoption of the foregoing regulations. Having the honor of being a member of the Council, I was present at every tiling that occurred on this subject, you may, therefore, consider ine tolerably goodCLINICAL SURGERY. 12 authority. I am credibly informed, that the Council of the London College of Surgeons are about to adopt the exam- ple we have set them in Dublin; and, indeed, I am firmly persuaded that a similar bye-law will, ere long, be adopted in reference to the admission of licentiates into the Colleges of Surgeons; and I am inchned to the opinion that the Colleges of Physicians will be ashamed not to adopt a system so obviously useful to the profession and the pubhc. Gentlemen—I can easily suppose that some of you are at tliis moment soliloquising to the following effect—" It is very dtSicult to get into the medical profession; I have very little money at my disposal, my friends are neither rich nor influential; and, indeed, I may say, I have no patronage in liigh quarters, and consequently if I were the best informed medical man in Dubhn on to-moiTow, I do not think I would succeed in practice; my friend Dr. is the best informed man I ever met with on every subject, yet he is (poor fellow) pining away unlieeded by the pubhc, and in a condition bordering on despair. On the other hand, I see men distinguished only hy their ignorance, in the estimation of the most competent judges, (their medical brethren), who have by mannerism, sectarian influence, and serviHty, wormed themselves into the good opinion of the pubhc, and are anxiously sought after." I must admit that tliis strain of reflection is justified by facts; but you should not indulge in such gloomy anticipations : you know Dr. Johnson teUs us that a medical man is "a chance playtliing m the hands of the public, that those who employ him don^'t know liis ignorance, and those who reject liim don't know Ms merits." The celebrated lawyer Curran, has stated that the brightestINTRODUCTORY XECTURE. 13 prospect a young lawyer could have, is to be called to the bar without a shilling in his pocket. It is universally admitted that there is no stimulus so powerful as that of necessity; add to tliis; the acknowledged ti-uth—first enunciated by Bacon—that ''knowledge is power/' It is by the skill of the educated general that the field of victory is won, rather than by the physical force of his army. It is by his knowledge of the science of navigation that the mariner is enabled to guide his ship through the track- less deep. It is his knowledge of anatomy wliich enables the surgeon to perform with confidence, ease, and safety, the most formidable operations which faU within the range of practical surgery; and, it was his knowledge of the ahnost illhnitable nature of human capability which induced the poet to address Ins readers in the following terms : " Go, wond'rous creatures, mount where science guides; Weigh air, measure earth, and calculate the tides." You will natui-aQy ask, if this hospital be calculated to afford you a fair opportunity of acquiring a practical knowledge of your profession ? Having a personal interest in the arrangements of the institution, I feel some dehcacy m answering the question, merely on my own authority. However, I beg to assure you that the general recognition of the certificates of attendance upon it, by the medical and surgical corporations in Great Britain and Ireland, fully proclaims its fitness for the objects you have in view. On referring to the printed regulations, by wliich it is to be conducted during the ensuing session, you wiU perceive that two surgeons and one physician visit the wards at mne o'clock every morning; that two lectures on cHnical14 CLINICAL SURGERY. sui'gery, and one on clinical medicine, wiU be delivered weekly. The medical officers are pledged by contract and in honor to carry out these regulations. But, our exertions without your zealous co-operation, will be as useless to you as hght is to a blind man, for, it would be foUy in those who are voluntarily bKnd to instruction, to expect to enjoy the light of knowledge. Gentlemen, in conclusion, allow me again to remind you of the awful responsibility you have incurred by embarking in the medical profession; remember you are to become the life-guards of the pubhc; that you wiU in all probability, be the medical attendants of your nearest relatives, and best friends; and above all, remember the inextinguishable pain of remorse and self-reproach, which must for ever torment you, should your conscience tell you that a valuable hfe has been sacrificed tlirough your own culpable ignorance !CHAPTER 11. LECTUEE n. Wounds of arteries and their effects—Structure and pro- perties of arteries—The nat^iral and scientific methods of restraining arterial hemorrhages—Five cases of suicidal wounds of the throat, in one of which the common carotid was successful tied—Practical observations on the cases. Gentlemen^ Tou have lately, had ample opportumties of observ- ing the symptoms, treatment, and termination of some very interesting cases of wounds; more especially those in- flicted by persons who have attempted to commit suicide. To the consideration of these cases I wish to direct your atten- tion to-day, prefacing their discussion with a few general remarks on the structure and properties of arteries, and also, some observations ontheestabhshed doctrines of arterial hemoiThage. On these subjects I wih not detain you long • feehng, as I do, that it is not the province of a clinical lecturer to enter at any length into controversial arguments on anatomical or physiological subjects. By careful dissection the parietes of an artery may be separated into three layers, which are perfectly distinct from each other, not only in their relative situations, but likewise m then- physical and vital properties; and, consequently in the morbid phenomena to wliich they axe liable These layers or coats being naturaUy placed one over the other are usuaUy designated by the words internal, middle, and external. The internal, or hning coat, is dehcate, smoothCLINICAL SURGERY. 16 and polislied.^ exliibiting many of tlie characters of serous membraneSj to wliicli it bears a close analogy, both as re- gards its natural appearance and tlie pathological changes to wliich it is hable. However, as it differs from them in some respects, wliich on the present occasion I do not feel it my duty to specify, it is usually referred to the " unclassi- fiable membranes" of Bichat. The middle coat is com- paratively strong, and obviously composed of yeUowish fibres, wliich run chiefly in a circular direction. These fibres have been considered by some physiologists to possess mixed properties, beiag partly muscular, and partly elastic; wlule others maintaia that they are not endowed with any of the attributes of muscularity. It would be foreign to our present purpose to canvass in. detail the conflicting opi- nions wliich have been advanced on this subject; let us, therefore, content ourselves with the recollection of the im- portant fact, that aU parties agree in assigning to those fibres a power of seK-contraction, with wliich they are certainly endowed. The external coat is usually called " cellularhowever, you are not to infer from this circum- stance, that it is natui'aUy loose in its texture; the very reverse being the fact. Indeed, it is only by protiacted maceration that it can be reduced to anything resembling " ceUnlar tissue." The general description which I have now given you of the structure of arteries, wiU not apply either to those of the bram, or the nutritious arteries of bones, which are divisible into two coats only. Taking an artery as a whole, we say it is well organized, inasmuch as it receives a tolerably good supply of those "systems" wliich are considered essentially necessary to per- fect organization; such as blood-vessels, nerves, exlialents,17 LECTUEE IT. absorbents and cellular membrane. Tliis being the case, it follows as a natural consequence, tliat arteries, in common ■with. aU parts endowed with vitality, are susceptible of dis- ease ; although capable in many instances, by their power of self-preservation, of resisting the baleful effects both of injury and morbid action. In addition to the three coats wliich I have just described, there are certain arteries of a high order, which possess a fourth, common to the accompanying veins and nerves; such for instance, is the case with the principal arteries of the neck and thigh. This common in- vestment, or sheath, is composed of dense cellular tissue, and connected to the pai'ts included within it, by an ex- ceedingly lax ceUular membrane. Having thus reminded you in a general way, of the struc- ture and properties of arteries, I now request your attention while I submit for consideration some important facts rela- tive to wounds of these vessels; as estabhshed by the expe- riments and observations of Petit, Jones, Beclaud, and others. Wlien a large artery has received a punctured wound, the following circumstances quickly succeed : on the withdrawal of the wounding instrument, the blood escapes from the vessel, and in all probabihty, some of it wiU make its way through the sheath into the neighbouring cellular membrane; or even a portion may follow the instrument out tlu-ough the wound in the integuments. Now, if the wound in the artery should be of trifling extent, the breach may be re- paired by some of the blood, at the moment it issues fi-om the aperture in the vessel, becoming entangled in the loose reticular membrane wliich connects it to the sheath; by this means, the correspondence wliich previously existed18 CLINICAL SURGERY. between the aperture in tlie artery and tliat in the sheath is completely clone away with; the blood coagulates, and pre- sents a sort of temporary compress or baiTier against further extravasation. In the course of a few hours uiflanunation becomes established in the lips of the wound, the arterice arteriarum pour out lymph, which quickly becomes organ- ized ; the adhesive process, finally, seals up the wound; and there being no further use for the clot of blood, the absorbents effect its removal. Such are the salutary changes accompHshed by natm-e, provided the wound of the artery do not engage more than one-fo2irth of its caHber. Let us now suppose a case iu wliich the vessel has been completely divided, and inquire what steps nature wQl take in that instance, with a view to accompHsh a cure independently of the interposition of art ? In a case of this descrij)tion, the cut extremities of the artery contract as to their diameter, and retract witliin the sheath at the moment the division takes place; the gush of blood, which must be considerable, is quickly followed by the fainting of the patient; a languid state of the circulation is, of course, the immediate conse- quence. Accordingly, a coagulum forms between the re- tracted extremities of the wounded artery; so that all that portion of the sheath which was left empty by their retrac- tion is now filled up by coagulated blood. Coagula also form witliin the extremities of the divided arter}^, extending from the mouth, or mouths to the next anastomosing branches. In a short time inflammation wiU set in, as iu the former case, and lymph will be shed by the small vessels of the wounded artery, wliich will constitute a sort of boundary, or line of demarcation between the internal and external coagula. The next stage consists in the organization of tliis19 LECTURE II. lymph, and the establisliment of the adliesive inflammation, by wliich the artery is rendered impervious for ever. Under these circumstances, the future circulation tln-ough the limb must necessarily be carried on by means of the collateral branches, wliich gradually become enlarged for the purpose. When an artery is divided to aU but one-fourth of its dia- meter, and then left to natui-e; according to the experiments and obsei-vations of the authors abeady alluded to, it is quite possible that the individual may survive the consequent hemorrhage without the aid of surgery. The steps taken by nature, in this case, do not materially differ from those ah-eady mentioned where the division had been complete, inasmuch as the remaining foiuth becomes quickly removed by absorption, and the future cu:culation will be carried on by means of auxiliary branches. Wlien a large artery is cut through one-half of its diameter, and then left entirely to natiire, the animal perishes; or should the vessel have been previously deprived of its sheath, as in some of the experiments of Beclaed, a smaller wound may be attended with a fatal hemorrhage. Having thus briefly, adverted to the means adopted by nature in suppressing hemorrhages consequent upon wounds of arteries, I now request your attention to a few observations on the different methods employed by ari; for the accompKshment of the same object. Tlae surgical means of restraining hemorrhage may be fairly included under six heads, viz :—styptics, caustics, the actual cautery, pressm-e, torsion, and the hgature. Any substance capable of arresting hemorrhage without injuring the structure of the bleeding vessel, or vessels, is in sui-gical language, denominated a ''styptic." M styptics do not20 CLINICAL SURGERY. act precisely in the same manner; for instance, some accom- plisli the desii'ed object by exciting the contraction and re- traction of the vessels; wliilst others prove efficacious by promoting the formation of a coagulum on the surface of the wound. To the first class I would refer cold air, water, spirits of turpentine, diluted acids, solutions of certain as- tringent salts; such as the super-sulphate of alum, acetate of lead; the sulphates of zinc, iron, andj copper. To the second belong certain dry absorbing substances, such as agaric, the pith of rushes, the fur of a hat, cobwebs, &c. &c. I consider that these act merely by absorbing the tliinner parts of the blood, with wliich they combine, and in this way assist the fibrine, or coagulating portion, in form- ing a common clot; by which further effusion is resisted. I need scarcely tell you, that styptics can only j)rove useful when the blood issues from small vessels. The caustics mostfrequently employed, as anti-hemorrhagic remedies, are the nitrate of silver, and sulphate of copper. The latter was much prized some centuries ago by the sur- geons of that time, who being unacquainted with the supe- liority of the hgature, employed it, even in cases of ampu- tation, under the name of "the blue button of vitriol." The instances in wliich caustics of any kind, are had re- course to, at the present day, are exceedingly rare; in fact it is only in those cases, where styptics and pressure have proved ineffectual, and where the ligature cannot be con- veniently apphed. I have myseK found the nitrate of silver very useful in suppressing hemorrhages from wounds of the tongue, and in cases of obstmate bleeding from leech- bites. I may here observe that the practitioner is often annoyed by perplexing hemorrhages of tliis descrijition,lECTURE II. 21 when leeclies have been apphed to cliildren. I recollect ha\dng heard on more than one occasion, a distinguished lecturer in this city, call the attention of his class in a very forcible manner to tliis " strange fact, which he would not pretend to explain." The fact in question, however, does not aj)pear to me to be so opposed to the well-known laws of the animal economy as to draw forth such a declaration from the learned professor. When we call to mind the high degree of vascularity the skin of the child naturally pos- sesses ; the rapidity of the circulation; the small quantity of fibrine wliich exists in the blood at this period of life; and the utility of a clot in stopping hemorrhages, the " strange fact" becomes deprived of the alleged obscurity, and is rendered intelligible to all medical men of moderate attainments and ordinary understanding. The caustic differs in its mode of action fi'om the styptic, inasmuch as it not only stimulates the vessels to contraction but likewise produces a slough or eschar, which acts as a plug to the open extremity of the wounded artery. However, should it unfortunately so happen that this temporary barrier becomes displaced before the adliesive uoflammation has permanently closed the wound, the bleeding must ine\dtably recur. Under these circumstances, you must at once per- ceive that caustic is a very uncertain means of suppressing hemorrhage. The actual cautery was formerly a favourite with surgeons as an anti-liemorrhagic remedy, but it is now employed only in those cases where styptics and caustics have proved in- effectual, and neither pressure nor ligature can be apphed with advantage; such, for instance, as after the removal of fungous growths from the antrum, vascular tumours from22 CLINICAL SURGERY. diseased bones^ &c. &c. The modus operandi of the actual cautery does not materially differ from that of the ordinary caustic; the superior degree of activity of the former seems to constitute the difference between them. Pressure may be apphed in two ways, with a view to sup- press hemorrhage from a wounded artery—viz., either on the trunk of the vessel, or immediately in, or at the wound itself. For example, let us suppose a person to liave re- ceived a wound of the popHteal, or tibial arteries, and that a smart hemorrhage is the consequence. In a case of this kind the surgeon should in the first instance, either make, or cause pressure to be made on the femoral artery, vmtil the necessary steps for securing the vessel at the wound can be taken. Thus, then, you are to recollect that when pres- sure is applied at a distance from the wound, the advantage gained by it is only of a temporary nature. Let us now suppose a case in which there is an extensive lacerated wound in the palm of the hand, by which the palmar arch and its branches have suffered severely, and the consequent bleeding is considerable. The best means of treating a case of tliis description would be, by a combination of styptics and pressure employed in the following manner:—a small portion of Hnt or sponge, should be dipped in a solution of alum, spirits of turpentine, or some other styptic of this class, and then inserted in the wound, so as to be apphed to the mouths of the bleediug vessels; a second compress should then be placed over the first, and so on, until by a succes- sion of them, a cone is formed, the apex being in the bottom of the wound, wlulst its base should project above the level of the skin. The compresses having been thus adjusted, should be kept firmly in their places by a roller appliedLECTURE ri. 23 round the hand. The di-essings may, with advantage, be wetted from tune to time with cold water j but they ought not to be removed for three or four days, provided the patient do not suffer from pain and tension in tlie parts en- gaged in the injury. By tliis time the adhesive inflaanma- tion wiU have closed up the mouths of the wounded vessels, and suppuration AviH be estabhshed, so that the compresses may now be removed with ease and safety. Wlien arteries of a moderate size have been chvided by a sharp-cutting mstrument, the bleeding may be restrained in many instan- ces, by shnply bringing the hps of the wound in contact with each othei;, and retaimng them in this position by su- ture and bandage. This is the practice usuaUy adopted after operations perfomed on the lips, either for the pur- pose of removing morbid stiucture, or curing congenital malfonnations. The suppression of hemorrhage hj torsion of the bleeding arteries was warmly taken up by the Continental surgeons some years smce, but I beheve it is seldom had recourse to at the present day, even by them, except in cases where the wounded vessels are smaU. Torsion, as far as I am inform- ed, was never thought much of as a means of arresting hemorrhage by the British or Irish surgeons. By those who have confidence in its occasional efiicacy, two methods of employkg it have been recommended. The first con- sists of merely taking hold of the extiemity of the bleeding vessel with a pair of forceps, and then forcibly twistinc. it round four or five times, so as to destroy its physical proper- ties, and thereby rendering it incapable of restoring itself to Its previous patulous conchtion, until such time as tlie ndhesive inflammation might accomplish its permanent ob-CLINICAL SURGERY. 24 literation. In tlie second method^ two pair of forceps are necessary; viz.^ one to take hold of and draw out the artery from the surrounding parts; this being done by an assis- tant^ the surgeon^ with a forceps specially recommended for the pui'pose, seizes at right angles the extended arterj'^ wliich he compresses strongly between the" convex blades of the instrument^ until he tliinks he has^ on the principle of the hgature^ which I will explain presently^ divided the internal coats; he then pushes the instrument, the blades being still firmly pressed towards each other, along the artery towards the heart, in expectation of forming a plug by the puckered internal coats of the vessel, which would resist the further circulation of blood through it. ' The completion of the cure is now left to the inflammatory' action which must result from such lesion of structure. I will not fm-ther occupy your time ui discussing a plan of procedure wliich, however ingeniously conceived, appears to me both" frivolous and uncertain, but at once proceed to make a few observations on the ligature. Of all the methods supphed by art for restraining arterial hemorrhage, the hgature justly claims the first place. I wish, therefore, to call your attention to some of the effects produced by its apphcation. At the moment a hgature is firmly tied round an artery, the cavity of the vessel is not only rendered impervious, but its mtemal and middle coats are cut completely tlu'ough; the blood must, necessarily, be determined to the collateral branches, which become enlarged for its accommodation. All that portion of the artery wliich extends from the hgature to the next collateral branch, becomes filled with a coagulimi; but should it so happen that the hgatui-e was apphed close to the origin of an25 SUICIDAL WOUNDS OF THE THROAT. anastamosing branchy there will be no coagulum formed; for this obvious reason, that there was no resting place left in which the blood could coagulate. The phenomena which I have just mentioned are of immediate, and almost simul- taneous occurrence; but in the course of a few hours other important changes ensue: inflammation takes place in the divided coats of the artery; this, necessarily, gives rise to an effusion of lymph, wliich quickly becomes organized, so that the vessel is now obhterated by the process of adhesion. The hgature, by its pressure on the external coat, excites ulcerative absorption in this tunic, which continues until the artery becomes completely divided, and the hg^itui'e itself detached. In the course of time, the coagulum will be absorbed, and the artery degenerate into a sort of hga- mentous substance up to the next collateral branch. Having made these preliminary observations, I think we may now advantageously proceed with the special con- sideration of a few cases. They will be read for you, as noted down by our intelligent chnical clerk,, in the case- book. SUICIDAL WOUNDS OF THE THIIOAT. CASE. Jammry 19<(/i.-—Samuel Johnson, aged 28 years, and of respectable appearance, was brought to the hospital at five o'clock tliis evening, with a wound about an inch and half in length and extremely deep; extending from tiie angle of the jaw towards the chin. The submaxillary gland was cCLINICAL SURGERY. 26 completely divided, and there was profuse hemoiThage both from the upper and lower parts of the wouud; supposed to come from the cut extremities of the fascial artery; the bleeding could be restrained tolerably well by pressure, made in the wound, when directed towards the ramus of the jaw: he was extremely cold, nearly pulseless, and ex- hausted. He was accompanied to the hospital by a very inteUigent surgeon, Mr. Barkeu, who stated " that he had been suddenly called on, and requested to visit the patient, whom he found in the house of a respectable family at Summer-hill, ui an almost lifeless state, that he was informed that the unfortunate man had been in a state of despondency for some time past, and that he had himself inflicted the wound, with a razor five minutes before his nsit." Soon after the patient's arrival at the hospital, the wound was enlarged and the bleeding vessels sought for, with a view to secure them with hgatures; however, the great depth of the wound, the constant supply of blood poured into it, and the retracted state of the arteries, ren- dered the attempt fruitless. The wound was then plugged up with hut dipped in spirits of turpentine; graduated compresses were next appKed, and kept firmly on with a roller. Immediately after the wound was dressed, an elfort was made to take off the patient's clothes, but on assuming tlie erect posture, in order that liis coat might be removed, he instantly fainted, and was consequently, obhged to re- sume the recumbent posture. About tliree hours after- wards, having in some degree recovered his strength, he quietly got out of bed, stole down stairs, and made liis escape. He was immediately pursued, and overtaken A\-ithin a few doors of the hospital, leaning against the railing ofSUICIDAL WOUNDS OF THE THROAT. 27 an area; having become mucli exhausted in consequence of the pre^dous loss of blood. He was brought back to the hospital and put to bed; an anodyne given liim which he tasted, and then flung contemptuously out of his hand. 20U.—}le spent a restless night, talked much of going home, is u-ritable and seems unwilling to answer questions. Pulse quick and weak; the temperatui-e of the skin natural. 22«.f^.—He has been peevish and unpatient since last report; is constantly fiddhng with, and pullmg at the ban- dage and dressmgs. This morning he secretly apphed the bread and milk he got for his breakfast to the wound, which looks indolent and quite free fi'om suppm-ation: he obstinately refuses to take mechcine. 25^5/5.—Notliing particular occurred from the 22nd., up to six o^clock this morning, when he became alarmed by a fresh gush of blood; he unmediately leaped out of bed, and ran out of the ward for assistance, crying out that he was "bleeding to death.^^ The hemorrhage was restrained, as m the first mstance, by compresses and bandage.; he is now more tranquil and manageable than he has been since his admission into the hospital. 26^.—At eight o^clock yesterday evening having felt the dressings wet with blood, he caUed for assistance as m the mormng, and on removing the bandage to expose the wound, a fnghtful gush took place, which in an instant reduced hhn ahnost to a state of syncope. Compression was instantly made, and Mr. Elhs and Mr. O'Reilly were summoned. On their arrival Mr. EUis enlarged the wound but the continued hemorrhage, which was veiy profuse' rendered it hnpracticable to particularize, or secui-e any vessel Alter a short time, the patient having been exhausted, theCLINICAL SURGERY. 28 bleeding ceased; but still tlie open vessel could not be found. Under these embarrassing circumstances, it was deemed expedient to tie the common carotid artery. Accor- dingly an incision, about tliree inches in length, was ex- 'tended from the wound down along the inner margin of the stemo-mastoid muscle. By means of a knife and di- rector the various layers of parts were successively removed from the skin down to a lymphatic gland, wliich lay in front of the artery, and wliich, in consequence of the oblong shape, whitish colour, and the borrowed pulsation it pre- sented, was, for a moment, mistaken for the vessel itself; however, on raismg the gland a Httle out of its place, the descendens noni, and the sheath of the carotid came into view. The sheath was now cautiously opened, with a blunt silver knife (a fruit knife,) and an aneurism needle armed with a hgature passed round the artery from without inwards. The hgatm-e was now tied, and one end having been cut off close to the knot, the other was drawn out tlirough the wound, the hps of which were brought together by adhesive plaster; the original wound was fiUed ^vith lint as before. The patient was then ordered a composing draught, wliich had the effect of procm-uig some refresliing sleep tlirough the night. He feels comparatively well to- day. Pulse 96, soft and compressible. 27;;/^ _He passed rather a restless night; got out of bed and sat some time at the fire; pulse more frequent than yesterday; the pulsation has returned to the temporal artery of the affected side, but is extremely feeble; the bowels not having been moved he was ordered a pm-ging draught. 28/?//,.—He was very troublesome duruig the night, got no sleep, and attempted to remove the dressings from liis29. SUICIDAL •WOUNDS OF THE THROAT. neck; at present he is extremely irritable and obstinately refuses to take medicines of any kind. —He was exceedingly restless tkrougli the night and got out of bed three or four times. In the course of this day he got the blankets over his head^ and then com- menced picking, and puUing at the dressiags, until he removed them, and exposed the hgature. The dressings were reappHed, and on expostulation he promised to be quiet; indeed, he always promises fairly and seems quite rational when spoken to. February Isi.—He has been tolerably well since last report up to eleven o^clock yesterday, when he suddenly became cold, weak and sick; his stomach turned and ejected its contents ; the pulse fell to 60, and was scarcely percep- tible. He was given some wai-m wine, which was immedi- ately rejected by vomiting; he then recovered a Httle, but suffered a good deal from time to time during the day from sickness of stomach and hiccough. At ten o'clock he complained of numbness in the affected side which extended from the head and face down the arm. He was ordered a mixture of carbonate of ammonia, with tincture of opium, to be taken with lemon juice during the effervescence, but he refused taking it. At present liis stomach is irritable, but less so than it has been during the night; he continues to refuse medicine, but consents to take a Httle chicken broth. Srd.—He took some broth wliich appeared to agree witli him tolerably well, but he has been much teased with a very distressing liiccough. The hgature came away M^itli the dressings to-day ; the wound is nearly healed, but looks pale and glossy. He is ordered a carminative mixture, con-30 CLINICAL SURGERY. sistmg of peppermint water, calcined magnesia, tincture of opium and spup. Uh.—He took the mixture regularly without advantage, the liiccough having continued with httle intermission during the night, and is at present very distressing. Ordered a foetid enema, and a sinapism to the epigastrium. 5a.—The liiccough as before; bowels confined. To have a draught of castor oil and spirits of turpentine, the fetid injections to be repeated every tliii-d hour until the bowels shall be affected. Wt.—Tlie hiccough has continued with little intennission since the last report, although the bowels have been freely acted upon. Twelve leeches were directed to be apphed to the epigastrium, and a draught containing thirty drops of the acetum opii to be taken at bed-time. Wt.—The hiccough ceased immediately after he took the opiate draught, and he slept quietly during the night; however, the liiccough rettirned at ten o'clock tliis morning, and is at present as violent as before. He was ordered a bhster to the epigastrium, cathartic pills during the day, and the opiate at bed-time. IQtL—He slept for three hours last night without inter- mission ; but the liiccough annoys liiin to-day; in every other respect he appears to be quite Avell. 14^.—He took an opiate draught every night since last report; the hiccough has left liim altogether; and he is in every respect quite well, but unwilling to return to his fiiends. Such, gentlemen, is the history of Jolmson's case, and indeed, -the report is so ample, and explanatory, that Uttle remains for me to say in the way of commentary.31 SUICIDAL WOUNDS OF THE THROAT. It wotild have been very desirable, were it practicable, to have tied the wounded artery ia the first instance j but having failed in my efforts to accomphsh that object, I had recoui-se to an irritating styptic and compression. I select- ed the turpentine, hoping that, by its stimulating properties, it would excite a sufficient degree of ioflammation to seal up the wound in the bleeding vessel by the process of adhesion; but in this calculation I was unfortunately dis- appointed. It is somewhat remarkable that the bleeding did not occur when the patient himself removed the com- press and bandage on the third day after the infliction of the wound; and that it should take place at so remote a- period as the sixth, when no exciting cause whatever existed. You may now natm'ally inquire why was not the external rather than the common carotid tied in the present instance? In reply I beg to state, that in my opinion, it was both an easier and safer operation to tie the cormnon than the external carotid. Tor instance, if the latter were tied, the hgature should be apphed heloio the origin of the fascial or labial artery, otherwise this would bring the operator down to the lower thh'd of the external carotid, where it is crossed by the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, and the ninth pair of nerves. Well, then, let us for a moment suppose, that these parts have been properly disposed of, the thyroid and lingual arteries, which arise from tliis part of the vessel, come into view, so that the ligature must be appHed either close to the origin of the external carotid itself, or close (o these vessels. Under these circumstances, you must per- ceive, that a coagulum could not be fonned; the adhesive process would, necessarily, be interrupted by the circulation32 CIINICAL SURGERY. of the fluid blood in tlie neiglibouring parts; so that the coming away of the hgatnre would, in all probabihiy, be attended with a secondaiy fatal hemon'hage. Thus, then, you may perceive that the operation of tying the external carotid would be both difficult and unsafe; and consequently, Hable to objections, wliich cannot be fairly advanced against the propriety of tying the common carotid, under the peculiar circumstances of the case before us. It is comparatively easy to expose the common carotid in the upper third of its course; and I am induced to thinlc, that the difficulty of passing a hgature around it, without including, or otherwise injuring the internal jugular vein or par-vagum, has been greatly exaggerated. I must say, that neither of these im- portant parts presented to me the shghtest obstacle in passing the aneurism needle, nor can I confidently assert that I saw them, at all, during the operation. However, be it remembered, that it became my duty to operate under rather embarrassing circumstances, and by candle-hght. The danger of secondary hemon-hage fi-om the common carotid, on the separation of the hgatm-e, is not, in my opinion, very great, provided the artery were in a healthy state previous to the operation. The fact of its not gi\Tng off any important branches from its origin to its termina- tion, is a circumstance conducive to the formation of a long coagulum; consequently, the adliesive process wliich is going on in the neighboui'hood of the hgature, is not very liable to interruption from the " vis-a-tergo^^ of the heart's action, or the circulation of the fluid blood. The next feature in the case which I deem worthy of ob- servation, is, the very distressing hiccough wliich occurred on the 3rd of Tebruary. Here, I may observe that the33 SUICIDAL WOUNDS OF THE THROAT. causes and pathology of liiccougli are but imperfectly un- derstood ; however, it is usually considered as indicating a morbid action of the diapln-agm, sympathetically induced by u-ritation in the stomach. Taking tliis view of the theory of liiccough, it might be fairly supposed that in the present instance, it was the result of some injury done to the par-vagum, or phrenic nerves, at the time of the opera- tion. But when it is borne in mind, that this symptom occurred for the first time on the very day the ligature came away, which was the ninth after the operation; the idea of accounting for it by a reference to any such cause, must be abandoned. On the other hand, we ought not to forget the fact, that the medicines which are usually administered, with advantage, m cases of gastiic irritation, from acidity, and other causes, were employed for a considerable time without the shghtest advantage ; and, that it was not until after the acetum opii was administered in large doses, that any beneficial efiect was produced. CASE. Thomas Nelligan, aged 35 years, a clerk of robust appear- ance, was admitted into hospital July 13th, at seven o'clock, p.m. having a short time previously attempted to commit sui- cide by cutting liis tlnoatwith a razor; the reasons assigned for this rash act, by liis friends, were, that he was embarrassed as to his pecuniary afi'airs, and tired of Hfe. It appeared fi-om the statement of his wife, and others, that he had been leading a very dissipated hfe during the last four years; and tiiat he was much disappointed on the day of his admission into hospital at not receiving some money winch was due to him. He stated, himself, that nearly twenty minutes elapsed ivi'ter c 234 CLINICAL SURGEKY. the infliction of the injury before he M^as discovered; dm-ijig which time he lost a large quantity of blood. On examina- tion^ there was a ti-ansverse wound found on the front of the neck, a httle beneath the os-hyoides, about tlu-ee inches in length : it did not penetrate the thyro-liyoid hgament nor was there much bleeding at the tune he was brought to hospital. He appeared both irritable and dejected; it was with the utmost reluctance he allowed the wound to be dressed. However, after a strong remonstrance he yielded ; the edges of the wound were then brought together by in- clining the cliin towards the sternum; and tb-ee points of inten-upted suture were inserted; these were supported by the apphcation of adhesive plaster and compresses of hnt. He was ordered an anodyne draught and left in charge of a mght nurse. J4!tL—Passed a restless night, liis mind is agitated, and he appears greatly afi-aid of dying; complains very much of head-ache and thirst; tongue brown and drv; pulse quick and rather full; bowels confined. He was ordered pm-ging mixture, and plenty of whey ; but tlie wound was not distiu-bed. 15^;^.—Slept badly during the night; the effect of tlie medicine trifling; head-ache, tongue, pulse, and tliirst full\- as bad as on yesterday; he complains of a good de;xl ol' pain in the wound. Fenmection ad |xii. Ilabeat Bolum cathartiam etpostea kanstun purgantem si necessifas fuerit. \lth.—Much better to-day, rested well last night; pidsc natural; bowels free, and tongue nearly clean. Tlie sutures were removed to-day, and the wound, wliich looks rather indolent, was ordered to be poulticed. 26^/^.—He continued to improve since the last report; theSUICIDAL WOUNDS OF THE THROAT. 35 wound having been dressed during tlie last tliree days witli the unguentum calaminse, and on this day he will leave tlie hospital. CASE. In the year 1843, I was suddenly called some miles out of town to see a young gentleman, who in a moment of temporary insanity had attempted to commit suicide. On my amvalj which was about six or seven hours after the infliction of the injury, I found the unfortunate patient in bed in a state of great exhaustion; the countenance deadly pale ; the extremities cold, and the pulse scarcely perceptible at the wrist. A large gapiag, transverse wound presented itself ia the anterior part of the neck; being situated between the os-hyoids and thyroid cartilage. The thyro-hyoid hgaments had been completely divided, and the epiglottis detached from the thyroid cartilage, retaining, however, its connections with the os-hyoides and the tongue; the mucous membrane was Kkewise extensively cut through; so that tliree fingers could, without difficulty, be introduced into the pharynx. There was no hemon-hage when I saw him, but I learned from the gentleman in attendance that lie had lost a considerable quantity of blood previous to my arrival. Many branches, if not the trunks, of the lingual and supe- rior thyroid arteries must have been wounded ; however, I am unable to specify the amount of miscliief done to these vessels, all bleediag having ceased before I saw him, which was rather late at night. The carotid arteries escaped, and could be felt feebly pulsating in close proxunity to tlic wound. I closed the hps of the wound by inchniiig the head forward, and inserting a few points of the interrupted36 CLINICAL SUKGERY, suture, which were assisted by compresses of Hut retained by adhesive plaster. I recommended a continuance of the mild stimulating plan of treatment, which was put in force before my visit, and in addition, when reaction should be es- tabHshed, that he should have an anodyne draught; I gave it as my opinion that the case was perfectly hopeless, and left for the night. Previous to my departure I learned that the unfortunate gentleman occasionally suffered from \aoleiit head-aches, and that he had been complaining a good deal for three or four days before tliis melancholy occurrence. I saw the patient again on the next day; he had raUied con- siderably, and appeared to be perfectly conscious of liis awful situation; he looked dejected, and his mind appeared to fluctuate between hope and despau*. On being iufonned that there was no chance whatever of his recovery, and re- quested to disclose unreservedly, the whole of the circum- stances which prompted liim to commit so dreadful an act; he seemed much distressed in mind, and expressed a wish partly by signs and partly in writing (he could not speak) to be admitted to the consolation of religious exercises, for the short time he had to Hve. This request was gladly com- plied with by his friends: he subsequently conveyed to them the following particidai- of his case :—'^Whilst in tlie act of shaving liimself, near the window of his bed-room, where he had been for the last two or tlu-ee days in conse- quence of the head-ache, having been unusually Adolent, and attended with much confusion of intellect, he was suddenly seized with an irresistible desire to commit suicide, which he attempted, first by cutting liis tluroat with a razor, but thinking he had failed to accomplish his object, he imme-- diately threw himself out through the window, and tlintSUICIDAL WOUNDS OF THE THROAT. 37 he could recollect nothing more of what occnrrecl/' He appeared to supplicate, most fervently, forgiveness for what he seemed to acutely feel was an unpardonable offence. As far as I could learn, some hours must have elapsed previous to liis being discovered lying in a state of insensibility, on a gravel walk beneath his bed-room window, which was at least fifty feet from the ground. Strange to say, none of his bones had been fractured. Judging from the blood on the window-stools beneath his apartment, there is every reason to suppose that the violence of the fall must have been greatly modified before he came to the ground. At my second visit I merely desired that the patient should be kept quiet, and as he could swallow a Httle, that he should get a gentle aperient. These instructions were, I beheve, faithfully obeyed; I was obhged to return to town, and sub- sequently learned by letter, that the patient expired on the third day whilst " sitting on the night chair.''' Wliether the immediate cause of death was the result of exhaustion, or suffocation from the spasmodic contraction of the mus- cles of the rima glottodis, I could not learn. CASE. Early in the month of March, 1843, I called one day to Mercer's Hospital, and found my distinguished fiiend Dr. Jameson, engaged in dressing the most awful case of suicidal wound I ever saw or read of. At a subsequent date, the 27th of the same month, the Doctor in a paper of great mterest brought the case before the Surgical Society. Dr. Jameson's paper excited that attention to wliich it was legitunately entitled, and was accordingly published in the Medical Press of the 15tli of May, 1845 ; from which ICLINICAL SURGERY. 38 will take tlie liberty of making a few extracts:—" The facts of the case were these—one of our pupils, on his way home, at about two o'clock on Thursday, the 5th of March, was attracted by a crowd in the neighbourhood of Clau- brassil-street, and a report that a woman in a lane off that street had cut her throat. Being curious to know the truth of this report, he immediately repaired to the spot, and observed a woman, between the age of fifty and sixty, sitting on the ground, with her back against a wall, her tltroat cut to a most frightful extent, deluged in blood, most of wliich was coagulated, and a razor and a small fleshy mass lying beside her. He instantly put a stitch in the lower part of the wound, and being assisted by the pohce, had her con- veyed to Mercer's Hospital. I was promptly on the spot, and found her sitting on the table in the sm-gery, making several gestures to the police, and pointing to some articles which they had extracted from her pockets, as if signifvang her wish that they should be cared; and while she was being conveyed to bed, an opportunity was afforded me of examining the fleshy mass, which the pupil handed me, and wliich proved to be the whole of the cricoid cartilage, part of the left wing of the thyroid, the right arytenoid cartilage, a portion of the first rings of the trachea, and, posteriorly, a part of the mucous membrane of the phanirx, together with some portions of the small muscles of the larnix. On being placed in bed she was cold, pale, lips hvid; but she was perfectly tranquil and rational; breatliing freely through the chasm; pulse scarcely perceptible at the wrist. In order the better to see the extent of the wound, I cut the suture already alluded to, wliich merely closed a small portion of its lower part, and never before witnessed so39 SUICIDAL WOUNDS OF THE THROAT. frightful a gash, beiug fully tlu-ee inches in every diameter, and apparently sufficiently large to admit the shut fist. At the upper portion you could perceive the inferior part of the pharjTix drawn up to a level with the chin, quite pendulous, having anterior to it the cut portions the thyroid cartilages wliich were wliite and shining. In the centre the outhne of some of the bodies of the cervical vertebree could be distinguished. At the lower portion the trachea was drawn to a level with the top bone of the sternum, wliich was moved up and down at each respiration, and constantly emittuig a large quantity of bloody frothy mucus thi-ougli a cii-cular opening, about three quarters of an inch in diameter during expiration, producing efforts at cougliing. The sides of the wound were bounded by the anterior edges of the stemo-cleido-mastoid muscles, underneath which the carotids could be felt beating in theii- relative situations. All hemor- rhage had ceased, and, therefore, no vessel had to be secured. With difficulty, and at a considerable depth, at the lower portion of the wound (assisted by Mr. Elhs) I succeeded in laying hold of the cesophagus, with a forceps, in order to pass a gum-elastic tube from the mouth into the stomach, but as its presence there seemed to cause uneasiness and distress, shortly afterwards it was removed."' Dr. Jameson in a subsequent part of his report informs us that the unfortunate woman died of exliaustion in about tlurty-four hours after the infliction of the wound; and con- cludes with an interesting account of the appearances pre- sented at the post mortem examination; however, my present object bemg to practically dlustrate principles by reference to cases, I hope I shaU be pardoned for not quoting the very judicious observations made by the learned gentlemaii on the case, m a medico-legal point of view.CLINICAL SURGERY. 40 CASE. About twenty-four years ago, a British statesman, of much notoriety, wliile suffering from feehngs either of dis- appointment, wounded pride, mental infirmity, or perhaps a combination of all acting simultaneously, resolved to put an end to liis hfe, by cutting his tlu'oat. The instrument he selected for tliis purpose was a pen-knife, Avliich, the pubhc press of the day, stated he- employed in the following manner. He stood before a looldng-glass, and with the small blade of the knife inflicted a deep narrow wound in the side of liis neck, by which the common carotid artery was divided. In a few seconds he fell on the floor; liis servant alarmed by the gi'eat and sudden noise, wliich issued from his master's room, ran at once to the spot, and on finding liim lying on the floor, weltering in liis blood, imme- diately called out for the " Doctor," who was in the house at the time, and instantly hastened to the fatal spot. He was just in time to witness the homble scene, and to hear liis noble fiiend faintly exclaim, "B—k—h—d, it is aU over!" The bewildered Doctor stood amazed, and motionless, and in a few seconds the work of self-destruction had done its worst, and Lord C—^le—r—^li was no more. REFLECTIONS AND OBSEUVATIONS ON THE FOREGOING CASES. By a httle reflection on the above cases wliicli I liave selected from amongst a great number, the inexperienced surgeon, may in my opinion, form some idea of the variety of suicidal wounds of the tliroat wliich he should be pre- pared to encounter. In the case of Johnson, although the trunks of ilio41 SUICIDAL WOUNDS (IF THE THROAT. cai-otid arteries escaped uninjured; yet, it is obvious that he must have perished from hemorrhage, had not one of these important vessels been tied. In the case of NeUigan the wound neither opened an important blood-vessel, nor estab- Hshed an unnatural communication with the an* passages. These facts might induce a young practitioner to suppose, that the case was devoid of interest, and unworthy of pub- hcation. In reply to this supposition, I beg to state that the amount of structural lesion does not always fairly indi-- cate the consequences which may result from a wound in- flicted by a person of suicidal intentions. As an instance of the truth of this statement, I may briefly mention the following case:— Some years since a young lad of humble position in society, had been promised by a girl of his own age, that she would marry him, as soon as he should have saved a small sum of money, (one pound,) which he accomphshed after some months, of strict economy. WeU, the wished- for period had arrived, but the false fan' one had changed her mind! Tliis was too much for an unfortunate youth, of impetuous feehngs, to bear up against, and he, accord- ingly, sought consolation, or satisfaction," as he called it, by cutting his throat. The wound was trifling in itself; but sufficient to cause his admission into the Jervis-street hospital. The pupils of the hospital having learned the history of the case, and not apprehending any danger, annoyed the poor fellow to an unmerciful extent, by jokes and ribaldry too severe for liis acute feehngs; the conse- quence was that he died in a state of mental agony in a few days after his admission. My friend Dr. M'Coy has pubhshed this case in the Medical42 CLINICAL SURGKKY. Press for March 1843. In the third case, new symptoms and considerations of intense interest are introduced to our notice. The wound was situated between the os-hyoides and upper mai-gin of the thyroid cartilage; the thyroid hgaments, tlie root of the epiglottis, and the mucous membrane M'ere aU com- pletely divided; tliis being the case a large opening of com- munication was established between the external air, and the cavity of the pharynx. Let us reflect, for a moment, upon the effects which such a wound must have immediately pro- duced in the relations and functions of the parts concerned without reference to the important blood-vessels in the neighbourhood, Mdiich for the present, we will suppose escaped uninjured. The human tongue is not only the organ of speech; but it likewise perfoi-ms a most important part in the first stage of deglutition: such being the fact, then, it becomes obAaous that in the case under consideration, that the patient could neitlier speak nor swaUow perfectly; inasmuch, as it had been severed from its principal frsed attaclnnent, by the division of the sterno-hyoid muscles, the thyro-hyoid liga- ments, the epiglottis, and the mucous membrane of the ]3harynx. The instant that these important parts were divided, the following changes must have taken place. Tlie os-hyoides was no longer a fixed point towards which the muscles of the tongue could act: on the contrary, the genio- hyoid, and the genio-hyoglossi muscles di-ew it, the tongue, and epiglottis upwards and forwards towards the cliin; whilst, at the same time, the sterno-tlnToid muscles were engaged in pidlkig the parts beneath the wound down towards the sternum. The countenance of a person suffering from such a wound.43 SUICIDAL WOUNDS OF THE THROAT. is usually pale, vacant and statue-Kke; with tlie mouth closed^ wlulst the Hps and alse nasi remain motionless; respiration being can-ied on tln^ough the wound. If Hquid of any kind, suppose water, be pom"ed into the patient^'s mouth, it will mechanically trickle down to the wound, tlirough which, in all probability, a gi-eat portion of it will escape; a part of it may also get into the oesophagus and stomach; wlulst some of it will present itseK for admission into the larynx; but the epiglottis having been removed, tliis may give rise to u-ritation, coughing, symptoms of suffocation, and even death itself! Let us now inquire the various ways in wliich death may be produced by such a wotmd as the one I have just de- scribed ? In reply to this question, I at once say by hemor- rhage, suffocation, inanition and laryngitis. Hemorrhage, may cause death in either of two ways, viz :—^by suffocation, or exhaustion. The former may be effected thus: a portion of blood immediately after the infliction of the wound pre- sents itself, for admission, to the opening of the glottis, which is now imcovered, the epiglottis having been removed in the manner before stated; this may be prevented by the spasmodic action of the arytenoid muscles wliich naturally close the rima; resphation is thus suddenly interrupted, and should the spasm continue many seconds, hfe must become extinct. Now, let us suppose that the spasmodic action of the muscles, which closed the rima, lasted but an instant, and that it quickly became dilated by the action of the antagonist muscles, what would be the probable conse- quence ? Why, that the blood which had presented itself for admission, and had not as yet time to coagulate, would not only be admitted into the larynx and trachea, on me-44 CLINICAL SURGERY, clianical principles, but actually forced into tliem, by a current of air at the next inspiration; and in tliis way prevent the proximity of relation which natui-ally exists between the inspired aii- and the blood circulating in the lungs, and consequently the reciprocal changes wliich are essentially necessary for the sustentation of animal life ! Hemorrhage may likewise cause death by the actual loss which the cir- culating system has sustained, although the extrava- sated blood did not take an inward direction. Although the patient may have passed tlirough the immediate dangers resulting from such a wound as I have described, yet, he may ultimately sink from laryngitis and imperfect nutiition, aided by that morbid state of mind which induced him to seek repose in death. I do not think it necessary to indulge in lengthened remarks on Dr. Jameson^s case, inasmuch as the descrip- tion of the wound, and other particulars given by himself, are so ample, and so pointed, that httle remains to be said. I, therefore, merely wish to observe, that in this instance the wound was situated lower down than in any of the other cases; that the trachea and oesophagus were completely divided, and that the danger of suffocation was less than in any of the preceding, for the following ob^dous reasons:—The natural relations between the os-hyoides, tongue, epiglottis and rima glottodis, were not altered in the shghtest degree by the wound, consequently, suffocation fi-om the spasmodic clos- ure of the rima could not occm-; uiasmuch as respiration was carried on through the wound below the larynx, although it might be produced by hemoiThage mto the trachea: however, we have it on the unquestionable authority of the Doctor liimself, that death was the effect of " exhaustion,"SUICIDAL WOUNDS OF THE THROAT. 45 which it is rational to suppose was in part iadnced by the impression such a wound made on the nervous system generally^ but priacipally by the loss of bloody which must have been considerable, although the trunks of the carotids themselves happened to escape. Here I may observe, that as a general rule, when the wound is inflicted in the centre of the neck, these great vessels are not Kkely to suffer, in consequence of the retired position they occupy, and the great depth of parts which must be cut through, before the wounding instrument can reach them. In the case of Lord C , the unfortunate suicide showed, plainly, that he was acquainted with the anatomy of the parts he wounded. Here, there was no complication, no communication whatever established with the air passa- ges. No; it was an awful but simple wound of a great vessel, and the patient died of hemorrhage in a few seconds after its infliction. The question naturally arises, could nothing have been done to stem the dreadful torrent before the vital spark had fled ? Tliis is a question which I feel some dehcacy in replying to, lest I might attribute unmerited blame to the medical gentleman who had been in atten- dance ; and, whose conduct on the occasion may have been misrepresented. If on the contrary, he so far lost his pre- sence of mind as to stand " motionless," in a case where the fate of the patient could only have been averted by promptness of action, it must be admitted that neither surgery, nor the patient had fair play. In a case of tiiis kind, the flrst duty of the surgeon is, at once to make pressure with his thumbs directly backwards towards the transverse processes of the vertebrse; so that the woundedCLINICAL SURGERY. 46 vessel may be^ for the moment, obliterated, and further hemorrhage prevented. This pressure should be perseve- ringly kept up, until such time as further assistance can be procured, and the necessary steps for tying the wounded vessel taken; both extremities of which should be secured, I feel that I cannot more appropriately conclude tliis chapter, than by quoting the follomng passage from Bell's Anatomy. " All these accidents must come upon the sm-geou very suddenly; and if they come upon him unprepared all is in a moment lost. I once saw a fine young feUow die from tliis alarm of the attendants, and confusion of the surgeon, he was a taU stout young man, who was sitting at a table with his companions eating bread and cheese, taking his glass and telling his tale. He had in his hand a sharp- pointed table knife, which he happened to hold daggerwise in his hand, and in the height of some assertion or oath he meant to strike the table, but the point missed and slanted over the table, he had stabbed himself in the femoral arterj-, and with one gush of blood he fell to the ground. When I came I fomd the young man stretched out upon the floor, he was just uttering his last groan; the floor was deluged, all shppery, and swimming with blood. The wound was covered with a confused bundle of cloths, which I instantly whirled off; and in that moment two gentlemen who had been flrst called, and who had both run oft' for tourniquets returned, and had the unhappiuess to see that the whole was no bigger than what I could close, and had actually shut up the wound with my thumb; and which, had it been shut and put together ^^^th a good compress, would have healed in three days, forming a large beatingSUICIDAL WOUNDS OF THE THROAT. 47 aneurism Avitliin; aHowing time for a deHberate operation. Or it would have been better stiU, if by compressing the artery above, and enlarging the wound, a Hgature had been put upon both ends of the divided vessel.^^ The latter is the only practice Avliich could be sanctioned by a good surgeon.CHAPTER III. LECTURE III. Traumatic aneurisms and their varieties.—The surgical anatomy of the lend of the arm.—The diffused and cir- cumscribed false aneurisms.—Varicose aneurism, and aneu- rismal varix.—Temporal aneurisms.—The symptoms, pa- thology, and treatment of all, illustrated hj cases. Gentlemen^ I wish to direct your attention this morning to the subject of tranmatic aneurisms, the varieties of them which you may expect to meet in practice, and should, when called on, be prepared to treat, on scientific pmciples. Tliere is not, perhaps, a single artery of hnportance in the human body wliich may not be the seat of traumatic aneurism, masmuch as they are all hable to be wounded; however, m civil hfe it is most frequently met with in connexion with the brachial and temporal arteries, and is m almost every instance, produced by the operation of blood-lettmg. As 1 recognise amongst you, many juniors, whom I am to con- sider not well acquainted with the anatomical relations of these vessels, and as it is my wish, as weU as my duty, to make myself inteUigible to all my hearers-, I hope the seiuor portion of the class will bear with me, wliilst I make a few observations on the relative anatomy of the parts situated at the bend of the arm and its vicinity. On removing the integuments from the anterior surface of the arm and fore-arm, the following blood-vessels and nerves will be brought into view -.-The cephahc, basihc andLECTURE III. 49 median veins; the external and internal cutaneous nerves. The cephahc takes its origin from a number of small veins which run together to form it, at the radial side of the wrist- jomt, from whence it proceeds upwards, corresponding to the radius inferiorly, and to the outer or radial side of the humerus superiorly; being situated beneath the skin and superfcial to the fascia of both fore-arm and arm, until it arnves above the insertion of the deltoid muscle; along the inner edge of which it runs until it approaches the clavicle • when It dips m between the pectoral and deltoid muscles to' jom the axillary vein. The basihc vein commences its course at the ulnai- side of the wrist, and from thence proceeds upwards correspond- mg to the anterior surface of the ulna inferiorly, and to the imier or ulnar side of the hmnerus superiorly; being situat- ed beneath the skin, and superficial to the fascia, until it ascends as high as the middle thii-d of the arm, where it peneteates the latter, at the imier side of the biceps to jom the deep-seated veins of the arm. The median vein is formed by the confluence of a gi^eat nmnber of smaU veins which constitute a sort of plexus, which corresponds to the antenor or palmer surface of the wrist, immediately above the annular hgament. From this pomt the vein proceeds upwards correspondmg to the inter-osseous hgament; being Pkced, hke the other vems, between the sL and fasda' before it arnves at the bend of the arm, it divides into thr W til? . ' "^'^^ P'^^^'P^ -^-dered the egiWe tenmnation of the trunk. The first division as -ards to jom the cephahc: the point of junction is usually/)0 CLINICAL SURGERY, situated about an incli, or an incli and a half above the elbow-jomt in an aduh. The second passes upwards and inwards to join the basilic at about the same distance above the joint; whilst the tldixl sinks beneath the fascia to join the deep-seated vems of the hmb below the elbow-joint. By looking closely to the median cephalic and median basilic Veins, it will be seen that they are accompanied by a number of small nerves. The perforans Casseri, or external cutaneous becomes superficial immediately above and external to the elbow-joint; where it emerges from between the external margin of the biceps, and the mternal edge of the supmator radu longus muscles. The internal cutaneous nerve usually becomes superficial by penetratmg the fascia in the middle- third of the arm; very often passing out tln-ough the same opening with the basilic vein; the latter being on its way to join the deep-seated veins. I will not detain you with a minute description of these nerves; on beconung superficial they mdividually resolve themselves into a number of small branches which proceed in company with the superficial vems, towards the hand, gradually expending themselves by sending twigs to these vessels, and to the integuments in the neighbourhood. Gentlemen, I now wish to call your attention to the nature of the fascia of the fore-arm; many of you are already aware that it is tolerably strong and mmelding; liere, I wish to remind you that its strength is considerably nicreased anteriorly, immediately below the elbow-jomt, by a fibrous or aponeuretic expansion derived from the uhiar, or internal margin of the tendon of the biceps muscle; this important accession to the fascia of the fore-arm takes an oblique dhection from below upwards and inwardsLECTURE III. ^ 51 towcords the internal tuberosity of the humerus, where it loses itself in the fibrous structure in the neighbourhood. The upper margin of the bicipital aponeurosis is crescentic m shape and well defined, the convexity being directed upwards, wliilst it is graduaHy lost inferiorly in the fibrous tissues in the neighbourhood. I wiU not trouble you with further remarks on bicipital aponeurosis at present, but hereafter, you wiU learn the important part it performs in modifying the aneurismal tumours which occur in this locaHty. Many of you, are already awaje that the bracliial artery IS usuaHy considered as commencing, both its name and com-se, when it escapes from between the tendons of the latissunus dorsi and teres major muscles posteriorly, and the tendon of the pectoraKs major anteriorly; and that it retams this name until it arrives at about an inch below the elbow-jomt, where it resolves itself into its ulthnate divisions; the radial and ulnar arteries. During its course along the arm, the brachial artery gives off some very im- portant branches, which in a sm-gical, as weU as in an aiiatonucal point of view, it is necessary to bear in mind • such, formstance, as the superior and inferior profunda' the anastomatica and their numerous branches. The im' portant anastomosis which these vessels maintaha with those oi t^ fore-arm, by means of the recurrent branches, should never be lost sight of by the practical surgeon. Th general descnption, which I have thus briefly given, you are to consider as the ordinary distribution of the uL- m nd that the laws of nature are often uncertain as regards the distnbution of arteries; consequently, the accident52 CLINICAL SURGERY. and diseases to which they are Hable, must be subject to modifications and varieties :—for example, the trunk of the bracliial artery sometimes divides lugh up in the arm, so that its radial and ulnar divisions, may be said to arrive at the elbow-joirit ready formed. When such a " lusus naturoi" takes place, the usual relations of the parts become materially altered, and in a practical point of view, this merits your particular attention. The relative position wliich the trunk of the brachial artery holds to the median nerve, you should likewise bear in mind. At the upper- third of its course, the nerve hes at the outer or radial side of the artery; but before the vessel arrives at the usual place' of bifurcation, the nerve crosses over to the inner or ulnar side, where it is situated at the bend of the arm. Having premised these anatomical observations, let us now inquire what are the varieties or modifications of trau- matic aneurism which the surgeon is hable to meet with at the bend of the arm ? In reply to this inquiry, I assert, that tlu:ee distinct forms of aneurism, may be produced in this locahty by wounds of the vessels in the neighboui-hood; namely, a diffused false aneurism, a drcimscrihed false aneurism, and the arterio-venous, or varicose aneurism; tliese are distinct from aneurismal varix, wliich always owes its existence to a similar cause. You may now reasonably ask what is the nature of those varieties, and how are they to be distinguished from each other ? To the solution of this question I will now apply myself, by supposing an inexperienced person undertook to perform the ordinary operation of venajsection, and it so happened that in the case which presented itseK, there was, unfortunately a " high division" of the brachial artery, and that one of the63 LECTURE III. branches^ say the uhiar, took a superficial course, and fomed a prominent hue along the fore-arm and was mistaken for a vein and opened, what are the phenomena which would immediately occur ? Why, the embarrassed operator being alarmed by the sudden gush of arterial blood, would, in aU probabihty, proceed by compress and bandage to pre- vent further external bleeding; but to accomphsh tliis ob- ject he must use a good deal of force and apply his bandage tightly. Supposing this has been done as well as the cir- cumstances of the case will admit of at the moment; what is next to be expected ? In the com-se of a few hours, the patient sufi'ering from pain and tension in the hmb, will again apply to the surgeon for rehef. On inspection the fore- arm and hand will be found tumid and livid; the swelling may not extend above the place where the hgature was applied, or it may be continued up towards the axilla.. This state of things can be easily accounted for on mechanical principles; the superficial vems havmg been compressed by the bandage, the blood is prevented from returning tlirough them to the heart; they can no longer receive the arterial blood brought to their capillary extremities; consequently, the arteries themselves become distended, and from the pressure on their exhalent terminations, a quantity of serum will become efiused into the cellular tissue in the neigh- bourhood. Thus, then, it is plain, that the swoUen state of the hmb depends, in some degree, on the congested state of the blood-vessels, and the effusion naturally resulting from it; however, in the great majority of cases of diffused false aneurism, the sweDing is cliiefiy produced by the extravasa- tion of ari;erial blood. The anatomical position wliich the blood shall occupy, must vary in different cases; this beingCLINICAL SURGERY. 54 determined by the situation in which the wounded artery happens to be placed. Eor example, in the present instance I am supposing the artery to run between the skin and fascia, consequently, the extravasated blood must be super- ficial to the fascia, although it may extend from the axilla to the wrist. On the other hand, if the wounded artery should be situated, as it usually is, beneath the fascia and bicipital aponeurosis, very Httle, if any, of the extravasated blood will then make its way between the fascia, but wall proceed upwards and inwards in the course of the brachial artery, for the following obvious anatomical reasons:—The effusion having taken place beneath the fascia and bicipital aponeurosis, it would be prevented by these strong membranes from coming directly forward, and their close attachment to the muscles of the fore-arm would not admit of its passing down towards the hand : the biceps would not allow it to take a direction outwards; whilst the brachiahs anticus muscle, the humerus, and the internal intermuscular hga- ment would prevent the possibility of its passing back- wards ; hence it is, that it must take the direction I have described. Gentlemen, from what I have already stated, you are prepared to expect that a deep-seated diffused false aneurism would present itself in the form of an oblong swelling, ex- tending from the bend of the arm upwards and inwards towards the axilla: the density and pulsation of the tumour must vary according to the condition of the effused blood— for example, if the blood had coagulated, the swelling would then be firm, and attended with a very obscure pul- sation ; but, if on the contrary, the blood had not coagu- lated, the tumour would be soft and somewhat elastic,LECTURE III. 55 attended with a distinct pulsation^ which would be more remarkable in the course of the artery than at the cu'cum- ference. If a case of this description were allowed to run its own course, the following changes would, in all proba- bihty, take place in the arm. The tumefaction, tension, and pain, would aU increase in degree of severity; the patient would instinctively, keep the fore-arm iu a state of semi-flexion, in order to relax the fascia, and by tliis means alleviate the pain; matters will now proceed from bad to worse; inflammation becomes quickly estabhshed; a mode- rate degree of wliich will be quite sufficient to produce gan- grene in a hmb, in which the circulation had been con- siderably impeded, if not altogether obstructed by the pressure of extravasated blood in its vessels: gangrene having once commenced, it is impossible for the most experienced practitioner to predict with confidence, the extent to which it may proceed. The constitution of the patient, wliich was from the outset, more or less disturbed from pain and irritation, now evinces its sympathy in the form of fever of a low type; characterised by prostration of strength, a sunken countenance, a quick, small intermittent pulse, brown parched tongue, low dehrium and hiccough, until death terminates the patient's sufferings. I have now given you a brief description of the cause, varieties, symptoms and pathology of the diffused false aneurisms, wliich you should be prepared to meet with at the bend of the arm; I will say nothing of the treatment wliich ought to be adopted in such cases, untfl I describe the other forms of tramnatic aneiuism which are hkely to occur in tliis locality. With a view to consider the exact nature of the circum- scnbed false aneurism, it is only necessary for you, to sup-CLIKICAL SURGERT. 56 ' pose that in performing the ordinary operation of vensesec- tion, that the operator selected the median basilic vein, where it crosses the bracliial artery, and that he plunged the lancet in with sufficient force to transfix the veia, pene- trate the fascia and bicipital aponeurosis, and open the anterior wall of the artery, to understand what must imme- diately follow. On the withdrawal of the lancet, the wound of the artery would at once be announced, by the impetuous iTish of a stream composed of both venous and arterial blood tlKough the wound. If pressure were now made on the brachial artery at some distance above the wound, the velocity of the stream would, at once, be diminished, and its venous character become more apparent than before; but if the pressure on the artery be discontinued for a moment, the blood will rush out "jper saltnm" with its former im- petuosity, and of a brighter colour; showing plainly that the artery had contributed largely to the common stream. We will now suppose that the operator bound up the wound with compress and bandage, and that the patient not having suffered much inconvenience from their appHcation, was satisfied to allow them to remaiu on for two or three days after the operation, when they were for the first time re- moved. The following would then be the probable appear- ance which the hmb would present:—the external, or cutaneous wound, would be healed by the adliesive inflam- mation ; the skin for some distance around it would be of a bluish tint, indicating that some blood had been effused beneath it; the wounds in the vein would likewise have been united by the first intention, wlulst only a partial agglutination of the hps of the wound in the artery had taken place. Should the compress and bandage be nowLECTURE III. 57 imprudently discontinued, a cii-cumscribed false aneurism would gradually develope itself in the following manner :— The pressure of the compress and bandage having been removed, the tinorganised lymph, which hitherto filled up the wound in the artery, was gradually displaced by the stream of blood wliich incessantly rushed along its inner smface; a small portion of blood made its way into the ceUular membrane, in the neighboui-hood, which became condensed so as to form a capsule or sac, for this incipient aneurism. In a short thne a pulsating tumour would become visible at the seat of the injury, characterised by the follow- ing symptoms :—The tumoiu- would vary as to its size and density, not only in different cases, but in the same case in different stages of its development; we accordingly, some- thnes, find it not larger than a hazel nut, globular as to shape, soft and compressible; and should pressure be ap- phed to the brachial artery for a moment close to the tumour, provided the blood which forms it be not coagulated, will disappear, but when aU pressure is again removed it will return to its former state. Should this aneurism be neglect- ed it will graduaUy increase in size, and lose its globular form, and assume, in a limited degree, the shape and dh-ec- tion of the deep-seated false aneurism. You may naturaUy inquire in what respect do the circum- scribed false aneurisms, which occur at the bend of the arm, differ from the true aneurisms to be met with in the ham and elsewhere? The difference between them is weU marked and easily understood : a true anemism owes Its origin to a morbid condition of the coats of the arter\^ with which it is connected; and its sac, is formed either by the dilatation of the three coats of the artery, or by that of theCLINICAL SURGERY. 58 external one only; the two inner ones having given way in consequence of previous degeneration of structui'e. Before the time of Scaup a, the term true was apphed only to such aneurisms as owed their sacs to the weakened, and subse- quently distended state of all the coats of the artery; but since his work appeared^ surgeons are in the habit of assigning to the word a more comprehensive meaning. Traumatic cu-cumscribed false aneurism^ mustj as the name imphes, be the result of a wound in an artery by wliich all the coats have been divided^ so that the sac is formed altogether inde- pendent of them; by the condensation of the cellular mem- brane in the neighbourhood^ which is effected, partly by pressure and partly by the adliesive inflammation. The arterio-venous, or varicose aneurism differs but httle in its history or pathology from the one I have just des- cribed ; however, I feel that there are a few pomts of pecu- liarity which require explanation. I told you that in the former case not only the wounds in the skin but likewise those inflicted in the transfixed vein, had become perfectly healed before the compress and bandage had been removed from the patient's arm j I now apprise you that it some- times happens, although the wound in the skin and in the anterior wall of the vein may have healed by the first intention; yet, that the posterior wound in the vein, and the one in the anterior wall of the arterj', may have been but imperfectly closed. In a case of tliis kind, an aneuris- mal tumour may, according to the principles I have already explained, be estabhshed in the cellular tissue situated between the vein and the artery, communicating anteriorly with the former, and posteriorly with the latter. Under such circumstances, it is ob\aous, that the blood contained59 LECTURE III. ill the anem-ismal sac must be of a mixed character, being principally suppHed by the artery, wliilst the vein also, con- tributes its quota. From a consideration of these anatomi- cal and pathological facts, you must at once perceive tha,t pressure apphed to the artery above the tumour, although it may destroy its pulsation, for the time being, will not neces- sarily alter its size to any great extent, inasmuch as the vein will continue to pour in its supply of blood. When an aneurism of this description has lasted for some time, the superficial veins of the fore-arm become both enlarged and tortuous, from the wrist to some distance above the tumour j hence it is, that Dr. W. Hunter, who it is generally admit- ted, was the first person to call the attention of the profes- sion to this form of disease, gave it the name of " varicose aneurismyou will find Dr. Hunter's description of this affection in the volumes of the Medical Observations and Inquiries, pubhshed in the years 1757, and 1764. After what I have now stated, I do not think it necessary to occupy your time at any length with a description of the aneurismal varix of authors, which, in ahnost every respect, bears a sti-ong sumHtude to the arterio-venous, or varicose aneurism, which we have just disposed of. The only diffe- rence between these two affections is, that in the latter, the artery^ and vein communicate by means of an intervening aneurismal sac; whereas, in the aneurismal varix, there is a direct communication between the artery and vein, whicli have been incorporated with each other at the seat of the injury by the adhesive inflammation, in such a manner that the openings in the artery and vein are converted into one of reciprocal communication between these vessels. Such being the case, and the blood circulating through the arteryCLINICAL SURGERY. 60 being propelled by a stronger force than that in the vein, it is natural to expect that a much greater quantity of arterial blood win pass tlu-ough this common opening into the vein, than of venous into the artery. Should this opening of communication, be of moderate size; in the course of time the following important changes wiU take place, in the vessels themselves, in the distribution of blood through the hmb, and in the hmb itself. The artery will increase in size for some distance above the wound, and according to Dr. Hunter and M. J. Cloquet, it wiU become smaller than natural below it; whilst Breschet maintains that the artery becomes increased in diameter below as well as above the wound; he further adds, that its coats become thinner and more yielding than natural, and that they ulti- mately assume a structure analogous to those of a vein. This he seems to think very natural, under the altered cir- cumstance of the case, inasmuch as he considers the blood which now circulates through the artery, must be of a mixed character. That the veins become increased in size and assume a varicose condition, are facts admitted by all, but Beeschet states, that in addition to these alterations, the veins in the vicinity of the injury and extending for some distance towards the heart, become tliicker than natural, and that they assume a structure resembhng the coats of arteries. He seems to tliink that such a change is necessary in order to adapt the vein to its newly acquired office, of receiviag and giving transmission to arterial blood. I must admit my incompetency to decide upon tliis discre- pancy of opinion, not having been so fortunate as to witness the post mortem examination of any person who had been affected either with arterio-venous aneurism, or \vith aneu- rismal varix.61 LECTURE III. Let us now, consider, for a moment what changes will occur ia the distribution of the blood in the hmb ? The alterations which must take place in this respect, are at once obvious and important. Eor iastance, the arterial blood wliich was intended for the nutrition of the fore-arm and hand, having been, by the accidental wounds in the artery and vein, suddenly interrupted in its course, and prematurely sent back to the heart; the consequence must be, a defective state of nutrition, followed by atrophy of the hmb, attended with a diminution of temperature, and loss of strength. It is scarcely necessary for me to mention, that both in varicose aneurism, and aneurismal varix, you are not only to expect the usual characteristic symptom of pulsation, but you will in addition, have it accompanied with a Inssing noise, and an undulatory tlirill; the former depending upon the fact of the arterial blood being forcibly driven tlirough the opening in the artery, either into the sac by which both vein and artery communicate; or directly into the vein; the latter being a continuation of the shock combined with the sudden claslnng of two currents of blood, naturally intended to run in opposite directions, through separate vessels. Gentlemen, having thus, given you a description of the various accidents and diseases which are Hable to occur from wounds of the blood-vessels at the bend of the arm, I wiQ now endeavour to point out to you the best methods of meeting those emergencies, by the employment of the re- sources which practical surgery can supply. Let us begin the consideration of tliis subject by asking what a surgeon ought to do, supposing he had reason to beHeve from the history of the case, and ocular evidence that the brachial artery had been wounded ? Under such circmnstances, if62 CLINICAL SURGERY. tlie case were mine, I would proceed as follows:—In the first instance I would procure a long roUer, and as much Hnt, or sponge as would be sufficient to make a compress; the hemorrhage being restrained, in the mean- time, by an assistant; who either with, or mthout the aid of a tourniquet made efiicient pressure on the bracliial artery above the wound; I would proceed to apply the bandage from the fingers (the fingers themselves being included) up to the bend of the arm: I would then place the compress over the wound, and with repeated figure of 8 turns of the bandage, make moderate pressure, with the hope that such a wound might heal without the supervention of any aneu- rismal affection whatever. I would then have the patient placed in bed, with liis arm moderately extended on a pillow, and give directions that the bandage and compress should be kejDt constantly wet with a cold evaporating lotion. I would hkewise adopt, in a rigid manner, the antiphlogistic plan of treatment, and moderate the heart's action by the cautious administration of small doses of tartar-emetic and digitahs. I have stated that I would keep the limb in the ex- tended position j the reason why I consider this the best posi- tion is the following :—We are to suppose the wound in the artery is in the longitudinal direction, that is to say, that its greatest diameter corresponds with the long axis of the wounded vessel; tliis being the case, it is ob^dous that by keeping the arm in the extended position, the extremities of the wound must be draw far asunder; and in this way its lips or sides brought close to each other, and placed in a position favourable to union by adhesion. If the patient could bear tliis state of tilings for five or six days, I would then cautiously remove the bandage; but would not disturbLECTURE III. 63 the coDoipress. I would now apply a new roller with, a moderate degree of tightness, and direct a continuation of the antiphlogistic plan of treatment, with some mitigation, for at least a week longer. By this time the wound in the artery will, m aU probabihty, have healed and the habihty to aneurism passed away. I have known two cases treated in this way with complete success; one by the late Mr. T. EojfEY, the other by the late Mr. Todd, both gentlemen of liigh professional attainments and of well merited distinction. I must now apprise you of the chcumstances which would render a perseverance in the plan of treatment I have just described, both impracticable and improper. For example, if in a few hours after the application of the compress and bandage, the patient complained of intolerable pain and tension in the hmb, and that he earnestly insisted on then- removal, the inference to be draMTi is that although there is no bleeding externally, yet, that a diffused false aneurism is being formed by the effu- sion of arterial blood beneath the skin and fascia. If such be the case, the removal of the bandage will afford the patient great reHef from the pam and tension, whilst the limb wiU present a swollen appearance, more especiaUy along the course of the bracliial artery. If the extravasated blood have coagulated, the swelhng wiU be firm and attended ^vith httle or no pulsation; but if, on the contrary the effused blood still retain its fluid state, the swelhng will be comparatively soft, and attended with a sort of undulatory pulsation; winch wiU be more distinct in the neighbourhood ot the axtery than in any other paxt of the tumour. In his embamssmg state of things what ought the surgeon to do f The instory of the case, and existing symptoms64 CLINICAL SURGERY. having been sufficient to convince him, not only that the artery had been wounded, but that a diffused false aneurism of great urgency had been already formed, and that pressure had been tried and failed to afford any prospect of rehef; it is now obviously the duty of the surgeon to open the tumour freely; and having removed the extravasated blood and found the wound in the artery, he should then pass an aneurismal needle, armed with a double hgature from witliin, outwards, aroimd it, and tie the vessel both above and below the wound. Some years since I saw a case of this description ti-eated in the manner I have described by the late Mr. T. Roney in the Meath Hospital, and no untoward symptom occurred after the operation. The following case was treated bymyseK, pretty much m the same mamier and attended by similar gratifying results. I will quote from the case book of the hospital— "James Lawless, aged 26 years, was admitted into hospital, under the following circumstances. He stated eight days previous to admission he had been bled in the countiy for a pain in his side; that the blood was very red and jumped out thTon.gh the cut, and that after some time the Doctor bandaged up liis arm so tightly that he could not bear the pain longer than a quarter of an hour, when he was compelled to have it loosened; then the sweUiug in- creased and extended up along the arm; and in the course of three or four hours became as large as it was at the time of his coming to the hospital. Upon examination it was obvious, not only that an important artery had been wounded, but that a diffused anem-ism had actuaUy been estabhslied. The wound in the integuments had healed, and a firm timiour extended from the bend of the arm for a distance65 LECTURE III. of three or fom- inclies, in the coiirse of the brachial artery; it was hard and painful to the touch; pulsation and the bruit de souflet could be recognised over the greater part of it; but both these symptoms disappeared and the size of the tumour diminished, when pressure was made on the brachial artery above the tumoui-. The hmb was rigid and in a flexed position, and very painful; the pulse at the wrist full and strong (86), but not materially different from that of the opposite side. The patient complained much of pahi and heat in the arm, and was both anxious and restless. He was ordered twelve leeches to the swelling, and after the leeches dropped off, to have the limb enveloped in a hnseed poultice; purgative medicine was also administered. 2lst.—He slept better than he had done since the acci- dent occurred; the medicine operated freely. He was ordered to continue the poultice and to take the following mixture:— R Antimonii Tartarizati, gr. ii. Tinctures DigitaHs, - 3i. Aquaj Purse, - f^vii. Syrupi Simphcis - f^ss. m. sumatur uncia tertia quaque hora. Zm.—The size of the tumour is considerably diminished; it is also less tense and painful than heretofore; the pulsa- tion is weaker, but still very distinct. Pulse 60. The sedative mixture was continued. 2m.~B.aYmg got out of bed yesterday without per- mission, and disturbed the arm, the tumour has increased very much, and is pahiful; the pulsation is more distinct than it has been for the last two days. The mixture was66 CLINICAL SURGERY. contintiecl, and a lotion composed of the folloAving ingre- dients prescribed for the arm:— R Mnriatis Ammonia?, 3ss. Aceti Destillatij - §iv. Aquse DestiUatEe, - §xii. m. ft. lotio more dicto utenda. —He states that the lotion gave him much relief; but that he slept badly in consequence of his uneasy state of mind about Ms arm, that there is no pain in the tumour; however the characteristic symptoms of the diffused aneu- rism being still present, Mr. EUis directed that the surgeons of the hospital should be summoned for the next day, whicli was carried into eifect. 27;;/^.—At consultation tliis morning, it was agreed that the bracliial artery ought to be tied, and the operation was accordingly performed by Mr. EUis in the folloMring manner:— The patient having been placed in a chair beside a table upon which the fore-arm was extended, and a tom-niquet, as a precautionary measure, placed upon the upper part of the arm; an obhque incision directed from above downwards and inwards was then made, commencing about an inch above, and extending to the same distance below the tumour; this incision divided the mtegiunents completely; and a second carried in the track of the &st, chvided the fascia and opened the tumoui-. The coagulum was then turned out, and after a good deal of difTiculty the wound in the artery was discovered; a probe was then passed into it, as recommended by Scarpa, in order to ascer- tain the precise nature of the wounded vessel. An aneu- rismal needle armed with a hgature was now passed from within outwards around the artery, Avliich was tied both67 TRAUMATIC ANEURISMS. above and below the wound. The tourniquet was now relaxed, but no further bleeding occurred; the pulse at the wrist could not be felt immediately after the operation. The hps of the wound were now brought together and re- tamed ia this state by strips of adhesive plaster; a piece of hnt dipped in cold water was apphed over the dressings and the patient sent to bed, his arm being placed on a pillow, m the demiflexed position. On being questioned in a short time after he went to bed, as to his feehngs before and after the operation; he stated that he felt reheved mune- diately after the first incision was made, and that the pain of the operation was trivial compared with what he suffered from the tune 'he was bled in the country.^ lUh.—The arm continued cold and somewhat benumbed for five hours after the operation. At the end of this tune the natural temperatiu-e retiirned tothehmb,thepulse m the radial artery became perceptible, and the disagreeable sensation of partial munbness had hkewise subsided to a considerable extent. Notwithstandmg this unprovement m liis symptoms; he continued restless, and was accordmgly ordered an anodyne draught. March 5M.—The wound is suppurating kindly, he sleeps tolerably weU, but wishes for the anodyne at night, there being still some disagreeable sensation in the hmb. March %m.~On the tenth day after the operation the hgatiares came away; the wouud continued to heal kindly; and having acquired the perfect use of the arm, he was dismissed at the end of the third week after the operation.^^ TRAUMATIC ANEURISMS. Gentiemen—The case I have just now read for you68 ClINICAt SURGERY. fumislies a fair illustration of the practice wliicli has been generally adopted in Dubhn during the last twenty years. Previous to tliis period some surgeons seemed to think that the application of one hgature above the tumour, would even in cases of diffused brachial aneurism, prove sufficient to accomphsh a cure; however, as this practice has been abandoned by its former advocates, I will not further tres- pass on your time with its consideration; but at once pro- ceed to enquire what is the most approved of plan of treat- ment in cases of circumscribed bracliial aneurism? In reply to this inquiry I wish to apprise you that a cui-e may be accomphshed by either of two methods of treatment, viz.—compression, or the application of one hgature above the aneurismal tumour. The surgeon who consults the feelings of his patient, and who is unwilling to cause unne- cessary paia, will in every instance try the former practice, before having recourse to the latter, which he can do Avith every prospect of success, after his efforts to accomphsh a cure by the mild or bloodless method have proved unsuccess- ful. Thus, then, in accordance with this rule, when called to attend a case of circumscribed brachial aneurism, you should in the first instance endeavour to effect a cure by means of compress and bandage, before you would tliink of having recourse to a painful, and perhaps unnecessarj- opera- tion. With a view to accomphsh this object, you should supply yourselves with such compresses and bandage as I have already described when speaking of recently uiflicted wounds of the bracliial artery. The bandage should be apphed as in the former instance; the operator to commence by including the fingers, and from thence proceeding upwards, and when arrived at the tumour; the compressTRAUMATIC ANEURISMS. 69 sliould be placed over it, extending some distance up along the coui'se of the bracliial artery, and retained in this situa- tion by repeated figure of eight turns of the bandage, which should be appHed with a moderate degree of tightness. Pormerly surgeons who had faith in compression supposed that it effected a cure, when successfully apphed, by obhter- ating, not only the aneurismal sac itself, but also the artery for some distance above and below it. The eiToneous nature of this opioion is at present weU known; for it has been ascertained by experience, that severe pressure is not only unnecessaiy to the accomphshment of a cure, but the bad effects wliich may result from it clearly demonstrated. When pressure is too strongly apphed in cases of tliis kind, the imperfect aneurismal sac often gives way; the blood then becomes diffused, and the case is in every respect, rendered worse than it was previous to the apphcation of the com- press and bandage. In coiToboration of this statement, I may mention that a few years ago, a case of circumscribed false aneurism at the bend of the arm, was admitted into the Jervis-street Hospital, under the care of one of my col- leagues, who attempted to cure it by compression. The pressure havkg been too forcibly apphed, the sac gave way, and a diffused aneurism became estabbshed, for the cure of winch it was necessary to have recourse to such a tedious and painful operation as I have abeady described in the case of Lawless. In the first volume of the BuUin Journal of Medical Snence, you wiU find a veiy interesting report of tlnee cases of teamnatic brachial aneurism, wliich were treated in Stevens Hospital by Dr. Cusack. He judiciously attempted a cure, by pressure apphed over the tumour in aU these cases70 CLINICAL SURGERY. mth. wliicli lie combined the Yalsalvian plan of treatment constitutionally. In two of these cases tliis method of treatment x^roved snf&cient to accomplish perfect cures without causing obhteration of the arteries engaged. In the third case the sac, unfortunately, gave way and a diffused aneurism was the consequence, wliich was afterwards success- fully treated by the ligature, as in the cases I have just mentioned. In Scaepa's work on aneurism, you wiU fuid an interesting account of the effects produced by pressure, both as regards the state of the artery engaged, and the aneurismal tumour itself. It appears from the post mortem examinations made by this distmguished writer, that the cure of circumscribed false anemisms at the bend of the arm, is usually effected without causing obliteration of the artery itself, or the lieahng of the wound originally inflicted in its parietes. In the dissections reported in Scarpa's work, the original aneurisms winch were cured by pressure, appear to have degenerated into small tumoui-s, consistmg of the fibrine of the blood, which had externally estabhshed a connexion with the cncumjacent cellular membrane, and internally with the aperture m the artery. In one of the cases described by tliis author, the inner part of the aneu- rismal opening was closed by a calcareous deposit. For the particulars of these cases I must refer you to the work I have mentioned. Tlie second method of treating cncumscribed traumatic aneurism at the bend of the arm is simple and easy of com- prehension : it consists in cutthig down on the artery and tying it with a single Hgature, immediately above the tumour. The aneurism itself is not to be cut into, but its removal left to the action of the absorbents, wliich seldomTRAUMATIC ANEURISMS. 71 fail to perforin the duty assigned to them, I do not think it necessary to detain you with a minute description of the snaple operation of tying the bracliial artery in the lower tliird of its course. It is by no means a difficult operation, and I beheve, when properly performed, it never fails to accomphsh a cure in the species of aneurism we are now considering. Some years ago I had a private case of this description of anem-ism, for the cui-e of which I operated being assisted by the late distinguished singeon, Mr. Colles, I experienced no difficulty in exposing the artery imme- diately above the tumom-; but the median nerve crossing anterior to this vessel lower down than usual; it accord- ingly came m my way and annoyed me very much. The pecuharity to which I wish to caH your attention is, that whenever the nei-ve was touched, even with a blunt instrmnent, such as a probe, spatula, or hook, for the pur- pose of removing it out of the way of the aneuiism needle the patient screamed most violently, and bitterly complained of the excmciating pain he felt in the wound and extending from It, do^vn to the points of the fingers. At this time I had comparatively httle experience in such cases; but Mr Colles assured me that he never before witnessed any thing hke the pam complained of by our patient, who was a gen- tleman about thirty-five years old, and appeared to possess as much fortitude as most men. The hgature was, in the usual way, passed under the artery from within out- wards, the hps of the wound brought together by adhesive piaster ; and a large anodyne draught admmistered. In eight days after the operation the hgature came away; by this time the tumour had become a good deal smaller and firmer than it was; and in a mouth after the operation theCLINICAL SURGERY. 72 wound was perfectly healed^ the tumour had nearly disap- peared, and the pulse at the wrist was as well developed as in the arm of the opposite side. Gentlemen, we have now arrived at the consideration of the best method of treating the arterio-venous or varicose aneurism. It is a weU estabhshed rule in surgery that we should never operate in a case of this kind unless when compelled to do so by urgent cii-cumstances. For example, suppose pressure had been fairly tried without advantage, that the tumour is increasing in size, that it is painfal and the hmb swollen; when this state of things is estabhshed, the necessity for surgical interference is but too obvious. The operation wliich promises most advantage under such circumstances is that of tying the artery above the aneurismal tumour, as in the case I have just men- tioned; leaving the tumour itself to the action of the absorbents. Judging from the hterature of this subject, the operation should be undertaken with the utmost caution and circumspection, inasmuch as the records of surgery fur- nish but few cases in which it was not followed by unto- ward consequences. I have myself witnessed but one case of this form of aneurism, in which the artery was tied. The case I allude to was treated by the late Mr. Hewson in the Meath Hospital. Tor some days after the operation the case appeared unpromising, the tumom- ha^^ng retained its former size and pulsation. On the tliii-d day after tiie operation Mr. Hewson appHed a compress of lint over the tumour, and retained it in this position by strips of adlie- sive plaster, wliich were drawn obhquely over it; but in such a manner as not to completely encircle the limb, so as to impede the retui-n of venous blood. In tiie course ofTEMPORAL ANEURISMS. 73 tliree or four days, the compress was cautiously removed for the purpose of ascertaining the state of the tumour, whicli was most satisfactory. The swelHng was not one-half the size it had been previous to the appHcation of the compress : it had acquired a soHd feel particularly at its cii-cumference, and the pidsation had become exceedingly obscure. The compress was again applied as before : the hgatm'e came away m eight or nine days, and the patient left the hospital in five or six weeks perfectly cured. In cases of anemismal varix the surgeon should never interfere beyond recommending the patient to wear a ban- dage constantly on the hmb to prevent over distension of the veins. TEMPORAL ANEUEISMS. Gentlemen, wounds of the temporal arteries and the dis- agreeable consequences wliich often arise from them have not, m my opmion, received that degree of attention which then- miportance demands. The temporal artery may be opened accidentaUy, or it may be the vessel selected by the practitioner for the abstraction of blood; as is often the case m apoplexy, inflammation of the bram or its mem- branes, and m violent inflammaidons of the eye. Mv exne nence of wounds of the temporal arteries, no matter whetL accidentaUy or surgicahy inflicted, has convinced me that rtTer f "^^'^^ ^ cha- racter. I have known cases which, in the first instance appeared smiple in their natui-e and indicative of no '''' ' - «^ these casd a se les of vexatious phenomena subsequently occurred which not only annoyed and baflled the efforts of the fet'74 CLINICAL surgehy. practitioners, but ultimately terminated in the death of the patient. T^or my own part, so fully impressed am I ot the untoward consequences which occasionally anse from the operation, that I have not for some years past, taken blood from the temporal artery, except in cases of great emer- aency, such as an apoplectic seizure or gonorrheal ophthal- mia. The bad effects which sometimes result from a wound of the temporal arteiy, may be either unmediate, or remote. By the former I mean an obstinate hemon-hage which is restrained with difficulty; and under the latter I would include secondary hemorrhage, traumatic aneunsm, and erysipelas. "men you meet with an obstmate case of bleeding from the temporal artery, the safest and most effectual mode of suppressing it, is by cutting the vessel itseH completely across, and in tliis way affording the cut extremities an opportunity of contracting, so that the bleeding will qmckly subside. If the original wound were inflicted by a sharp instrument, its hps should be brought together and re- tained in contact by strips of adhesive plaster, and com- presses of hnt placed over the wound. The antiphlogistic plan of treatment should Hkewise be put in force, and regulated according to the constitution of the patient, and the pecuhar chcumstances of the case. The dressings should not be removed sooner than the fourth day after theu- first application. By tliis time the wound mtII have healed, and the open extremities of the divided artery become obliterated by the adhesive inflammation, consequently, the danger of secondary hemorrhage or the formation of an aneunsmahnost, \i not altogether, prevented. The part should now be dress- ed dimply, tiie compress rcapphcd and continued for tlireeTEMPORAL ANEURISMS. 75 or four days longer, by wMch time the parts affected wiU have become consoHdated and all danger of secondary he- mon-hage or the formation of an aneurism passed away. Such IS the plan of treatment I thmk most advisable to adopt in cases of obstmate hemorrhage from the temporal artery when caused by a simple incised wound, but, if the wound were attended with contusion or laceration as frequently happens, then the treatment should be somewhat different from what I have described. For instance, in the latter case, it would be perfectly useless to attempt union by the first intention, inasmuch as the Hps of the wound would not be in a condition susceptible of adhesive inflammation. The best practice to adopt m this case, after the complete division of the artery had been effected, would be to dress the wound from the bottom with compresses of hnt, previ- ously dipped m some efficacious slyptic, such as a saturated solution of alum, or sphits of turpentine. The compresses may be removed with safety on the fourth day; by this time aU tendency to hemorrhage wiU have ceased, and suppuration havmg been fuUy estabhshed in the wound, the dressing WiU come away with facihty. The wound may now be dressed with shnple ointment, and in a few days the cure will be complete. What I have already stated relative to the pathology of tramnatic bracliial anemism, is strictly apphcable to the aneurisms produced by wounds of the temporal arteries. I ^ not, therefore, delay you wi'th a superfluous description of phenomena, with which you are already acquainted, but at once proceed to enquire in what state may a siu-geon find a temporal aneurism ? He may be called on to fa-eat such a case m any one of the three foUowing stages.-Krst, whenCLINICAL SURGERY. 76 the tumour presents all the characteristic sjTuptoms of aueuiism, but unaccompanied with inflammation.—Secondly, the sui-geon may see the case for the first time, when in addition to the symptoms I have alluded to, there will be considerable redness, heat, and pain in the tumour and its vicinity.—Thirdly, the surgeon may not be called on, until the integuments have in part been destroyed by sloughing and ulcerative absorption, so that hemorrhage has actually taken place. I will now suppose that a case of the first form of the disease has been submitted for our considera- tion, and ask what is the best method of treating it? Surgeons have not as yet agreed upon any fixed plan of treating such a case : you may, therefore, expect to see one practitioner employ pressure, a second would prefer tying the artery at the cardiac side of the tumour, lea\dng the latter unopened; wliilst a tliii-d would cut down at once into the sac, turn out the coagulum, tie the artery both above and below the aneurismal openmg, then divide it between the hgatures and dress the wound. Experience has convinced me that all the methods of treatment wliich I have enumerated are hable to objection, a,nd in the great majority of instances fail to accomphsh the object in view. In the first place, I never could suc- ceed hi curmg a case by compression, although I have often tried to do so. I always found that the degree of com- pression necessary to effect a cure, produced inflammation in the part, so that the second form of the disease became estabhshed; and if the pressure were stiU persevered in, the tliird stage ensued, characterised by ulceration, slough- ing, and hemorrhage. The plan of treatment by apphing a hgature on the ai-tery at the cardiac side of the tumour isTEMPORAL ANEURISMS. objectionable for the following reasons:—a ligature so applied will not necessaiily cut off the supply of blood from the tumour in such a manner as to accomplish a cure^ inasmuch as the free anastamoses wliich exist between the branches of the temporal arteries of opposite sides^will furnish an abundant supply of bloody which will flow into the sac, at the distal side, and in this way, render the operation ineffectual, whilst the wound, irritated by the Ligature left in it, might give rise to erysipelas. My objection to the tliird method, apphes solely to the employment of ligatures, which I con- sider worse than useless, by acting as foreign bodies. The plan of treatment which I have found successful in all cases of temporal aneurism, no matter what may be the state of the parts at the time, is to open the tumour freely, so as to completely divide the artery, sponge out the blood, and dress the wound from the bottom with graduated com- presses of hnt, previously dipped in spirits of turpentine. These should be kept on by a roller applied with a mode- rate degree of tightness, and not removed sooner than the fourth day after the operation, when the wound will usually be found suppurating kindly. The case should now be treated in every respect, in the manner I have described, when speaking of obstinate cases of primary he- morrhage. Erysipelas is one of the bad consequences which may result from a wound of the scalp involving the temporal artery, the more especially if hgatures should be apj)lied to the vessel, or sutures inserted in the Avound; however, as this subject will occupy our attention on a futui-e occasion, I Avill not now further trespass on your time.this objection, I will, in the first instance, proceed with CHAPTER ly. LECTURE lY. Injuries of the head and their varieties.—Anatomical peculiarities of the scalp.—Contusions of the scalp and their effects.—Bloody tumours and their modifications.— Simple-incised, lacerated, and contused wounds of the scalp, and the bad consequences which may result from them.—Erysipelas in general.—Idiopathic, and traumatic erysipelas of the head and face, ilhistrated by cases.— Practical remarks on the cases. Gentlemen, I wisli to call your attention^ on the pesent occasion^ to injuries of the head; they are so frequently to be met with in practice, so variable in their nature, and often so serious in their consequences, that they deserve the most attentive consideration of the student. With a view to simplify the study of the subject as much as possible, I will commence by asking, how may injuries of the head be divided in reference to the parts affected ? The reply to this question, is simple and easy of comprehension—viz., into those whicli affect the scalp—those wliich affect the skull itself—and those which affect the unportant parts contained witliin it. However, you are to bear in mind, that this an-angement is liable to objection, uiasmuch as we frequently meet with cases in which all the parts I have enumerated are simultaneously implicated. Notwithstaud-LECTURE IV. 79 tlie consideration of tlie iujui-ies wliicli may affect the scalp only, without necessaiily involving other parts m its vicinity. Injuries of the scalp axe more serious in then- consequen- ces, and often requii-e treatment somewhat different fromthose of a sunilar nature, inflicted m the common integuments elsewhere, for the following reasons. The scalp is very complex in its structure, being formed of skin, adipose, reticular, and fibrous membrane. Taking it as a whole, it is weU organized, inasmuch as it receives an abundant supply of blood-vessels and nerves j although some of its compo- nent parts, hold a low place in the scale of organization. The blood-vessels which supply the pericranium, anasta- mose, with those of the skull and dura-mater; and in this way, there is avascular communication established between them and the parts contained within the skull; a circum- stance which, in the opinion of most practitioners, is favoura- ble to the propagation of morbid action. When common inflammation attacks any particular part, its effects will be more or less modified according to the simphcity or com- plexity of the structures engaged; this being the case, theUj it becomes obvious that the injuries of the scalp wliich give rise to inflammation, are Hable to be attended with bad consequences; not only on account of its pecuharity of struc- ture, and high degree of organization, but also, its proximity to the braiu and its membranes. Tlie scalp, in consequence of its exposed situation, is more subject to contusions and wounds of every description than the integuments in other parts of the body. Con- tusions of the scalp seldom fail to give rise to extrava- sations of blood, for obvious reasons. For instance,80 CLINICAL SURGERY. when tlie scalp receives a smart blow from a blunt instru- ment, tlie blood-vessels wliicli happen to be situated between the part stricken, and the skull, will necessarily be ruptured; inasmuch as the bone beneath, will nort permit them to evade the destructive effects of the blow by yielding, as would be the case if a similar degree of injuiy were apphed to a soft part of equal vascularity, such as the calf of the leg, the fleshy part of the tliigh, &c. The anatomical position which the gi-eater part of the effused blood must occupy, is between the expanded tendon of the occipito- frontahs muscle and the pericranium, where the cellular membrane is loose and reticular, for its reception. The bloody tumours caused, by contusions of the scalp, present themselves under various forms. In some instances, they are small and of sohd consistence throughout their entire extent, in other cases they violl, perhaps, extend from the transverse ridge of the occipital bone, nearly as far forwards as the supercihary ridges of the frontal; being bounded both before and behmd by the attachments of the occipito- frontahs muscle. In such a case as tliis, the tumour is usually soft, at least, for some time after the injury, indi- cating the fluid state of the effused blood. In a third case, the tumour may be of moderate size, firm at the circumfe- rence, and soft in the centre; plainly showing that the blood had in part coagulated, whilst a portion still remains fluid. I am not aware that any writer has attempted to account for the various degrees of consistency wliich the blood constituting these tumours exliibits: however, obse^^'a- tion has induced me to beheve, that the problem can be fairly solved on physiological principles. You are, perhaps, already aware, that human blood con-LECTURE IV. 81 sists of tliree elementary portions, which become manifest on allowing it to remain at rest for some minutes after it has been drawn from a vein: I allude to the fibrine, serum, and red globules; now, you should bear in mind that the power of self-coagulation, with which the blood is endowed, belongs exclusively to the fibrine. This being the case, it follows, as a matter of course, that the amount and perfection of the coagulum must, in aU cases of extra- vasation, be determined by the relative portion of fibrine which exists in any given quantity of blood. The blood of the human foetus contains httle or no fibrine; during in- fancy and cliildhood, the quantity is comparatively small, and it is only in full-grown persons of good constitution, that the fibrine exists in its perfect state : you must not, therefore, expect to find it, except in a comparatively small quantity in old age, and in persons of a dehcate constitu- tion. Such being the case, you should not be surprised if you find a bloody tumour on the head of a cliild, extensive and soft; and one from a similar cause, in a healthy young man, circumscribed and firm; whilst in a person of lax fibre and delicate constitution, it will probably possess the mixed characters I have already described, when speaking of tlie third form of this affection. Tliis last species of bloody tumour is hable to be mistaken for a depressed fracture of the skuU; the more especially, if it should be attended with such general symptoms as indicate injury of the brain. The symptoms wliich a bloody tumour may have in common with a depressed fracture, are, the yielchng spot in the centre of the tumour, whilst it is curcumscribed by a firm margin. In order to asceri;ain, as far as possible, the precise nature of a doubtful case, the surgeon should pass his finaer for some E 2 J. ^ .CLINICAL SURGERY. 82 distance over the surface of the tumid part; and if it were merely an extravasation of blood, the finger would, in the first instance, rise over the elevated margin of the swelling, and then sink into the httle well in the centre. If strong pressui-e be now made with the finger, the bone may be felt beneath, and no convulsive twitchings of the muscles or other symptoms indicative of compression of the brain ex- cited ; whereas, if the case were a depressed fracture only, the finger would not rise above the natural level of the scalp, previous to its sinking, into the cavity caused by the depressed state of the bone. In the latter case, pressure with the finger, would, in all probability, produce symptoms of compression, or increase those wliich may have previously existed. However, it must be admitted, that these diag- nostic marks, do not always prove satisfactory; indeed, in many cases attended with severe symptoms of cerebral injury, the best informed practitioners mil not, when first called on, be able to declare with certainty, the precise nature of the case. As a general rule, bloody tumoui-s of the scalp, unattended by injury of the brain or its mem- branes, are not serious cases, although sometunes slow m disappearing. I have remarked, that when the extravasated blood assumes a soHd form soon after the accident, it wiU be quickly absorbed; whereas, in cases where the blood re- mains fluid, its removal will not be affected for several days; or it may, perhaps, ultimately become necessary for the surgeon to open the tumoui-. Tliis is a practice, however, wliich should not be adopted hastily, inasmuch as a very bad description of inflammation often supervenes when bloody tumoui-s are prematurely opened; hence it is, that nothing but the urgency of the symptoms would justify a83 LECTURE IV. surgeon in cutting into tliem when first called on, even if he suspected the existence of a fracture. I will advert to this point at a future period, when considering the sub- ject of compression of the brain; on the present occasion, I wish to confine your attention to such injuries of the scalj) as may be unattended with any symptoms indicative of internal misclaief. The treatment of bloody tumours of the scalp is very simple; it should consist in the constant apphcation of cold evaporating lotions to the part affected; at the same time due attention should be paid to the state of the patient's constitution. To fulfil the first indication, a lotion composed of half an ounce of muriate of ammonia dissolved in four ounces of distilled vinegar, and ten or twelve ounces of distilled water, will answer very well in recent cases; but in the event of the skin becoming inflamed, an acetate of lead lotion would be preferable to the one I have mentioned. A bladder partially filled with pounded ice or snow, when at hand, laid on the part would be a comfortable and effica- cious way of applying cold. Although the utdity of cold apphcations, in dispersing the great majority of tumours caused by extravasated blood, is generally admitted, yet, its modus operandi is by no means easy of explanation. It would be absurd to suppose it could chemically exert any influence on the effused blood itself, so long as the integu- ments which cover it, retain then vitahty. We must, there- fore, attribute the beneflcial effects resulting from its appli- cation to some salutary action produced in the living textures around, wliich is conducive to absorption. A smart contu- sion of the scalp is usually productive of inflammation; indeed, in some instances the inflammatory action thusCLINICAL SUHGEllY. 84 excited is not confined to the part which immediately re- ceived the blow; but will become established witliin the skuH, the contents of wliich must have suffered in some degree from the shock caused by the accident. Our know^- ledge of tliis cu'cumstance, at once suggests the necessity of putting the patient on spare diet, and prescribing purgative medicines. Should tliis plan of treatment not succeed in dispersing the tiunour, in the course of ten or twelve days; it may then be opened, and its fluid contents gently pressed out. The wound should be immediately closed and the walls of the cavity kept in contact with each other, by means of compress and bandage for three or four days; by wliich time, the adhesive inflammation may effect its obhteration. Should the efforts of the surgeon, fail to accomphsh this object, the worst tiling that could happen would be the formation of an ulcer which might be cured in a few days by simple treatment. Gentlemen, I have akeady told you that the scalp is Hable to wounds of every description; now, I wish you to understand that simple incised wounds, taken in the strictest sense of the term, are hardly ever to be met with in tliis locality, for the following reasons;—Por instance, if a wound of the scalp were inflicted by a direct stroke of the edge of a heavy sword, it would not represent a perfect specimen of a simple incised wound, inasmuch as the divided parts must be more or less contused between the edge of the wounding instrument and the skuU. However, you are not to suppose that I attach much importance to tliis circum- stance, or that it ought to lead to any difference in the mode of treatment usually adopted in cases of sunple incised wounds in other situations. The spnptoms of incised i85 LECTURE IV. womids of the scalp will be modified by their depths and the direction in which they run. Tor example^ let ns suppose a case, in which a wound, three or four inches long extending from before backwards was inflicted, and inquire what symp- toms would be most remarkable ? Hemorrhage would be the most conspicuous symptom in sucli a case, for the fol- lowing reason: the great majority of the blood-vessels of the scalp run in a transverse direction; consequently their habihty to be divided by a longitudinal wound is very great; indeed, a wound four inches long must divide some of them. In the case of a transverse wound of the scalp, the blood-vessels have a better chance of escaping, wlulst its hps will be drawn widely asunder by the antagonising efforts of the occipito-frontaHs muscle. When a surgeon is called to a wound of the scalp, his first duty is to have the hair shaved off for a considerable distance around it: this will facihtate liis future steps in the manage- ment of the case. Sutures and hgatures should be avoided as much as possible, in cases of wounds of the scalp; inas- much as they are calculated to prevent union by the first intention, by exciting erysipelatous inflammation. Should the bleeding happen to be profuse, the inference is, that some important artery has been partially divided. In such a case the surgeon ought, at once complete its division; this being the most expeditious method of putting a stop to the hemorrhage. The effused blood having been removed by a sponge; the lips of the wound should be drawn together, and retamed in contact by sticking plaster, compress and bandage. The constitutional, or general treatment ought to be the same as what I recommended when speaking of bloody tumours. The first dressings should not be removed86 CLINICAL SURGERY. sooner than the tliird or fourth day after their application; by wliich time, union by the first intention may have taken place. In cases of simple incised flap-wounds of the scalp, the flap should be restored to its original position, and then treated exactly in the way I have described. Lacerated, like simple incised wounds of the scalp, are met with in two forms: in one case the parts are merely torn asunder, but not separated from the pericranium; in the other, you will have the scalp detached fonning a flap. Cases of tins kind are generally comphcated by the presence of foreign bodies; such as gravel, &c. which have been forced into the injured parts. In treating these cases you should, in the first instance, try to remove the particles of dirt with a sponge and warm water; this is by no means easy of accomphshment, for they often adhere l^with great tenacity to the surface of the wound. You need not be over sohcitous about the removal of every particle of these foreign bodies, as they will in the course of a few days come away in the discharge. In a case of lacerated flap-wouiid, the head having been shaved, and the wound washed, the flap should be replaced and kept in tliis position, by sticking plaster, compress, and bandage; none of which should be tightly apphed. Although there wiU be httle prospect of union by the first intention in such a case, yet, it may par- tially take place, and the patient should get the benefit of the chance. In the event of an abscess fonning beneath the flap, as often happens, the matter should be discharged by a timely incision, and a Hght poultice placed over the wound; the poultice ought to be changed at least twice a day, and repeated, until aU sloughs, and particles of dirt have come away; the cure may be completed by means of simple87 LECTURE IV. dressing and astringent lotions. Whilst the local treatment I have just mentioned, is being put in force, the state of the constitution must not be lost sight of. The antiplilogistic treatment should be put in force from the commencement^ and rigidly persevered in until all inflammatory symptoms shall have passed away. At this period^ a generous diet may be allowed, and tonics administered with advantage. It was formerly the practice in case of flap-wounds of the scalp, attended with laceration and contusion, to dress them for some days after their infliction, by introducing pieces of lint or "'holland'''' spread on hotli sides, with simple ointment, between the flap and the surface from which it had been detached. This dressing was renewed daily, and continued until all sloughs and foreign bodies had come away, and granulations became estabUshed, both on the sur- face of the flap, and that of the pericranium. These two gran- ular surfaces were now allowed to come in contact j the dress- ings being applied externally, until the cure was completed. The objections to this method of treatment are tln-ee-fold. In the first place, by the introduction of the dressing into the wound, the patient was deprived of the chance of union by the fii'st intention in any part of it; secondly, by keeping the flap apart it contracted, and became unnaturally thick; and consequently, did not accurately fit the surface from which it had been detached; and thirdly, the cure was rendered more tedious than it ought to be, and was attend- ed with permanent deformity. Injuries of the scalp so often become comphcated by an attack of erysipelas that I feel I cannot advantageously proceed with their further consideration, until I shaU have made some general obser- vations on this disease.88 CLINICAL SURGERY. Erysipelas usually appears in the form of an inflamma- tion of the skin or sub-cutaneous cellular membrane, or both these textm-es may be involved at the same time, as is the case in the plilegmonoid form of the disease; however, it would be taking a very limited, and in my opinion, a very erroneous view of the subject, if we were to suppose that these structures only, were liable to erysipelatous inflamma- tion. I have known the worst forms of the disease to com- mence in the mucous membrane of the pharynx, and extend from thence to the integuments of the face and head, and finally terminate in the death of the patient, having pre- viously attacked the brain and its membranes. Erj^sipelas is subject to metastasis, or sudden changes from one struc- tm-e to another, leaving all intervening parts untouched, and but slight traces of its effects in the place originally engaged. Eor instance, a man may get an attack of erysipelas in the integuments of the leg, tliigh, or abdomen, wliich at the end of tliree or four days will suddenly disappear, the patient being at the same time seized by peritonitis. We sometimes find erysipelas extending progressively from place to place, by continuity of structure; you have had lately an opportunity of observing tliis form of the disease in the girl Lacy. She was first attacked with the usual symptoms of the disease behind the left ear, from thence it extended across the cliin to the opposite side of the face, forehead, all over the scalp, down the back of the neck, between the shoulders, here it spread in a lateral direction so as to include the axillary glands; it ultimately proceeded down the lumbar region and terminated its course in the skin of the nates. Different forms of erysipelas have been described by89 ERYSIPELAS. systematic writers, but it is not the province of a clinical lectui-er to give a detailed account of all its varieties, more especially when incidentally introduced, as on the present occasion. Erysipelas wiU sometimes make its appearance without our being able to assign any cause, whilst in other instances we can fairly attribute its origin to local irritation; the patient having been predisposed to morbid action, either from a pecuhar state of the constitution or other circumstances. The records of medicine and surgery furnish abundant proofs that erysipelas maybe of endemic or epidemic origin; and that ua some rare instances, it can be fairly traced to contagion, is a fact winch must be admitted. The local symptoms of erysipelas mtU not be precisely alike in all cases, the difference being determined by the degree of inflammation and the textures uivolved. When the cutis vera is the structure chiefly afl'ected, the part will present a red appearance, varying in shade of colour in different cases, and even in different stages of the same case, but always terminating abruptly at the circumference. The patient will complain of heat, and a smart prielding pain; but the sweUing wiU be inconsiderable. Should the skin be inflamed throughout its entire thickness, and the degree of inflammation be liigher than what I have described, you will, in addition to the symptoms I have mentioned, have an cedematous state of the part, and straw-coloured vesicles on the surface; these symptoms being the effects of the over distended state of the vessels of the skin. Should the inflammation, in the first instance, attack the sub-cutaneous cellular membrane, the swelUng wiU be tense and unpeld- ing, the skin smooth and glossy, the pain will be attended with a feehng of constriction and tlu:obbing. The swelling90 CLINICAL SURGERY. in tliis case is not caused^ merely by the distended state of the vessels, and an effusion of serum; for you have likewise a deposition of lymph in the sub-cutaneous cellular mem- brane. In the event of tliis case proceeding from bad to worse, the following changes will take place in the symp- toms :—^the sweUiug will become softer, and the pain con- siderably diminished in the part which was first attacked; but the disease may continue to extend itself into the sur- rounding stractures, wliich were not originally engaged. These symptoms plainly indicate that suppuration, and probably mortification, have taken place in the sub-cutaneous cellular tissue. If this case be left to natui-e, in the course of time the skin wiU become perforated by ulcerative ab- sorption, and the morbid products beneath, consisting of pus and dead cellular membrane, permitted to escape. It occasionally happens that the sweUing is caused almost en- tirely, by the effusion of serum into the sub-cutaneous cellular membrane; in this case, the skin is not much engaged, tlie affected part is soft and oedematous, and the pain trifling. I have now described four varieties of the disease, all of which admit of an easy explanation, and might be fairly designated by the following terms.—The first I would call the smple cutaneous erysipelas; the second, the vesicular; the tliird, the phlegmonoid, and the foui-th the (edematous. This classification does not materially differ from the one given by Mr. Lawrence of London, whose opinions and ob- servations on this subject deserve your attention. That the constitutional symptoms attendant upon the different forms of the disease should vary considerably, is only what might reasonably be expected. Having premised these general observations, with a view of giving the junior portion ofERYSIPELAS OF THE HEAD AND FACE. 91 my auditors some idea of the various forms in wliich erysi- pelas may affect the iateguments, no matter where situated, I will now suppose a case in which it is confined to the head and face. Erysipelas of the head and face should always be looked upon as a very serious, and in many instances a dangerous complaint; judging from observation and personal ex- perience, I am of opinion that idiopathic erysipelas of the head and face is more dangerous than the traumatic form of the disease. The reason why, I cannot explain in a satis- factory manner; yet, I think a Httle reflection will tlirow some light on the subject. If a man should receive a wound of the scalp, the probabiHty is, that he would at once have recourse to surgical assistance j we are, therefore, to suppose that he has been properly treated, both locally and constitutionally, for two or three days before erysipelas made its appearance. I am inclined to attribute the comparative mildness of this case, to the salutary state of the patient^s constitution at the time he was attacked by the disease. Idiopathic erysipelas of the head and face is considered a disease of constitutional origin; this being'the case, it be- comes insidiously estabhshed wlulst the patient's general state of health is favourable to its development, in its worst form. The local symptoms of idiopatliic erysipelas are always preceded by constitutional derangement of a febrile character, such as chilliness, sickness of stomach, loss of appetite, bitter taste in the mouth, foul tongue, head-ache, quick pulse, di- minished secretions, thirst and constipation. After the lapse of two or three days the local symptoms will begin to appear. At first a red blotch on the forehead or cheek, wiU make its appearance; the patient wiU complain of uneasiness and a92 CLINICAL SURGERY. smarting pain in the part affected; the redness and swelling will now extend to the surrounding parts ; the eyehds become very much swoUen, the alse nasi and ears likcMise become engaged; the disease may now cross over the entu-e scalp, or even extend to other parts in the manner you have \ntnessed in Lac/s case. In two or three days after the erythematous blush first appeared, amber coloured vesicles usually form on the surface • in bad cases matter may form in the eyehds or belaind the ears. All tliis tune the consti- tutional symptoms continue without remission, or mitigation, and if the case should end fatally, they will become worse in degree of severity. The patient wiU now speak incoherently, the tongue becomes brown, dry, and rough, the articula- tion imperfect, the pulse feeble and m-egular, and he usually dies comatose, or in a convulsive fit. By an examination after death the following appearances will, in all probabihty, be discovered in the parts affected. The scalp very vascular with sero-purulent infiltrations, or diffused abscesses and perhaps sloughy cellular membrane in different parts of it: the skull, dura-mater, pia-mater and brain itself preternaturally vascular: the arachnoid membrane somewhat opaque, and the ventricles of the brain filled with serum. Gentlemen, the post mortem appearances which I have de- scribed may not exist iu all cases, and you are not, there- fore, to suppose that functional derangement of the brain necessarily imphes structural lesion of this organ, even in every fatal case of erysipelas of the head. The late ]\Ir. CoLLES used to state in liis lectui-es, that he never could dis- cover any morbid appearance within the skulls of persons wdio died of erysipelas of the scalp: he, therefore, looked upon the symptoms of cerebral derangement which existedERYSIPELAS OF THE HEAD AND FACE. 93 during life, as being altogether sympathetically produced by the disease of the scalp. Wliether tliis gentleman changed his opinion or not previous to liis death I am unable to state; but this much, I respectfully assert, that judging from my own experience, liis original views were more ap- phcable to the exceptions than to the general rule. As I have already stated, it is not my duty here as a chnical lecturer, to enter into a formal dissertation on a disease wliicli has been incidentally brought under my notice ; I will not, therefore, delay you with a lengthened description of the treatment which ought to be employed in its various forms, but will now return to the special consid- eration of traumatic erysipelas of the scalp. Any species of wound of the scalp may cause erysipelas, but lacerated, and punctured are those which usually do so. There are two species of traumatic erysipelas of the scalp, viz : the superficial, and the deep-seated; it is a matter of much practical importance to keep this in mind. Lacerated wounds usually give rise, to the former, wliilst punctured womids produce the second fonn of the disease. The time wliich may elapse after the infliction of the wound, before the disease appears will vary in different cases ; it may come on in tliirty-six hours, or in any time previous to the lieahng of the wound; but it most frequently occurs on the third or fourth day. When the superficial form of the disease commences, the lips of the wound become dry and tumid, and the local symptoms, which I have already described, when speaking of idiopatliic erysipelas, gradually estabhsh themselves over the head and face. The symptomatic form will vary in type in different cases : in some instances it will run liigh, and partake of the sthenic character;94 CLINICAL SURGERY. whilst in otliers the digestive organs will exhibit much derangement. The second species of traumatic erysipelas of the scalp, differs in many respects from the one I have described: it is in almost every instance the efCect of a punctured wound, which involved the tendon of the occipito-frontahs muscle, and the subjacent ceUular tissue. The inflammation com- mences in these textures, and subsequently, extends to aU others in the neighbourhood. The swelling, in the first in- stance, is circumscribed and not very painful, but if left to itseK, it wiU quickly spread, become veiy tense and painful. In some cases the swelling will extend from the forehead, to the transverse ridge of the occipital bone, showing plainly that the chief cause of it, is situated beneath the occipito- frontaUs muscle; the attachments of which often define its circumference. The eyelids and ears are not usually included in this form of the disease; however, you are not to sup- pose that these parts always escape; I have seen cases of tliis description when they became involved at an advanced period of the disease. In the deep-seated or phlegmonoid erysipelas of the scalp, the local symptoms usually precede, and appear to be the exciting cause of the constitutional disturbance. You should bear this in mind as it ought to influence you in the line of treatment you would adopt in such cases. When called on to treat a case of traumatic erysipelas of the scalp, your first object should be to ascertain the precise character of the disease; should the wound be large, the swelling soft, the ears and eyehds included, and the accom- panying fever indicative of gastro-hepatic derangement, you may conclude that it is the superficial form of the disease95 ERYSIPELAS OF THE HEAD AND FACE. you have to deal with; if, on the other hand, the wound be small, the swelling circumscribed, firm and very painful on pressure, and the symptomatic fever of the sthenic type; you may rest satisfied that the case is of the phlegmonoid cha- racter. In the first case, if the patient had not been purged before you saw him, you should commence the treatment, by ordering him a couple of cathartic pdls, composed, say of four grains of cathartic extract, three of calomel, two of James' powder, and one of capsicum. In an hour or two after the pills have been taken, the patient may take two table spoonsful of a mixture, composed of one ounce of sulphate of magnesia, dissolved in six or eight ounces of infusion of roses, every second hour " ad alvi solutionem." A hght poultice should be apphed over the wound the next day; the medicine previously ordered, having produced, "the desired effect," you may with advantage to the patient, prescribe a mixture composed of two grains of tartarized antimony, dissolved in seven ounces of water and half an ounce of syrup of saffron: one table spoonful to be taken every hour; or two every second or tliird hour, according to its effects. Tartar-emetic has been for many years past a favourite medicine, with most practitioners in the treatment of erysi- pelas : the justly celebrated French surgeon, Dessault, thought it possessed some specific influence over the disease, which would not admit of explanation. He was led to adopt this opinion from having observed some patients get well under its use, although it did not perceptibly affect the stomach, bowels, skin or kidneys. For my own part, although I -willingly admit the value of tartar-emetic in certain cases, and during certain stages of erysipelas, whenCLINICAL SURGERY. 96 judiciously administered; yet, I am far from tliinking that it is entitled to tlie dignified appellation of specific. 1 believe its usefulness mainly depends on tlie various effects wliicli it is capable of simultaneously producing on the human body. Por instance, by exciting nausea, it sympa- thetically acts as a sedative on the heart, wMst at the same time, the skin, and mucous membrane of the alimentary canal, pour out their respective secretions. Tims, then, there is every reason to suppose that its efficacy depends, on its varied powers as an antiplilogistic remedy. Taking tins view of its "modus operandi," it is obvious, that the greatest caution should be observed during its administra- tion, and that it is only dm-ing the early stages of the dis- ease, and when the sympathetic fever runs high, it can prove useful. If the fever should assume a low type, characterised by debihty; tartar emetic should be laid aside altogether, and stimulants such as camphor, and carbonate of ammonia given internally; whilst a blister apphed between the shoul- ders, and sinapisms to the soles of the feet may be of service. In cases of this description attended mth severe sj-mptoms of cerebral derangement, mercmy should be ad- ministered fi-eely, both internally and extemally, ^ith a \aew to afi'ect the system as soon as possible. Wixtw I say ex- ternally, I don't mean that mercmial ointment should be apphed to the inflamed skin only, as recommended by some practitioners, but that it should likemse be rubbed in, on the tliighs and arms, until sahvation shall be produced. I have knowTi two cases of idiopatliic erysipelas of the head and face, where the patients lay in a comatose state for two or three days, when to my surprise and gratification, an ini-97 ERYSIPELAS OF THE HEAD AND FACE. provement took place in the symptoms as soon as the mer- cury began to produce its specific effects. It is right that I should mention^ that stimulants were given in these cases, as long as the patients were able to swaUow, and that bhs- ters were applied between the shoulders, and to the calves of the legs; and sinapisms to the soles of the feet, wliich might, perhaps, have been of some service; but it is to the mer- curial treatment I attribute the recovery of the patients. In the great majority of cases of the superficial erysipelas of the scalp, the symptoms will become milder in the course of eight or ten days, but you cannot count on this as a matter of certainty, inasmuch as the disease may assiune the erratic form. When it does take a favourable tin:n, the tumid state of the parts subsides; the wound granulates and suppurates kindly ; the cuticle desquamates; the patient can now open his eyes, and a corresponding im- provement in the constitutional symptoms indicate a speedy recovery. In the plilegmonoid erysipelas of the scalp, you should, in the fiirst instance, try the effect of fomentations, and poultices frequently repeated during the day; saline purga- tives should likewise be administered; but if this treatment should not make a favourable impression on the symptoms in thirty-six hours, you should make a free incision through the swoUen part, and of sufiicient depth to divide the ten- don of the occipito-frontahs muscle. The incision ought to be made in the transverse direction; the object being to reUeve tension by enabUng the antagonising portions of the muscle to separate the hps of the wound. You should view a case of this kmd, in the same hght, and treat it on the same principle, you would one of deep-seated pa-98 CLINICAL SURGERY. rouychia. If such a case be not promptly treated in the maimer I have mentioned, and that an abscess be allowed to form under the tendinous expansion, and to remain un- opened, the bones of the skull will become diseased, and even the dura-mater itself. I have known two cases of this description which ended fatally. After the parts have been freely divided, a poultice should be apphed as before, and repeated twice a day until the inflammatory symptoms com- pletely subside, and suppuration is fully estabhshed. The wound Mill now heal under ordinary treatment. A CASE OF SIMPLE IDIOPATHIC ERYSIPELAS OP THE HEAD AND PACE. Novemher 16Patrick Fegau was tliis day admitted into the hospital being affected Mith erysipelas of head and face. Tlie left side of the face, includuig the ala nasi and thehds of the left eye, is swollen and red; there is likewise tumefaction and a shght degree of redness of the scalp; the left ear is also affected and a few vesicles on it. He states that the pain of the face is severe and of a stinging character, whilst the scalp is merely sore and tender to the touch; the bowels natural, tongue furred, stomach mclined to sickness, pulse full; eighty. He states that the attack commenced five or six days previous to liis admission, with a shivering, pain in the head, and sickness of stomach; and that on the next day he observed the swellmg and red- ness beginning on liis face. His bowels haNdng been freed previous to admission, he was ordered the foUowing mix- ture :— B Antmionii Tartarizati - gr. h. Aqufc DistiUatee - - Sviiss. SyrupiCroci - - 5ss. m. Sumat cochleare araplum secunda quaque hora.99 ERYSIPELAS OF THE HEAD AND FACE. 17;!-^ .—The medicine acted as a diaplioretic; tliere is not much alteration in the sjniiptoms; the swelling, redness, and pain are, however, extending to the right side of the face. \%th.—Slept a little last night: the pain has left the side of the face wliich was originally affected, and he at present complams of the back of the neck and head. On looking closely to the back of the neck, a well defined red blotch is visible; the scalp is also affected throughout, and the shghtest touch increases the pain in these parts. Re2oe- tatur mistwa. IWi..—Slept well last night; appears much better, the tumefaction and redness have decreased very much; he can now open the left eye. 21*^.—Has continued improving ever since last report; the swelhng, redness and pain have vanished: the cuticle is desquamating, the secretions and pulse natural, and the appetite returned. He was ordered beef tea, and told that he might leave the hospital as soon as he felt himself able to do so. A CASE OF TRAUMATIC ERYSIPELAS OF THE HEAD AND FACE. January \Wi.—Jeremiah Eogan, aged sixty years, of temperate habits and sound constitution, was admitted into the hospital this day, a cow having knocked him down in the street j his head was seriously injured. On admission a contused wound was observed behind the left ear, affectina: a portion of the scalp; he complained much of stiffness in the neck which prevented him from turning in the bed. For some days after admission the wound was treated with100 CLINICAL SURGERY. poultices, purgative medicines were prescribed, and he was kept on low diet. On the morning of the 21st, at visiting hour, he complained of lassitude, spoke incoherently; the tongue was coated, and rather dry in the centre, but moist at the edges; the skin hot, and the pulse quick; on close inspection an erysipelatous blush was found diffused gene- rally over the region of the injury and forehead, attended with an cedematons swelling. He was ordered to take two table-spoonsful of the usual antimonial mixture, every tliird hour, and to have the surface of the inflamed part, smeared mth mercurial ointment. <i^rd.—Slept badly during the night; complains much of sickness of stomach, and also of his bowels having been too much affected; pulse very weak and compressible, skin hot and dry, face more swollen, and eyes closed, the tongue is more thicldy coated than before. Ordered six oimces of camphor mixture, with two drachms of aromatic spirits of ammonia, and an ounce of syrup: two table-spoonsful to be taken every second hour, and a pint of beef-tea during the day. 'i.Uh.—Slept some durmg the night; does not complain of the pain in the head, tongue rather cleaner, irritabihty of the stomach much less, iDulse improved in strength, the swelling of the scalp and face has subsided considerably; he can open his eyes, and the cuticle is begmning to des- quamate. The imxture and beef-tea to be continued, and the mercurial ointment omitted. 26^:/;.—The erysipelatous swelhng and redness have nearly disappeared; Ms general health continues to improve, his gums are affected by the mercurial ointment. 28^/^.—The mercurial action is very great, salivation pro-ERYSIPELAS OF THE HEAD AND FACE. 101 fuse, aud a good deal of general debility. He was ordered the folloAving gargle, and nutritious diet:— R Liquoris Cliloridis Calcis - 3iii. Aquee Purse - - - ovi. Acidi Muriatici - - gtt. vi. SjTupi Simplicis - - oi. m. ft. gargarismus ssepe in die u.tendus. 20t/t.—The sahvation has nearly ceased; the gums are less swollen and tender, his appetite good. Discharged. Remarks.—There was nothing in Eegan^s case of par- ticular interest; however, it was a good specimen of the mild form of idiopathic erysipelas of the head and face, which did not affect the brain in any respect. No urgent symptom having arisen during its progress, I did not deem it necessary to have recourse to any medicme, beyond the antimonial mixture which answered all necessary piu- poses. As to local applications, I never employ them in mild cases of idiopatliic erysipelas of the scalp, fearing tliat they might do miscliief by causing a metastasis to the parts within the skull. There were some points worthy of notice in the case of Eogan. Tor instance, he was not attacked Matli erysipelas for ten days after the infliction of the wound; tliis is un- usual, although not unprecedented. Again, the antimonial mixture, wliich proved so useful in the former case, could not be persevered in with this, in consequence of the irrita- ble state of the stomach and bowels, and the debilitated state of the patient; it was, therefore, laid aside aud stimulants substituted. Symptoms of cerebral derange- ment having set in early, it was deemed expedient to have recourse to the mercurial ointment, and the rapidity \\'ith102 CLINICAL SURGERY. wliich it was absorbed from the inflamed surface is some- what remarkable. In both cases the disease ran through all its stages in about ten days after the appearance of the first symptoms.CHAPTER Y. LECTUEE V. General ohservations on the functions of the hrain.—The effects of a defective, or an excessive supply of Hood—The Pathology of Syncope, and Apoplexy.—The had consecpiences produced on the hrain hy external injuries, viz.—Conctission, Compression, and Inflammation.—Mr. Ahernethy's opinions on Concussion and Compression.—Ohjections to Mr. Ahernethy's doctrine.—The impossibility of forming a correct diagnosis between Conctission, and Compression hy an abstract consideration of Symptoms only.—Mixed cases and their treatment.—Division of such inflammations of the hrain and its membranes as result from external violence into Primary and Secondary.—The Symptoms, Pathology, and Treatment of each.—Mr. Potfs opinions not confirmed by the experience of others.—Cases with Comments. Gentlemen, The subject of this da/s lecture is the bad effects wliich may result to the brain and its membranes, from severe injuries appKed externally. It is not necessary that I should occupy much of your time with prefatory remarks, iu order to impress upon you the great importance of the topic we are about to consider; I will, therefore, make but a few general observations, with a view to enable the junior por- tion of my hearers, to comprehend the bad consequences which may result from injuries of the brain to parts situated at a distance from the immediate seat of violence.104 CLINICAL SURGERY. It is impossible for a person igiiorant of the functions of any important organ in the human body^ as naturally carried onj to be able to judge of them when morbidly affected, or to set them right when out of order. Tliis fact being an established maxim, both in physic and sui'gery, you must at once perceive the necessity, when studying injuries of the brain, of keeping constantly in mind the functions per- formed by it, in its natural state. The brain has three grand functions to perform, viz.—it receives through the organs of sense, all impressions from without, and is there- fore, the seat of sensation; it is also the source of the intellectual faculties, and the centre of voluntary motion. Such being the functions which the brain in its healthy state performs, it follows as a matter of course, that when it sustains a serious injury, we should look out for the effects in the derangement of some or all the functions over winch it presides. Eor instance, it is not wonderful that if the part of the brain, with which the optic nerve is con- nected were severely injured, that partial or complete blind- ness should ensue : again, when that portion of the brain, in wlaich the intellectual faculties originate, is the seat of the injury, you are to expect either partial derangement or total destruction of these faculties, proportioned to the amount of injury inflicted : in hke manner you are to ex- pect convulsions or paralysis of the voluntary muscles, if the portion of the brain with wliich the nerves of motion are connected, happens to be the part affected. Amongst the numerous phenomena, the simultaneous concurrence of wliich is essential to the well-being of the brain, and the perfect execution of its functions, there is none, perhaps, so remarkable both in a physiological and a prac-105 LECTURE T. tical point of view, as a due supply of blood; yes, I repeat it " a due supply" and no more, or no less. When the supply is deficient, as in cases of liemorrhage, the functions of the brain become almost completely suspended, and sjTicope is the consequence. If you closely observe a person previous to, or dm-ing a profound fainting fit, the following appearances must forcibly strike you. The patient will at first become weak; the lips and countenance pale; the forehead cold and bedewed with perspiration ; the eyes dull and languid; he then falls down perfectly uncon- scious of aU surrounding objects. If the pulse be now felt, it win be found to beat slowly and feebly; respiration is also slow, and carried on with the utmost calmness. This state of things having continued for a few minutes, the colour retm-ns to the cheeks and hps; the patient sighs, opens Ins eyes, and looks rather vacantly around; the pulse and respiration gradually return to their natural state, and the skin becomes warm. The first state of the patient, was the result of a deficient supply of arterial blood, in consequence of wliich aU the cerebral fmictions became more or less suspended for the time being; but, when the patient assumed a position favourable to its free return to the head, the brain became, as it were, resuscitated and enabled to per- form its wonted functions. "Wlien there is an excessive supply of blood in the brain, as in cases of apoplexy, you wS\ have loss of sense and voluntary motion, as in the former instance; but in other res- respects, the state of the patient -will differ materially from that I have described. For instance, the face will be flushed and swollen; the eyes suffused; respiration stertorous; the pulse may be fuU and labouring; or it may be irregular106 CLINICAL SURGERY. and intermitting: the state of the pupils will vary in different cases: in one, you will find them dilated and fixed; in a second contracted; and in a third, perhaps the pupil of one eye will be dilated, and that of the other contracted. "When blood, which may be considered a natural inhabi- tant, although not a fixed resident of the cranium, is capa- ble of producing, and modifying symptoms in parts situated at a distance; you must expect results of a very variable character from the different forms of accident and disease to which the brain is liable : hence, the great difficulty of arriving at a satisfactory conclusion as to the precise nature of the case, by reasoning from symptoms only. I will not delay you longer with prefatory observations, but proceed by asking what are the bad efi'ects which may be produced in the brain by external violence ? They are three in num- ber, viz.—concussion, compression, and injiammatmi. By concussion of the brain is meant a shake, or shock wliich may partially or completely, for a time, or forever destroy its functions, without necessarily producing any visible lesion of structure. It is quite obvious, then, that the symptoms of concussion must vary in degree of severity, in number, and in duration in different cases, from a sHght momentary shock, to the complete extinction of life. Sometimes they will resemble those of syncope; there being loss of sense, speech, and voluntary motion, attended with pahdity of countenance and cold extremities; whilst iu other instances apoplectic symptoms will be present: the state of the pulse, respiration, and pupils AviU vary ia different cases. The late Mr. Abernethy undertook to classify the smp- toms of concussion : he imagined that he could tell from the symptoms only, whether a patient was affected with con-LECTURE V. 107 cussion or compression of the brain. Some years since, much importance was attached to the opinions of tliis truly eminent surgeon, and as it may be expected by some of the examiners before whom you shall hereafter appear, that you should know this gentleman's opinions on this subject, i will briefly state them. Mr. Abeenethy divided the symptoms which characterize the worst possible case of concussion consistent with life, into tln*ee stages. "The first is that state of insensibility and derangement of the bodily powers which immediately succeed to the acci- dent. Wliilst it lasts the patient scarcely feels any injury that may be inflicted on him. His breatliing is difficult, but generally without stertor; his pulse intermitting, and his extremities cold. But such a state cannot last long; it goes off gradually, and is succeeded by another, which I consider as the second stage of concussion. In this the pulse and respiration become better, and though not regu- larly performed, are sufficient to maintain hfe, and to diffuse warmth over the extreme parts of the body. The feeling of the patient is now so far restored, that he is sensible if his skin be pinched; but he hes stupid, and inattentive to shght external impressions. As the effects of concussion diminish, he becomes capable of replying to questions put to him in a loud tone of voice, especially when they refer to his cliief suffering at the time, as pain in the head, &c.; otherwise, he answers incoherently, as if his attention could not be excited, or was occupied by sometliing else; he is in short like a man in a heavy sleep. The concussion of the brain, lastly, produces a state of inflammation of the organ, and this constitutes the tldrd stage, wliich is the most important of the series of effects produced from this cause.CLINICAL SURGERY. 108 " Tliese several stages vary considerably in tlieir degree and diu-ation; but more or less of each will be found to take place in every instance where tbe brain has been violently shaken. Wliether they bear any certain propor- tion to each other or not^ I do not know. Indeed tliis ViiW depend upon such a variety of circumstances in the consti- tution, the injury, and the after-treatment that it must be dif&cult to determine." Such is Mr. Abernethy^s descrip- tion of the stages and symptoms which characteiize every bad case of concussion. In a subsequent page (92) IMr. Abernethy undertakes to point out to his readers, how to distinguish by symptoms, between concussion and com- jDression. " It has (continues Mr. Abeunethy) hitherto been con- sidered as a desirable object, to point out any marks by which we might distinguish between compression and con- cussion of the brain; but I beheve no such criteria have yet been communicated to the pubhc. If we judge of the symptoms of compression from what occurs in cases of apoplexy, or from cases Hke those which have been related of the rupture of the middle artery of the dura-mater, we must, I think, be of opinion, that pressm-e on the brain occasions insensibihty, partially, or generally, and in a de- gTee proportionate to its quantity. In extreme cases, such as I have cited, the insensibihty is manifested by every cir- cumstance. The pupil of the eye is dilated and cannot be made to contract, even by a strong hght. The respiration is slow and stertorous, and the pulse proportionably slow and labouring. There is no vomiting, which Avould mdicate sensibility of the stomach. The hmbs ai'e relaxed as in a person just dead. No struggles take place, no signs of109 LECTURE V. sensation appear dui'ing tlie operation ; but on the pressure being removed, sensation and intelligence are immediately restored. In concussion, the insensible stage is of short dm-ation, and dm-ing its continuance the body is generally cold, and the pulse feeble and iatermitting. Afterwards the skin is hotter than usual, the pulse and respiration more frequent; the former often intermits; and the latter has not the stertor of apoplexy. The pupil of the eye is not dilated, but rather contracted. The countenance expresses pain and uneasiness; and vomiting occasionally takes place. The state of the patient is hke that of a heavy and uncomfortable sleep; yet being roused signs of intelhgence appear/'' Such were the opinions of the late Mr. Abeenethy, as regards the symptoms of concussion and compression of the brain respectively. I have given them to you in his own words, lest I might, by mistake, misrepresent liim. You will now naturally inquire, if the experience and observations of subsequent practitioners have convinced them as to the correctness of Mr. Abernethy's opmion ?—I answer, No ! And it is a matter much to be regretted, that Mr. Aber- NETHY ever published his opinions on this subject; for, there is much reason to fear, that when a siu-geon of his eminence happens to promulgate erroneous views, that they wiU be adopted by others, and lead to bad practice. Many persons have died, whilst labouring under the symptoms wlhch Mr. Abeenethy would set down as being indicative of compression, and, on examination after death, no cause of compression, such as blood, bone, &c., could be detected mtlun the skixU: again, persons have died when suffering from Mr. Abeenethy^s symptoms of concussion, and by aCLINICAL SURGERY. 110 post-mortem examination, copious extravasations of blood, and depressed bone have been discovered; which it is but reasonable to suppose, contributed largely to, if not the sole cause, of the previous symptoms. I have repeatedly seen cases of this description, and I have no hesitation in assert- ing, that it is impossible for the most experienced surgeon, to form a correct opinion as to the precise nature, of a case of severe injury of the brain, by an abstract consideration of the symptoms only. The great majority of the cases of injury of the brain, which you shall meet in practice, \\tU be of a mixed character; the symptoms being in part caused by concussion, and in part by compression : in fact, similar symptoms may arise from either of these causes, taken sepa- rately, or acting conjointly. It is perfectly true, that we are sometimes enabled to know, from the liistory of the case, the immediate cause of existing symptoms. Suppose, for instance, a person receives a heavy blow of a blunt instrument, that he is knocked down, and remains deprived of sense and voluntary motion, but after some time, these symptoms graduaUy pass off; his intellect returns, and although he may feel some giddiness in the head, or sick- ness of stomach, he is able to walk for some distance to his home; but stiU, not feehng himself weU, he hes on the bed. Having remained some time in bed, he is obsen^ed to sleep heavily; he snores loudly, which was not perhaps his habit when in health; his friends become alarmed, and they try to rouse him; but in vain, he is quite insensible. If the eyes be examined, the pupils may be found either contracted, or dilated; be this as it may, they remain fixed and uninfluenced by the admission of hght: the pulse may be slow and full, or it may be quick, small, and inter-HI LECTURE V. mittiug. The history of this case makes it easy of compre- hension : the symptoms which were produced by the blow in the first instance; were the effects of concussion; which gradually passed off, but at the time the blow was given^ it ruptured a small blood-vessel^ within the skull, wliich did not actively pour out its contents at the time; the shock of the accident, having had the effect of enfeebling the power of the heart; but when it had passed away, and the circu- lation of the blood was restored to its former condition, the ruptured vessel bled freely, and the extravasated blood, by its gradual accumulation, produced compression of the braui. If, in a case of this kind, the patient should survive the effects of compression, inflammation of the brain or its membranes, or both, will probably ensue, not as a " fJdrd" stage of concussion, as alleged by Mr. Abeknethy, but as one of the Uree bad consequences of the original injury. The brain may suffer from concussion, although no vio- lence whatever were directly appHed to the head: I have known a man to shp from the top of a stack of corn, and rapidly come to the ground on his feet, but so great was the shock transmitted to the bram, that he instantly fell down, and remained for some time on his back in a state of msensibility. He gradually recovered, his stomach having rejected its contents ; he complained of gid- diness and confusion in his head, but in the course of an hour or two he felt quite well, and contrary to the kind remonstrance of his employer, resumed liis work, and never had afterwards a bad symptom. I have some years since, read in a Prench work, which at this moment I cannot call to mind, an account of a man who, wliile crossing a plank, feU from a considerable height into deep water on liis hips •CLINICAL SURGERY. 112 lie was immediately picked up deliiious, and continued a maniac for tlie rest of liis life. I consider tliat these cases were instances of mere concussion, but it is not from the symptoms, but from the liistory of the cases, I am warranted in drawing sucli an inference. You will be liable to be called to cases of head affections under very embarrassing circumstances, when you cannot obtain any satisfactory information relative to the preMous liistory of the case, and when you will have no e\adence of local injury to guide your judgment. Suppose, for example, that a man is found lying in the middle of a field, in a state of insensibility, with cold extremities, stertorous breatliiug, slow pulse and dilated pupHs, and no sign of injury of the scalp, what may be the cause of this state of things ? These symptoms clearly indicate serious derangement of the bram, but the precise nature of it, is by no means easy of detection. All the symptoms might be produced by exces- sive intoxication, a poisonous dose of narcotic medicine, or apoplexy, as well as by concussion or compression. Before you pronounce an ophiion as to what the natm-e of an obscure case of this kind is, you should consider weU, all the ascertainable chcumstances connected with it. You may, perhaps, by smelhng the patient^s breath, disco\-er if he had been taking sphits; and should you be able to find a bottle which contained any tlihig poisonous, this ^vill materially assist in removing the obscurity in wliich the case was involved. I will not dweU longer on this topic, but will now suppose a case of recent occurrence, where a man has received anuijury of the head, and that the symptoms I have described were present, and can be fairly attributed to it, and notliing else, what ought to be done ' You should in113 LECTURE V. the first instance, have the hair shaved off, and then carefully examine the wounded or contused scalp, in order to ascer- tain, if possible, whether a fracture exists or not. If you cannot detect a fi-acture, there is reason to suppose that the case is one of concussion only; however, it may be comph- cated with compression. For example, the inner table of the skull may be driven in, although the outer one may remaia unbroken : this sometimes happens in persons in the middle period of hfe, the inner table being more separable fi'om the outer, and more brittle at this age than in child- hood. Again, blood may have been extravasated in conse- quence of some vessel having been ruptured by the accident, and in tliis way, the case may be of a mixed character. You win naturally inquire, what ought to be done in such an embarrassing case ? Before you resolve on acting, consider well the general, or constitutional symptoms, for locally, you should attempt notliing in the first instance, beyond attend- ing to the state of the scalp itself, although ch-cumstances may ultimately render it necessary for you to do something in the way of operation, in order to give the patient a chance, however remote, for his hfe. In considering what is best to be done on general principles in such a case, you should reflect as to whether existing symptoms indicate a decrease, or an increase of the vital powers; and, when you have made up your minds on tliis point, the mode of pro- ceeding must at once become obvious. The symptoms which I have aheady mentioned, such as loss of sense and volun- tary motion, palidity of countenance, fixed pupils, coldness of the extremities, stertorous breatliing, and feeble inter- mitting pulse, indicate a depression of the vital powers ; and, any treatment, wliich would have the effect of increasing114 CLINICAL SURGERT. the present exhausted state of the system^ such as blood, letting, &c., would be extremely dangerous, and should never be employed until reaction becomes fully established. Thus then, your first object in the treatment of such a case, shovdd be to bring about reaction by mild and soothing remedies. For tliis purpose, heaters should be apphed to the extremi- ties, or to the epigastrium; and sternutatories to the nose • a turpentine enema might also be administered -nith advan. tage. The propriety of giving stimulants iutemaUy is very questionable; indeed, for my own part, I always omit them for the following reasons. In the first place, the patient being unable to swallow, if wine, brandy or ammonia, were poured down liis throaty tJiere would be danger of suffocation, from then Habihty to pass into the larynx and trachea. Secondly, when the Adtal powers are much depressed, strong stimulants are exceedingly hazardous. If we wish to rekindle the dying embers of a half-extinguished fire, we would not have recourse to the strong blasts of a large bellows for the purpose; knowing as we do, from experience, that if we did so, the effect would be fatal to the object we had in view. Is it not, therefore, fair to infer, although the smnle may be somewhat strained, that by over-stimulating the few sparks of vitahty wliicli still remain, instead of resuscitating the patient, we might ex. tinguish Hfe itself! If, on the other hand, he should sur\dve the administration of stimidants, may they not do mischief by contributing to the inflammatory action, which is sure to follow in such cases ? Let us now suppose that reaction has been fully estab- lished, and inquire what should be the surgeon's next ob- ject? Inasmuch as a high and dangerous degree of inflam-LECTURE V. 115 mation is to be expected, he should, on prophylactic principles, anticipate its occurrence and commence the antiphlogistic plan of treatment, by bleeding his patient. In performing the operation of venesection, some precaution is necessary; for, although the patient may lie in a lethargic state, still when the lancet touches him there is danger of his forcibly pulling, or pusliing his arm in such a manner as may cause serious injury to the brachial artery, or the the parts in the neighbourhood. In taking away blood in such a case you are to be guided by the effect produced on the pulse. For instance, if the pulse were slow and fuU when the blood began to flow, and that it became quicker and more natural as to volume, yon may continue the bleeding longer; but if on the contrary, the pulse should become intermitting, irregular and compressible, and the countenance pale, you should then bind up the arm imme- diately; if yon do not, the worst possible consequences wi]l foUow. The arm having been bound up, you may now order a cathartic bolus, composed of calomel and jalap; which should be placed on the dorsum of the tongue. Patients whose powers of deglutition are much impaired, can swallow a bolus much better than liquid medicine, or pills. The operation of the bolus may be assisted by a terebinthinate enema, administered in a couple of hours afterwards. In cases of this kind, yon should be particular in attending to the state of the bladder, and if necessary, draw off its contents twice or thrice in the course of the day. The case should, henceforward, be treated as one of inflam- mation of the brain, by bleeding, both locally and gene- rally, from time to tune, according to the symptoms and strength of the patient's constitution. Mercury should hke-CLINICAL SURGERY. 116 wise be administered freely^ botli internally and externally, until the system shall be brought fully under its influence. Cold should be constantly appHed to the head, bhsters to the nape of the neck, or between the shoulders; if the case be very bad, the bhstered surfaces may be dressed ^ith mercm'ial ointment. Should tliis plan of treatment prove successful, the length of time which may elapse before the patient recovers, will vary in different cases : if the scalp were not extensively wounded, and the primary miscliief done to the brain was concussion only, he might get perfectly well from the effects of the accident in ten or twelve days, but it will take another week at least, before he can recover from the debili- tating effects of the treatment. If the scalp were exten- sively wounded, and that in addition to concussion, the brain suffered from the presence of extravasated blood, the recovery must be very slow, and perhaps will never be com- plete. Much time wiU be necessary for the healing of the wound, and absorption of the effused blood. Wlien I say that the recovery may be incomplete, what I mean is, that all danger to Hfe may have passed away and the patient feel, or appear as well, or nearly so, as he was previous to the accident; yet, some defects remain, such as imperfect memory, or loss of one or more of the senses: he may recover.with partial paralysis of the muscles of one side of the face, or of a leg, or arm. The inflammations of the brain and its membranes, wliich result from injuries of the head, may, I think, be fairly divided into two species, wliich I wovdd designate by the relative terms of immediate or primari/ ; and the remote or secondary. By the immediate, or primary, I mean that form117 LECTURE V. of inflammation which becomes estabhshed in forty-eight hours after the accidentj and may terminate fatally in a few days; this species of inflammation usually commences in the pia-mater or arachnoid membrane^ and ultimately ex- tends to the brain itself: the dura-mater will not necessarily become impHcated^ provided it were not lacerated or other- wise injured at the tune of the accident. The symptoms which indicate a toell-marked case of this kindj are such as you might reasonably expect, when you take into account the exquisite dehcacy of the parts engaged, and the impor- tant functions performed by the brain, when in a healthy or natural state. The patient is restless and dehrious, with suffusion of the eyes and intolerance of Hght: the skin is hot and dry, the tongue furred, the bowels confined, the respuration hurried, and the pulse usually quick and hard; however, the state of the pulse in cases of inflammation of the brain is by no means uniformly the same; and, it should not be considered as an imerruag guide in the treatment, as it is, in many iastances of severe ioflanunatory affections situated elsewhere. Should this case proceed, to a fatal termmation, the symptoms become rapidly worse, the patient can't be kept in bed, and the fever increases in degree of sever- ity. At length this state is succeeded by exliaustion and coma; the patient now lies in bed unconscious of surrounding objects; involuntary discharges may take place; the pulse becomes small and intermitting, the breatlnng stertorous, the extremities cold, and finally he dies comatose, or a con- vulsive fit may close the scene. The post-mortem appear- ances win not materially differ from those I have described at our last meetmg, when speaking of erysipelas of the head, provided the case was not comphcated with extrava-CLINICAL SURGERY. 118 sation of blood or depression of the bone. I should, however, observe, that lymph is generally effused in this case, and that, I never saw an eflusion of lymph in cere- bral eiysipelas. By the secondary or remote inflammation of the brain, I mean that form of it, wliich never develops itself by any visible or external symptoms, before the seventh or eighth day after the injury, and which may not appear for three or four weeks. This species of inflammation is usually caused by severe contusions of the head, which may or may not be attended with a wound. In the event of there being no wound, when called on to attend a case of this kind^ you will probably be told that " the patient received a blow, or a fall on the head, eight or ten days before, which stumied hhn very much at the time, but that in the course of ten or fifteen minutes he vomited, and that the hghtness or dizziness of the head went off; and that notliing re- mained but a tumour wHch did not give hhn much uneasiness, that it disappeared altogether m a conple of days after the accident, and he contmued quite weU up to the day before you were sent for, when he was attacked with a sliivering, head-ache, loss of appetite, and sickness of stomach." On strict inquiry you wiU find Imn hot and feverish mth a quick hard pulse, the tongue furred, the eyes suffused, and intolerance of hght. At first the pain is re- ferred to the part which was hurt, at the thne the accident occun-ed, but from this it v.'il graduahy extend aU over the head. Should tliis case proceed towards a fatal termin- ation the symptoms ^dll graduaUy become more severe, and you will have in addition to those I have abeady mentioned, rigors repeated at iri'egular mtervals; not usuaUy sue-119 LECTURE V. ceeded by perspiration. In the advanced stage of the case tlie patient becomes dehrious; the rigors recur more violent, and more frequently than before; at length he appears to suffer from compression of the brain, as indicated by a new train of symptoms, such as amaurosis, perhaps, of one eye, and convulsions or paralysis of the muscles of one side, having lasted for some days, he ultimately dies either coma- tose or in a convulsive fit as in the former case. On examination after death, the scalp at the seat of the injury, may be found soft and tumid; and on being cut through some ill-conditioned matter mixed with gas may escape ; the bone itself \\t11 perhaps be denuded, the matter having formed between it and the pericranium. On exam- ining the parts within the skull, the dura-mater is occasion- ally, but not often found separated from the bone, by some fcetid matter, and in a sloughy state; the arachnoid mem- brane and the pia-mater altered as in the case of "immediate inflammation." There may be an effusion of sero-purulent matter between the pia-mater and the cerebral portion of the arachnoid membrane, or beneath the pia-mater on the surface of the brain: abscesses are often found tliroughout the substance of the brain, and inordinate quantities of se- rum in the ventricles. In the event of there having been a wound of the scalp, its appearance will be altered by the miscliief which is going on internally : we are to suppose, if it were properly treat- ed from the commencement, that by the eighth or tenth day after its infliction, it would present a healthy appearance, that it had granulated and was suppurating kindly. How- ever, as soon as constitutional symptoms indicative of inter- nal inflammation, develope themselves, the wound changes its120 CLINICAL SURGERY. aspect, puts on a glossy surface, and furnishes a gleety dis- charge ; it will continue loretty much in this state until the patient dies. Mr. Pott, with whose opinions on this subject you ought to be acquainted, attributed all the internal mis- chief to what he called a sloughy state of the vessels, wliich was propagated from without inwards, commencing in those of the pericranium, and from thence extendmg tln-ough the skull to the diura-mater, which he conceived was the part witliin the skull first attacked, between which and the bone, matter was formed and always to be found. The ex- perience of subsequent writers by no means corroborates Mr. Pott's opinion on this subject. Tliis theory about " a sloughy state of the vessels" was originally promulgated by M. Le Dran; however, plausible it may appear at first Adew, it is fanciful in the extreme, and you should not attach much importance to it. It would, in my opinion, be much more correct to suppose, that at the time of the injury, the more sensitive structures, beneath the dura-mater, received a shock from wliich they never completely recovered, until inflammation became slowly and insidiously estabhshed. Mr. Dease, in his work on injuries of the head, gives an account of sixteen cases of tliis description, in wliich he trepanned the patients, in expectation of finding matter between the bone and dura-mater, and in tlnrteen of them he found tliis membrane perfectly healthy and firmly adlienng to the skull; the eflects of the previous inflammation bemg more deeply seated. In the remaining tln-ee cases he found some matter between the dui-a-mater and skuU, but in two of them, the parts beneath tiiis membrane were also affected; so that the matter was confined between the bone and dura- niater in one case only: and tliis terminated favourably. I121 LECTURE V. need scarcely tell you that all tlie other cases terminated fatally. As to myseK I never saw a case of suppuration within the skull^ where the matter was only to be found on the cranial surface of the dura-mater. You should not attach too much importance to the presence or absence of the " puffy tumour" in those cases : you may have the external swelling without any internal miscliief; and even if the puffy tumoui' and internal suppui'ation did exist in the same case, it does not follow as a matter of course that they wall correspond in situation, or even occupy the same side of the head. The unhealthy condition of the wound is not to be taken as conclusive evidence of a diseased state of the dura-mater, although it sometimes in- dicates internal disease of a serious character. If, for instance, a patient affected with a lacerated wound of the scalp should be attacked with common fever, the wound will put on the degenerated appearance I have described : again, if a piece of bone were seriously injured at the tune of the accident, and is in progress of exfohation, the wound will assume an unhealthy appearance, although the patient should in every other respect feel quite well. Much diff"erence of opinion has, for a long time, pre- vailed amongst surgeons, as to tlie best constitutional method of treating such contused wounds of the scalp as are, in the first instance, attended with symptoms of concussion of the brain, to a greater or lesser extent. It is the opinion of some practitioners that all cases of this kmd, should be treated antiplalogistically on prophylactic principles, for several days after then- infliction. These gentlemen assert that mflammation commences internally sooner than is generally thought after the prunary injury; and that it is G122 CLINICAL SURGERY, only when suppuration has actually taken place, that the constitutional symijtoms appear. Others maintain an oppo- site doctrine, and allege that the patient ought not to be reduced too low on speculations, wliich may not be Avell founded, inasmuch as the gi-eat majority of such cases get on favourably, even when the patients Hve irregularly, and act ahnost in every respect, contrary to the dnections of the surgeon. As to myself, I am in the habit of recommending patients suffering from contused wounds of the scalp, to hve abstemiously at least for a week after the accident. I hkewise prescribe purgatives and antimonials in moderate doses. I tliinlc tliis practice is necessary, in order to lessen the danger of an attack of erysipelas of the scalp, and to discourage inflammatory action generaUy, but I do not carry measures of depletion to any gi'cater extent, fearing, that by so doing, I might render the patient more suscepti- ble of morbid action, by seriously reducing the natural powers of his constitiition. I cannot bi-hig myself to sup- pose that inflammation could proceed to suppuration in so important an organ as the brain, without exciting sympa- thetic derangement of the constitution. There are, it is ti-ue some cases on record wliich might lead you to beheve in the possibility of such an occurrence; but in making up your minds, as to the line of practice, winch ought to be pursued in serious cases, it is upon the rule, and not on the exception, you should fix your attention. In all cases of inflammation of the bram and its mem- branes when unequivocaUy established, no matter whether immediately, or remotely, after an injury of the head, the rule of practice is to push the antipldogistic treatment to the utmost; to employ mercury ^^ith great freedom both m-CONCUSSION AND INFLAMMATION OF BRAIN. 123 ternally and externally, and also counter-irritation. The extent to wliicli tliese remedies ought to be pressed, must be left to the judgment of the practitioner. It would be absurd in the extreme to suppose, for a moment, that any given degree of treatment, could be equally applicable to all classes of patients, young and old, delicate and robust. In cases of remote inflammation, attended with a puffy tumour, or an ill-conditioned state of the wound, Mr. Pott confidently recommended, the prompt application of the trepan, for the purpose of giving exit to the matter which he supposed was always to be found between the dura- mater and the skull; you may judge from what I have already said, that I consider tliis very uncertain, and hazardous practice, which should not be adopted without the utmost dehberatiou and reflection, on every circumstance and symptom connected with the case. As I intend ad- dressing you again on this subject, at our next meeting, I win say no more on the present occasion. CASE. December George E. Chesney, a healthy looking child Ave years old, was brought to the hospital at seven o'clock yesterday evening, affected as follows:—he was quite insensible, with his extremities cold, pupils widely ddated, breathing laborious, pulse very quick and small. On examining the head a large soft swelling was discovered on the right side, corresponding to the entire extent of the parietal bone. It was ascertained from the persons who accompanied him, "that at about ten minutes before his ad-CLINICAL SURGERY. 124 mission into the hospital, as he leant his back against an iron gate, which commmiicated with an area, and not being fastened at the time, it gave way, when he feU dov^m on his head, a distance of twenty-five feet." In about ten minutes after Ins arrival at the hospital, he began to cry, and his left arm and leg became convulsively agitated, and conti- nued in tliis state for ten or twelve minutes; liis breathing was stertorous, the tumour in the scalp still continued to increase in size. Wlien I first saw the patient, which was in about an hour after the accident, the extremities were warm, and consciousness had in some degree returned. I ordered the head to be shaved and the following lotion to be apphed to the tumour:— R Muriatis Ammonise - 3ii. Aceti Destillati - §ii- Aqu^ Destillati - Sxiv. m. ft. lotio more dicto apphcanda. 2^^f/._Passed a goodnight; is quite sensible this morning, complains of pain in his head : the swelhng, however, is less than it was yesterday; the pupils remain dHated and fixed, the convulsive twitches of the leg and arm have ceased, pulse one hundred, respii-ation rather quick but regular. Admoveantur temporibus hirudines sex. ■ Submuriatis Hydi-argyri - gr- vi- Pulveris Jacobi (veri) - - gr. m. Sacchari albi - - - 3i. m. et divide in chartas tres ajquales; sumat unam tertia quaque hora, ad aM solutionem. , 3,.,/.—Appears much better to-day; the powders had the desired effect, the pupils contract on exposure to a bright light; the tumour is still decreasing. Kepetatur lotio.CONCUSSION AND INFLAMMATION OF BRAIN. 125 5^yj.—Going on well, with the exception of a teasing cough, attended with an excess of mucus in the trachea: the chest is, however, clear on percussion. He was ordered a mucilaginous mixture for the pectoral symptoms, which disappeared in the course of tlu-ee or four days, but the bloody tumour had not completely disappeared on the twentieth day after the accident, when he left the hospital in other respects quite well. CASE. December 1\st.—Michael Owens, a stout looking man about thirty-five years old, was brought to the hospital this evening in a state of insensibihty. His extremities were cold; pupils dilated; respiration laborious; pulse slow and compressible. On examining his head, which was covered with blood, seven contused wounds were discovered, varying in length from one to three inches; no fracture could be detected. The head having been shaved and the wounds dressed, he was given some warm whey wliich he swallowed with difficulty, heaters were apphed to the feet. It appears from a statement, made by a pohce man who accompanied him to the hospital, that Owens, when very drunk, quarrelled with a party of three or four persons; and when knocked down by one of them, the others beat him with staves on the back and top of the head, wliilst he lay on his face, until they were satisfied that " he had got enough." %1nd.—Spent a restless night; the patients in the ward with him, complained that they could not sleep, he was so restless and moaned so loudly. At tliis moment, nine o'clock, a. m., which is about twelve hours since admission, he presents the following appearance :—He lies rather quietly126 CLINICAL SURGERY. in bed; respiration tolerably natural; pulse full, about eightr in a minute; pupils continue dilated and uninfluenced by exposure to a strong light. He was ordered to be bled from the arm to the amount of twenty ounces, to have four grains of calomel placed on the dorsum of the tongue, and repeated every tliird hour, and a terebinthiuate enema, 'iSrd.—He spent rather a restless night; had some in- voluntary discharges both from liis bowels and bladder; the pupils stiU remain dilated; pulse one hundred, and not so full as yesterday; he is uneasy, and it is extremely difficult to get lum to swaUow the powders. When about to bleed him on yesterday, the operator experienced much difficulty, and was obliged to get an assistant to hold his arm. At the moment the lancet touched him he made several forcible attempts to pull it away. The powders to be repeated, and a bhster apphed to the back of the neck. 24^t/i.—Spent rather a bad night; the light pupil still dilated; the left is now contracted; pulse less fii-m than yesterday; involuntary discharges occasionally, but not very often. The powders to be continued. 25t/i.—^Passed a very restless night, face somewhat fl.ushed, pulse 120 and why; the right pupil dilated, the left con- tracted as before. Fifteen ounces of blood to be taken from the arm; the powders to be continued^ and to alternate with the following mixture:— ^ Antimonii Tartaiizati - - gr- ii- Aquaj Purse - - ovii. kSyrupi Simphcis - - gss. m. ft. mistura more dicto sumenda, 26^/^.—He continues pretty much the same as yesterday ; the febrile symptoms, however, liigher in degree. He wasCONCUSSION AND INFLAMMATION OF BRAIN. l^/ ordered to be bled again to twelve ounces, and in addition to the calomel powders and tai'tar-emetic mixture, a dracluii of mercmial oratment to be rubbed into tlie axilla, and insid(^ of the thighs every foui-th hour ; the calomel not having as yet produced any visible specific effect on the system. The wounds, which look rather indolent, have been poulticed twice a day since the 23?r/. He has not spoken a word suice his admission into the hospital. 27;;/^.—He had two epileptic fits during the night: appears very weak to-day; the pulse very quick and small; the breathing laborious; the extremities rather cold and clammy; the discharges from the bowels copious. The calomel and anthnonial mixtm-e to be omitted; the mercu- rial frictions continued, and to have some beef-tea. 'i?)th.—No material alteration since yesterday: he had no return of the fits, but he is very weak, and Ms pulse scarcely to be felt. The mercmial friction and beef-tea to be continued. —During the early part of the night, he was ex- tremely iU, but towards morning he got a change for tlie better; he is becoming conscious, knows his mother, and has spoken for the first time since admission into the hos- pital. The mercmy having produced its specific effects, it was discontinued, and tonics administered; he gradually recovered aU Ins faculties, and was discharged cured towards the end of March. Remarks.—In the case of Chesney we had the bloody tumour and cerebral symptoms; the former having been self-evident, requires no explanation; the latter might have been the effect either of concussion, or compression, or both. I am of opinion that in this case, they were the128 CLINICAL SURGERY. effects of concussion only. My reason for thinking so is, the short time which elapsed after the accident, when re- action became estabhshed ; and, the rapidity with M'hich all the symptoms, with the exception of the bloody tumour, disappeared. There was not at any period, from the mo- ment of the accident, until he left the hospital, any symp- toms which would warrant the supposition, that inflamma- tion had taken place within the skuU. No j two of Mr. Abernethy's stages of concussion, were certainly, discerni- ble; indeed, I must say obvious; but fortunate^, the third never arrived. If compression existed at all, it must have arisen either from a depressed piece of bone, or extra- vasated blood. If it were produced by the former, it is not probable that the brain could so perfectly adapt itself to the exigency of the case, as to be able to perform its wonted functions in forty-eight hours after the accident! Again, if blood were extravasated in sufficient quantity to cause serious pressure on the brain, is it reasonable to sup- pose that the absorbents would remove it, in two days, and require twenty for the removal of what was effused extemally ? In the case of Owens it is probable that compression and concussion existed at the same time; for, although the skull had not been fractured, a blood-vessel within it, might have been ruptured, and in tliis way, the exti'avasated blood, assist in producing the symptoms. It is quite ob\dous that internal inflammation supervened on the second day after the accident; and, that it contributed much, both to the danger and complexity of the case. I tliink that the mer- curial treatment was of great service, not only as an anti- inflammatory remedy; but also by promoting absorption of129 CONCUSSION AND INFLAMMATION OF BRAIN extravasated blood. It is but rational to suppose that blood had been effused, judging, not only from the nature of the primary injury, but also from the length of time (nine days) wliich elapsed before any improvement took place in the sjrmptoms. In the time of Mr. Pott, this man's head, would, in all probability, have been trepanned in seven places; that is to say, at every wound of the scalp; with the hope of find- ing something " satisfactory" underneath. The fact of his having recovered, plainly shows, that a surgeon is not justi- fied, ia having recourse to an operation, wliich is in itself dangerous, if there be not good reason to suppose it would prove useful, and that he ought not iadulge too much in theoretical speculations, and convert his patient''s skull into a perforated target, by the random, but perhaps, fatal shots of a fanciful imagination ! G 2CHAPTER YL LECTURE YI. Compression of the brain.—Its Causes, viz.—Fractures.— Extravasations of Blood.—Foreign Bodies.—Pus.—The me, and abuse of the Trephine.— General p-ecepts.—Hernia Cerebri.—Cases and observations. Gentlemen, At oux last meeting we were engaged in discussing, in a general way, concussion, inflammation, and compression of the brain, as the usual effects of violence apphed either directly to the head itself, or to some distant part; I now request your attention to the special consideration of the causes and treatment of compression. The brain may be compressed either by a fractured bone, foreign bodies, ex- travasated blood, pus, or serum. It is the duty of the sur- geon to make liimself well acquainted with these causes, in order that he may be able to remove them, when at all practicable. There is no part of the skull which may not be fractured; we accordingly, meet with a great variety of fractui-es, as regards situation; hence it is, that we are in the habit of speaking of fractm-es of the roof, the base, the back, and anterior parts of the cranium. The bone maybe either simply broken without being displaced, or a portion of it may be driven in, so as to press upon the brain and its membranes: tiiis has given rise to the di\dsion of fi-actures into those with, and, those without depression. Eractures of the skull may, like those of tiie extremities, be fairlyLECTURE VI. 131 divided into simple and compound. Sir Astley Coopeu was the fii-st surgeon of eminence^ wlio applied this classifi- cation to such fractures. The local symptoms of a simple undepressed fi'acture, can never be ascertained unless the scalp were divided by the practitioner, in order to get a view of the bone. This would be a most unjustifiable piece of cruelty; provided, constitutional symptoms, of a most urgent nature, were not present. Indeed, it might so happen, that an examination of the external surface of the skull would not supply the information sought for : for ex- ample, m full grown persons, when the bones of the skull consist of two layers, or "tables," as they have been absurdly designated by the old anatomists, and an interme- diate diploe. This being the case, violence applied to the scalp may have the effect of breaking and driving in the inner layer, wlulst the external one may remain unbroken. I told you, on a former occasion, the best way of dis- tinguishing between a bloody tumom* of the scalp, and a depressed fracture unattended by a wound; I will not, therefore, detain you now with a repetition of my former statement. In this instance, although you may not be able to satisfy yourselves as to the exact nature of the case, you should not cut down on the bone, for the mere pm-pose of gratifying an idle curiosity; such a proceeding would be censurable in the extreme. Let us suppose for a mo- ment, that an over-officious practitioner had such a case, and that he cut down tlirough the sctdp and found the bone quite sound; what a lesson of humility this ought to teach such a rash and dangerous surgeon ! Here, he gave the patient unnecessary pain, and perhaps laid tlie foundation for an attack of erysipelas, and without the slightest pro-132 CLINICAL SUnCERY. pect of doing him any service whatever! Supposing he did find a fracture what advantage could result from the discovery? None^ whatever; on the contrary, by such a pro- cedure, the case would be rendered worse than before; for in addition to the objections I have already made, he would then have converted a sunple, into a compound fracture. It is true that the surgeons of former years, if they found a fracture, no matter how simple, would not rest satisfied with having done so much mischief; no, they would then proceed to trepan the patient, being under the impression that it was necessary to do so, in order to prevertt the occui-rence of bad symptoms. How such absm-d notions, could at any age, get possession of the human mind is diffi- cult to conceive; yet, unfortunately the facts on record are too numerous, and too well authenticated, to admit of any doubt on the subject. In cases of fracture with obvious depression of the bone, but unattended with a wound, or bad constitutional symptoms, the rule of practice at the present day, is not to cut down through the scalp; but to treat the patient antiphlogistically on prophylactic principles. It is well known that such cases very often get weU under tins treatment, without any operation whatever; and in young subjects the depressed portion of bone after some time, occasionally acquires its original level. In cases of compound fractures attended with depression, and shght constitutional disturbance, there is a difference of opinion amongst the surgeons of the present day, as to what ought to be done in the first instance. Some maintain that the bone should not be disturbed, that the wound ought to be closed over it, and the patient treated antiplilogisticaUy, and that in the event of bad symptoms occurring afterwards.LECTURE Vr. 133 it wall then, be time enough to operate. Tliere is no doubt but numerous cases treated in this way have recov- ered, even when the degree of depression of the bone ex- ceeded an inch. It has been on the other hand argued, and in my opinion with much reason, that such cases should be looked upon as exceptions to the general rule, and although no bad constitutional symptoms might exist imme- diately after the accident, that still the probability of their occurring subsequently, is increased, by leaving the bone de- pressed ; whereas the operation is not at all likely to place the patient in a worse condition than he was before. I beheve that in such cases, the bone, or foreign body, if any existed, ought to be elevated or removed in the first instance, although the patient did not at the time suffer fi'om the constitutional symptoms usually caused by serious pressure on the brain, A few years ago a very interesting case, wliicli bears strongly on this point, was admitted into the hospital under the care of my late much lamented colleague Mr. Lynch. The case was that of a man who walked to the hospital, to get a contused wound of the scalp dressed, a large stone having fallen on him, wliilst he was in the act of raising it up and placing it above his head on a scaffold. He was taken into the hospital by the resident pupil, who got his head shaved, dressed the wound and gave him some purging mixture. Tliis case went on without anytliing remarkable having occurred, up to the ninth day after his admission, when the nurse remarked that an altera- tion had taken place in his speech. Mr. LyisfCH liaving been apprised of this circumstance, examined the patient with great care, and found one of liis arms partially paralysed; still he did not complain of pain in the head,134 CLINICAL SURGERY. but said he felt heavy; he was rather torpid in manner, aud his countenance had somewhat of an idiotic expression. His bed ha^dng been placed in a dark comer of the ward, we asked him to get up and come over towards the Avindow, wliich he did with tolerable ease, and sat down on a chair wliicli was prepared for liim. On examining the wound we found its lips were glossy, and the discharge thin and gleety: Mr. Lynch introduced a probe wliich came against a hard substance, which at &st struck liim, as being the skull de- prived of the pericranium; but feeling the sm'face rough, we sponged out the wound, separated its Hps, and then, for the first time it was ascertained that a piece of granite was regularly impacted in the skull; its upper sm-face being on a level with the bone which sm-rounded it. When this discovery was made, all the surgeons of the hospital were summoned in consultation, and it was unanimously decided that the operation of trephuung should be performed without delay. Mr. Lynch having taken all the necessary prehmi- nary steps, applied the crown of the trephine on the unde- pressed skull, near the piece of stone, which was immoveably wedged in the place it occupied. The skull havhig been un- usually thick, a good deal of time elapsed before it was com- pletely sawn tlirough. At length this circular piece, wliich I hold in my hand, and wliich you perceive is more than a quarter of an inch thick, was removed; an elevator was then introduced beneath the stone, and used as a lever, so as to effect its removal. Here is the stone itself; you perceive that its greatest diameter is about an inch, its lesser about three- fourths of an inch; it is wedge-shaped, and was inserted in the bone pretty nearly as follows:—The long diameter was in the antero-posterior direction, situated at about an135 LECTURE VI. inch and a liaK from the sagital suture, and nearly parallel with it. The thick end of the wedge was situated above, the tliiu below, having driven all the bony fr-agments you see here, and the dura-mater before it. The stone and the fragments of bone having been removed, the depressed dura- mater presented a dirty ash colour, and had rather a sloughy ajjpearance. The operation did not materially affect the patient in any way J he complained very little of pain, although perfectly sensible, and was able to sit on a low chair, whilst it was being performed. The wound was dressed Hglitly, and the patient assisted to bed; but no improvement followed : on the contrary, he gradually became more stupid, and quite paralytic of the leg and arm of the side opposite the seat of the injury : he could not now be roused; he lay speech- less, breathing heavily; the debihty hourly increased ; his pulse was small and intermitting; he had a few violent, or, indeed, I might call them convulsive rigors, and died in four or five days after the operation. Unfortunately, liis friends would not allow 2lpost-mortem examination. It cannot be said, that in tliis case, the immediate cause of death was compression, produced by the stone and the depressed fragments of bone, inasmuch as the brain was capable of performing its functions for a week after the accident, although they continued to encroach on the con- tents of the skull. We must therefore suppose, that it was by acting as foreign bodies, and as such, exciting inflamma- tion and suppuration within the skull, that they gave rise to the fatal consequences which ensued. Had the exact natm-e of the case been known in tlie first instance, and the opera- tion performed, although the constitutional symptoms wer<f136 CLINICAL SURGERY. not at all urgent, there is little doubt but tlie patient would have had a better chance of recovery, than he had under the treatment which happened to be adopted. Sometimes fractures of the skull are compUcated by hemorrhage, an important blood-vessel being imphcated in the accident. Tor example, when a fracture happens to cross the course of the middle artery of the dura-mater, or open any of the siuuses, hemorrhage is a natural conse- quence, which adds much to the danger of the case. It is by no means unusual for blood to issue from the nose, ears, or pharynx, when fractures occur in the base of the skull. Wlien the blood comes from the ears, and that you have symptoms indicative of severe cerebral injury, and you hear that the patient had either received a blow from some blunt instrument, or fell from a height on the top of his head, you may infer that a fracture of the base of the skull has taken place, and that either the descending portion of one of the lateral sinuses, or one or more of the petrosal sinuses have been opened. Should the blood issue from the nose, or pharynx, there is reason to suppose that the fracture has traversed the body of the sphenoid bone, and has torn through the walls of the cavernous or cncular sinuses ; however, I have known one instance of a fracture of the frontal bone, near the longitudinal sinus, wliich was attended with profuse hemorrhage from the nose : but the patient having recovered, I had no opportunity of ascertain- ing whether the base of the skull had been fractured or not. It is only by a consideration of the history of the case, and these occasional hemorrhages, we are enabled to form an opinion in bad cases of injury of the head, as to whether a fracture of the base of the skull has taken place or not.lECTURE VI. 137 inasmuch as we are, by the peculiar locality of the parts engaged, altogether precluded from ascertaining the state of the bone, either by manual or ocular examination. Extravasations of blood within the cranium may be pro- duced by external violence, in any one of the following situations, viz.—^between the bone and dura-mater, between the pia-mater and the cerebral portion of the arachnoid membrane; between the pia-mater and the surface of the brain, in the substance of the brain, in the ventricles, or into the cavity of the arachnoid membrane. This last form of extravasation is usually the result of a fracture of the skull attended with a laceration of the dura-mater; including, of course, its arachnoidal layer. Some writers tell you that blood may be effused between the dura-mater and the arachnoid; this is a great mistake, and quite incompatible with the intimate union wliich exists between these two membranes, which nearly amounts to an incorporation of dissimilar structures. A few years ago I saw a case which was treated by my distinguished friend, and late colleague Dr. KiRBY, in this hospital, in which the extravasated blood was found in a fluid state in all the situations I have mentioned. Let us now inquire how blood when extravasated within the skull, proves injm-ious, and if death be caused in such a case, by the actual loss sustained by the vascular system ? No ! impossible, there is not space enough witlain the skull to accommodate an extravasation sufficiently copious to pro- duce death on that piinciple. It is then, either by causing compression of the brain so as to destroy its functions, or by acting as a foreign body, when extravasated, and as such, exciting inflammation, that it can be productive of fatalCLINICAL SURGERY. 138 consequences. When I say it may act as a foreign body, jou are not to suppose that it is as likely to act in that capacity as other animal products, such as bile, chyle, or urine, when they happen to become effused. Prom what I have already said, when speaking of bloody tumours of the scalp, you must be aware that extravasated blood is often absorbed without having caused inflammation in the parts where it had been effused. The hability to inflammation arising from such a cause, is proportioned to the suscep- tibihty of the parts into which the extravasation had occuiTed, to take on inflammatory action. Let us now inquire for what object is the operation of trepanning, or trephining had recom-se to in the practice of surgery ? At the present day, the operation is performed solely with a view to reheve the brain from pressure, and thereby prevent, or remove the bad consequences which may result fi-om it : it is an operation wliich ought n5t to be undertaken hastily, or until all the chcumstances of the case have been matm-ely considered, and the surgeon has made up liis mind that it is absolutely necessary in order to give the patient the only chance left for liis life. Gentlemen, this doctrine must strike you, as being at variance ^ath that laid down by the late Mr. Pott, and acted on, not oidy by himself, but by nearly all surgeons of eminence for years after liis death. Mr. Pott seemed to be under the im- pression that the operation itseK was by no means dange- rous, and that it was not only useful in cases of actual com- pression, but that it ought to be performed in all cases of fractures of the skull, whether the symptoms were urgent or not: in the latter case he thought the operation would have the effect of preventing the occurrence of bad sjinp-LECTURE VI. m toms. This was serious, I will add, awful doctrine; the promulgation of which, has led to most disastrous conse- quences. Judging from the cases on record, I have no hesitation in stating my conviction, that Mr. Pott and his followers, killed, at least two patients, for the one they saved by the operation. If the operation itself could do no harm, why, we need not hesitate in performing it in certain cases, although the symptoms should not be very urgent; but if on the contrary, it can be shown that it may cause death, you must at once perceive that it is wrong to have re- course to it, except in cases where it cannot render the patient's condition worse than it was before, and that there is good reason to suppose it may prove useful. That the operation is in itself dangerous you will, I tliinlc, readily admit, when I relate to you a few cases illustrative of tlie truth of my assertion. The late Dr. Colles was in the habit of statins: in his lectures, that about sixty or seventy years ago, there was a Dr. E 1 in this city, who fancied that insanity was often the consequence of a want of due proportion, between the size of the brain and the cavity of the cranium: in short, that the brain had not sufficient room to perform its functions, and the consequence was madness He accord- ingly persuaded hitnseK, "that if there was a large hole (a foreamen magnum superior) made in the roof of the skuU, that it would be productive of the double advantage of reheving the brain from the uudue restraint imposed on it, by the comparatively small size of the skull, and of ad- mitting, at the same time, the fresh air, to cool the over- heated organ." Strange as it may appear, tliis doctor was allowed to test the validity of his theory in Swift's hospital;CLINICAL SURGERY. 140 and tlie surgeon of tlie institution, Mr. 0 e, with more condescension than humanity, trepanned tlu^ee unfortunate patients ! Well, then, the brains of these poor creatures were relieved from the imaginary restraint, which the sapient doctor, in the subhnuty of his hallucinations, thought they suffered, and the cool aii- was admitted, aye, and the light too, but with what effect ? I have the authority of Dr. CoLLEs, when I state that no advantage whatever resulted from the operations; on the contrary, two out of the three persons operated upon, died of inflammation of the brain, and its membranes; the tlurd survived, having suffered only from the pain of the operation and permanent deformity ! What a cruel and disgusting piece of absm-dity from beginning to end! The only rational way of accounting for the transaction, is by supposing that all the pai-ties con- cerned were in a state of mental derangement. The doctor and the surgeon were certainly the most dangerous lunatics I ever heard of! You may read in the Surgical Dictionary, of a case where a patient was trepanned with a view to relieve an obstinate headache, wliich was supposed to depend upon a tumour growing from the dura-mater; but it so happened, that there was no tumour to be found, and that the patient died of inflammation of the brain, and its membranes, caused by the operation! You will find in Mr. Deasb's work, " on wounds of the head,'' an account of a great number of cases of fracture of the skull, where the patients were tre- panned on speculation; that is, with a view to prevent bad symptoms, according to Mr. Pott's theory; but unfortu- nately, the operation appeared to have had the opposite effect, and produced consequences which ended in the death ofLECTURE VI. 141 the patients. It miglit be said, in defence of the practice adopted in those cases, that the fatal inflammation wliich succeeded the operation was not caused by it, but by the primary injury. Now, in reply to this assertion, you have only to refer to Mr. Dease's book, and you will there find it candidly stated, that when the operation was performed, there was no bad symptom whatever, that the dura-mater was firmly attached to the bone, and perfectly healthy; but after the operation, bad symptoms set in, and that ulti- mately when the patients died, the dura-mater, in the neigh- borhood of the trepan-hole, was found in a sloughy state. It might still be said, that ia cases of fracture, the foundation for inflammatory action was laid at the time of the accident; but that the symptoms were not fuUy estab- lished, until after the operation had been performed. In reply to this argument, I wish to remind you, that in many of the cases, which I mentioned at our last meeting, and which were not attended with fracture of the bone, where the operation was performed many days after the accident, and with the expectation of finding matter between the dura- mater and the skuU; the former was found healthj, but in a few days after, became inflamed and sloughy. "When you reflect upon the numerous facts which may be adduced, in proof of the dangerous effects the operation of trepanning is in itself capable of producing, it must strike you, as being very strange and unaccountable, the tenacity with which the old siu-geons persevered in its frequent performance, notwithstanding the httle success wliich attended their practice. The late Mr. P. Roney, Sen. who was surgeon to the Meath Hospital for more than forty years, told me, that it was by no means unusual in liisCLINICAL SURGERY. 142 time, when an extern patient presented himself to get a wound in his head di-essed, and that it was discovered a fractui-e existed^ for the surgeon to send liim home to his lodgings, and at the same time give directions to the hospital porter to follow liim, "when the hurry of the morning visit was over, and shave his head and seal;/) him, and that he would call liimself either in the course of that day or the next to trepan him." Tliis statement, however strange or incredible it may appear to you, is critically true, and fully borne out by many passages in Mr. Dease^s book, fi'om which you may learn that in liis time it was not miusual to have the patient scalped one day, and trepanned the next. The hospital porter was in the constant habit of acting as a sort of pioneer to the surgeon, by shaving the head and completely removing an oval piece of the scalp, in order to make room for the crown of the trepan. It is unnecessary for me to teU you what a wanton piece of cruelty this was, the more especially when the patient possessed his usual seusibihty. The practice of removing a portion of the scalp, is not adopted by the surgeons of the present day for the foUoAving reasons :—^First, it is not necessary to do so, in order to remove a portion of the bone.—Secondly, it is conducive both to the formation of hernia cerebri, and permanent deformity. These objections to the old method of operating were forcibly urged by the late Mr. Hey of Leeds, some years ago, and their validity has been ac- knowledged by all subsequent writers on practical suiger3\ Gentlemen, I wOl now lay down for yom- guidance, some general precepts relative to the operation of trephining; the observance of which, wiH, I trust, assist you hereafter, when you shall have the management of dangerous cases,LECTURE VI. and perhaps be unable to obtain the personal assistance of any of your professional bretliren, either to assist yonr judg- ment or share the responsibihty. First.—^The operation being in itself dangerous and liable to cause death, should never be performed except when after mature consideration of the case, you have arrived at the conclusion in your own minds, that it cannot render the patient's condition Avorse than it was before, and that, on the contrary, there is reason to suppose it is calculated to improve it. Secondly.—In a case of compound fracture, Avith depres- sion of the bone, and bad constitutional symptoms, the operation ought to be performed with as little delay as possible. Thirdly.—In a case of compound fracture, with depressed bone, and a foreign body; although the coustitutional symptoms may not be urgent, the operation ought to be performed; for, in such a case, the unnatm-al state of the parts must necessarily give rise to inflammation, which may prove fatal; or if it do not, the probability is, that the patient will be subject to epilepsy, or some other disease of the brain, which wiQ tend to shorten life. F<mrtUy.—l\^ a case of compound fracture, with consi- siderable depression, although there should not be a foreign body, and that the constitutional symptoms are triflin"-, the depressed bone ought to be elevated, before the wound is dressed, for the reasons assigned in No. 4 : however, as there is a difference of opinion amongst surgeons of the greatest eminence, on this point, I would not recommend you to interfere with the bone, if the patient be a child.CLINICAL SURGERY. 144 unless it were depressed fully an inch below its natural level; but to rest satisfied witli closing the wound, and treating the case antiphlogistically. Fiflhly.—In a case of contused wound of the scalp, more especially if situated over the parietal bone, attended with a fracture, without any visible depression, but wii\\ bad constitutional symptoms, you should, in the first instance, try to bring about reaction by the usual means, but in the event of your failing to do so, you should not allow the patient to die without giving him a chance for his life, by operating, inasmuch as the symptoms may be the result of pressure, caused either by the inner table of the skuU, or blood effused between the dura-mater and the bone. Sixtlily.—^In a case of contused wound of the scalp un- attended with any visible fracture, but where the constitu- tional symptoms are very urgent, the treatment should be precisely the same as in No. 5, and the operation performed, if necessary, for the reasons I have already stated. Seventhhj.—^In a case of violent contusion of the scalp attended with bad constitutional symptoms, the treatment should be the same as in numbers five and six, with this sHght difference, that in the event of the operation becoming necessary, that the surgeon himself must inflict a wound in the scalp. EigUhhj.—li a person had been rendered insensible by a blow or fall on the head, and contuiued for some tune in tliis state, but afterwards recovered and remained tolerably well for a wlule, but fell into a state of insensibihtj- a second time, this is an obvious case of compression from effused blood wliich may be situated between the skidl145 HERNIA CEREBRI. and dura-mater, and consequently removeable by the ope- ration. Ninthly.—"V\Tien there is good ground to beheve from existing symptoms and the liistory of the case, that matter has formed between the dura-mater and the skull, the ope- ration is called for, although it seldom proves useful, inasmuch as the more deep-seated parts are usually affected at the same time. Tenthhj.—You are not to be deterred in any case from operating by the presence of a sinus, if you have good reason to believe that the cause of pressure exists in such a situation. Such, gentlemen, are the general precepts which you ought to bear in mind when you have the care of severe injuries of the head. In a city like tliis, both the patient and attending surgeon can always have the assistance of a number of practitioners ; but such of you as intend practis- ing in remote districts, will be deprived of tliis advantage, and the entire treatment and responsibility of bad cases rest mth yourselves exclusively; indeed, you should not ven- ture on so arduous an undertaking, until your conscience, tells you that you are fully prepared with the amount of information wliich the duties of youx station will demand. I have mentioned hernia cerebri as one of the bad con- sequences which may succeed the operation of trephining; I now request your attention whilst I make a few observa- tions on tliis subject. Protrusions of the brain have been long since designated by the terms heniiEe cerebri, no matter whether they were the result of congenital malformation, accident, or disease. On the present occasion, I will confine my remarks, solely to those forms of the disease which follow HCLINICAL SURGERY. 146 and appear to be tlie result of the operation of trephining. It occasionally happens that in the course of a few days after the operation, a soft pulsatory swelling will force its way up tlu-ough the trepan-hole, and gradually increase in size until it ^vill perhaps, ultimately become as large as a hen's egg. The appearance of the surface of the tumour will not be the same in all instances : in one case you may have it rough and irregular, of a dirty brownish appearance and emitting an offensive smeU. The consistence of the tumour in this case will be moderate, just what you would expect from a mixture of coagulated blood and disorganised brain. When the tmnour has attained the size I have mentioned, the constitutional symptoms will be those indi- cative of irritation and pressure of the braiu. Por example, it is by no means unusual, should the tumour be situated on the right side of the head, for the patient to become amaurotic of the left eye, or be attacked with convulsions or paralysis of the left leg or arm, or both at the same time. When these symptoms only exist in a partial degree, they may be increased by pressure appHed to the tumour : the pulse is usually quick, the intellect impaired, the appetite bad, and the constitution greatly deranged. In such a case of hernia cerebri as I have just described, there is much reason to suppose that the dura-mater was torn either at the tune of the accident, or by the teeth of the saw during the operation. As I consider Mr. Aber- nethy's description of this form of the disease tolerably correct—I vnR read it for you.—" Their formation seems to l)roceed from an injury done to a part of the brain by con- cussion or contusion, which has terminated in a disordered state of the vessel, similar to what occurs in apoplexy. The147 HERNIA CEREBRI. morbid state increasing, one or more vessels give way, and an effusion of blood into the brain ensues; wliich, if the skull were entire, would probably occasion apoplexy, but when there is a deficiency of bone that allows it to expand, presses the sm-face of the brain and its membranes tlu-ough the vacant space. The dura-mater soon ulcerates, and the tumom- pushing tlu-ough the opening, now increases with a rapidity proportioned to that with wliich the hemorrhage takes place within. At last the pia-mater and the sti-ucture of the brain, which covers the effused blood, are so extend- ed as to give way and the blood oozes out and coagulates. Thus, the quick growth, and aU the other phenomena obsei-vable in these tumom-s, are satisfactorily accounted for." There are some points in which I do not agree with Mi, ABERNETuys views On the subject. In the first place, I tliink he over-strains the analogy, which exists only to t. moderate extent, between tliis case and one of simple apo- plexy; and again, I am unwilling to subscribe to the opinion that it is by the process of ulceration, the dura-mater is destroyed, so as to admit of the protrusion of the brain The dura-mater is not at aU likely to become ulcerated from any pressure which such soft materials as coagulated blood and bram could produce. Again, when speaking of such cases, whilst he admits the inutihty of local apphcations to the tumour itself, he recommends the removal of an ad- ditional portion of bone, for the purpose of reheving the bram from pressure. This appears to me such equivocal practice, that I cannot recommend its adoption. The great majonty of those cases terminate fatally; however, as some ot them occasionally get well, you should not abandon any as beuig altogether hopeless.CLINICAL SURGEUT. 148 The second form of lierxiia cerebri, consequent on the operation of trephining, is very different in many respects from the one I have described. In this case the dura- mater remains unopened, and constitutes a sort of capsule for the tumour. The appearance of the surface will depend on the state of its dura-matrel investment; you will, accord- ino-lv, find it at one time of a dirty ash colour, attended with a copious fojtid discharge; whilst perhaps, at anotlier stage of the same case, it will be villous and red, Avith a healthy discharge. As to density, the tumour will likewise vary in different stages of its growth and decay. Tor ex- ample, so long as it continues to increase in size, it will be tense and elastic; but as soon as it begins to decline, it will become soft and lose its elasticity, and convey to the touch, the idea that it is composed of something of a semifluid consistence. In my opinion extravasated blood has notlung whatever to do with the formation or composition of these tumours; but that they consist altogether of organized brain, covered with its proper membranes, which gradually yielded to the continued force of the heart's action, inces- santly appHed at the base of the skull, whilst the natural boundary of the brain was rendered defective superiorly by the trepan-hole. I remember having seen, some years since in the Meath Hospital, a very interesting case of injury of the head, which bears strongly on our present subject. I have not the notes of the case at present, but I distinctly recollect aU the important points connected with it, which were as follow :— CASE. Patrick Moran, aged fourteen years, was accidentallyHERNIA CEREBRI. 149 struck, by one of Ms companioiis, a violent blow on the head with a hurl at Dolphin's Barn, where he had been playing. Moran was knocked down by the blow and lay for some time on the ground in a state of insensibility. His friends stated, that in the course of a quarter of an hour he recovered so as to be able to stand, that his head was giddy and his stomach turned; he afterwards got so well, that with the assistance of his father, he walked to the hospital, a distance of about half a mile from where the accident occurred. On his admission into the hospital the attending surgeon, the late Mr. Thomas Eoney was sent for; I happened to be with hitn when he received the message, and accompanied him to the hospital. On our arrival, we found the patient lying in bed apparently in a heavy sleep; Mr. Eoney attempted to rouse him, but in vain, he appeared to be quite insensible. His pulse was slow and irregular, the breathing laborious, one of the pupils was dilated, the other contracted. On examining the head, a large bloody tumour was discovered over the parietal bone, it was soft in the centre and rather firm towards the circumference; on pressing it with the fingers a crepitating noise was audible. Mr. Eoney being at once impressed with the idea of its being an urgent case of com- pression of the brain, sent for his colleague, the late Mr. Hewson, whilst I made the necessary preparations for the operation of trepliining. Mr. Hewson arrived in a few minutes and at once concurred in Mr. Eoney's view of the case, and the necessity of operating without delay. Every thing necessary for the operation being ready, the patient's bed was brought over near a window, and a free incision made down tluough the scalp into the tumour; a considerable quan-CLINICAL SURGERY. 150 tity of blood flowed from the wound, whicli was immediately sponged ont and the bone exposed. It was then ascertained, beyond aU doubt, that a very extensive fracture traversed the parietal bone, and the crown of the trephine was applied at once. As soon as the saw began to work, it became ob- vious by the motion of the portion of bone, upon which it was placed, that the fracture was very extensive. The re- collection of the incomplete state of the sutui'es, in so young a subject as the patient happened to be, easily accounted for the mobihty of a larger piece of bone than could possibly be included within the crown of the trephine. After a short tim^ the unsteady state of the bone rendered it neces- sary to lay aside the saw altogether. The operator had now recom'se to a strong pair of forceps, and without much ex- ertion removed, at least one-half of the parietal bone. This was followed by a copious flow of blood, which had been confined between the skull and dura-mater: this membrane had been detached to a considerable extent, from the skull aU around the opening, and at the centre it was depressed at least an inch below its natural level. On the escape of the blood, the patient opened his eyes, and appeared to be somewhat better, but he soon again fell off into a lethargic slumber. The brain did not resume its natural position on the removal of the blood and bone with which it had been compressed. The wound, was lightly dressed, and general directions given to the nurse, as to what she ought to do for the patient during the night. On the next morning there was but little change for the better observable; however, on gently separating the bps of the wound, it became obvious, that the brain had in some degree, succeeded in attempting to recover its natural level; but asHERNIA CEREBRI. 151 yet, it was at least half an inch below the cranium. The patient was treated of course, antiplilogistically, and nothing very particular occurred before the fifth day after the opera- tion ; by tliis time the dura-mater had attained not only its original level, but evinced a strong tendency to protrude tlirough the breach in the skuU. The pulsatory motions of the brain were now very obvious, and in the course of three or four days, there was a tumour the size of a walnut pro- jectiug through the opening. This tumour was obviously covered by the dura-mater, wliich presented a very dirty ash- coloured appearance, attended with a copious discharge of foetid matter. The constitutional symptoms were improved by the operation, but stiU the case was by no means in a promising state, on the contrary, iu the course of a few days, the tumour became as large as an orange, and the dis- charge was now so great that it kept up a constant stream down the side of the head and neck. The patient had now some rigors, almost amounting to convulsive fits; he was likewise attacked with diarrhcsa, and his immediate death was expected. I was at this time in the habit of dressing the tumour two or three times a day, with compresses of hnt wet with lotions, wliich were frequently changed from black-wash, to solutions of alum in a decoction of bark with tincture of myrrh, &c. The compress was usually kept on by strips of adhesive plaster and a roUer; however, a very moderate degree of pressure was suf&cient to cause convulsive motions in the leg and arm of the opposite side. The case now appeared aU but hopeless, the patient being emaciated to a great extent, his intellect gone, paralytic of one side, great prostration of strength, and the tumour and the discharge increasing daily. In fact he was all but aban-CLINICAL SURGERY. donjfd to liis fate ; the nurse, however, got instructions to give him a httle chicken broth and wine as long as he was able to swallow. Matters were then at the worst, when the nurse informed Mr. Eoney at the morning visit, " that poor Httle Moran was not only ahve but better, that he had swallowed a httle tea, and she thought by his looks lie knew her." Tliis announcement agreeably surprised the gentle- man who had charge of the case; and he found by a close investigation of the symptoms, that the nvtrse's statement was quite true. The tumour looked cleaner than usual, sloughs were being detached, and the discharge, although copious, was more purulent than before. Erom tliis period he continued to improve, the tumour became perfectly clean, and its surface presented the appearance of scarlet velvet, the discharge had lost the offensive smell and was much diminished in quantity, the tumour became soft as if it con- tained a fluid, and duninished in size, every day becoming less and less, and in the course of a month, after the change for the better had taken place, it had apparently retired within the skull. The woiind healed slowly, and many months elapsed before he recovered the perfect use of his leg and arm. I have no doubt on my mind but the proper cerebral substance itself constituted the bulk of the tumour in this case, and that the feeling of fluctuation wliich existed at its latter stage, was the result of interstitial absorption, by wliich the protruded portion of brain was diminished in size; tliis had the effect of rendering its dura-matrel invest- ment flaccid. Here I wish to remark, that pressure appeared to have an injurious effect; for, so long as it was employed the tumour continued to increase in size, but when it was153 THE USE OF THE TREPHINE. given up altogetlier^ it began to diminisli. It must be ad- mitted that in tliis case, the removal of the tumour was accomphshed cliiefly by the vis medicatrix naturBe, wliilst art exerted its salutary influence through the medium of the constitution only. CASE. November 'ii^th.—Samuel Currie, a sailor aged twenty- two years, was brought to the hospital at eleven o'clock this morning, labouring under the following symptoms:—He was perfectly insensible; the extremities cold; breathing stertorous; pulse quick, small, and intermitting; and the pupils dilated. On examining the head a contused wound of the scalp about tliree inches long, was discovered corres- ponding to the anterior portion of the frontal bone: the bone itself was denuded, and a fracture about an inch in length, with a shght degi'ee of depression, was visible close to the longitudinal sinus. It appeared on inquiry that this man had fallen a distance of forty feet, from the rigging of a vessel down on the deck; that he came oh his head, was instantly deprived of aU sense and voluntary motion ; and bled profusely from the nose immediately after the accident. Soon after liis admission into the hospital, he was put to bed, and had his head shaved; heaters were appHed to liis feet, and warm whey was poured into the pharynx, but he could not swallow. This plan of treatment was persevered in with a hope of bring-iug about reaction for about an hour, but aU to no purpose; the symptoms were becommg worse, and he had two convulsive fits witliin the last half hour, by which he appeared quite exhausted. I then felt myself called on to proceed without dclav with H 2CLINICAL SURGERY. 154 the operation of trephining, being assisted by the resident pupil Mr. Waddey. The wound having been eidarged so as to make room for the crown of the trephine, I apphed the centre-pin on the undepressed portion of the skull, but in such a way as to include the fracture witliin the range of the saVs action: this brought me quite close to the longi- tudinal sinus. On raising the bone it did not appear that the inner table had been much depressed; but some fluid blood was immediately forced up tlu'ough the opening, by the pulsatory motions of the brain, wliich were unusally strong. By passing in a probe, I ascertained that the dura mater had been detached from the skull, for a distance of two inches, in a parallel direction with the anterior part of the longitudinal sinus. About two ounces of blood having escaped; the stertor ceased, the pupils contracted, and he Was able to swaUow a httle whey. The hps of the wound were brought together by adhesive plaster, and a hght com- press of damp lint placed over it. Eight o'clock, p.m. The breathing has become very laborious; the face is flushed, and the pulse full and frequent, rifteen ounces of blood were taken from his arm, after which Ins breathiag became more tranquil, his face pale, and the pulse weak. I ordered a bolus consisting of ten grains of calomel, and two of aromatic powder to be pre- pared, and placed on the dorsiun of the tongue; and a turpentine enema to be administered early in the morning if necessary. 27i!/i.—Had a tolerably good night; no return of the fits; the bolus and enema acted powerfully; the discharges passed off involuntarily; pulse variable, ranging fi-om seventy-THE USE OF THE TREPHINE. 155 five to ninety, and rather full; respiration tolerably quiet. He made some iueffectual attempts to speak. Admoveantur temporibus hiradines viginti. R Submm-iatis Hydrargyri - 9i. Sacchari albi - - 3ss. Pulveris aromatici - - gr. x. m. et divide in chartas decem sequales, sumat unam secunda qnaque hora. %Wi.—Passed a tolerably good night up to five o^clock this morning, when he became uneasy for a short time; leech-bites bled freely, and the powders were regularly given. The constitutional symptoms are pretty much the same as yesterday. Let the leeches and powders be repeated, and two table- spoons-full of the antimonial mixture be given in an hour after each powder. —Was very uneasy during the night, liis bowels having been frequently affected; he drinks freely, and appears to be more conscious than hitherto; the pulse and respiration are much the same as yesterday. Tlie powders and antimonial mixture to be discontinued, and a drachm of mercurial ointment to be rubbed in, on the inside of the thighs and arms every six hours; and a bhster apphed to the back of the neck. 30^/^.—"Was rather uneasy last night, but is now quiet and appears conscious of persons being around liim; he spoke a few incoherent words tliis morning. Tour papers of the ointment have been rubbed in; but he is not yet under the specific influence of mercury. The mercurial frictions to be continued.156 CLINICAL SUllGERY. ' Decemler 1st.—vSlept well last iiiglit, and is very much improved tliis morning: lie is quite aware of the calls of nature, and gets out of bed to reheve liiniself; liis gums are swollen, and his breath foetid from the mercury; he looks intelligent, and replies to questions rationally; pulse ninety-six. I gave directions to have the mercury omitted, and beef- tea to be given in small quantities tlu-ee or four- times during the day. The wound wliich had been poulticed during the last two days looked tolerably well, and the dura-mater pre- sented a healthy appearance. Erom this day he continued to improve up to the ninth of January, by wliich time the wound had healed, and with the exception of a defective memory he left the hospital quite well. CASE. September 'i'dth.—Peter Walsh, aged twenty-six, a painter, was brought to the hospital tliis morning, labouiing under the following symptoms :—He was quite insensible; extrem- ities cold; pupils fixed; respiration stertorous ; pulse forty- six, and compressible; constant di-awing up of the lower extremities. Over the left eyebrow there was a lacerated wound an inch and a half in leng-th, laying bare the frontal bone; a large portion of which was detached, the supercil- iary ridge being included and considerably depressed : the orbital jjlate was fractured and moveable. A large wound of the scalp at the back of the head denuded the occipital bone; and in addition to these injui-ies there was a simple fracture of the right femur. It appeared fi-om the state- ment of the persons who accompanied him to the hospital.157 THE USE OF THE TREPHINE. that lie liad fallen from a drawing-room window into the area beneath, and whilst in the act of falhng his forehead came against one of the spikes of the area railing. I saw liim in less than an hour after the accident; and then reac- tion was not perfectly estabhshed. I had my colleagues summoned in consultation, and we met about three hours after the accident, and there being no improvement in the symptoms, it was resolved that the depressed bone should be removed. I accordingly enlarged the wound, and with the aid of a scalpel and forceps, removed the depressed portions of bone; the saw not being necessary. The orbital plate, although loose, I did not think it necessary to re- move, as it was not displaced. On the removal of some spicnlse which had penetrated the dura-mater, a small por- tion of cerebral matter escaped tlu-ough the opening. There being a considerable oozing of venous blood after the operation, I placed some damp lint in the wound, and then replaced in a temporary manner the flaps, and supported them by strips of adhesive plaster. The pulse in a short time after the operation rose to eighty-six,, but did not acquire much strength j the surface became warm, and the breathing free from stertor. At eight o^clock in the even- ing, the pulse was eighty; the surface warm; constant mo- tion of the limbs; had two convulsive fits since the opera- tion, and vomited once; no motion from the bowels; urine retainned. The urine was now drawn ofl^ with a catheter, and found deeply tinged with blood. I ordered liim a bolus composed of calomel and jalap to be taken immediately. ^Ith.—Had a restless night; bowels not affected by the bolus; respiration hurried; pulse quick, but not strong; face partially flushed; urine retained. The urine wasCLINICAL S0RGEUY. 158 drawn off as before; but it was not so bloody; twelve ounces of blood were taken from the arm when the pulse faltered^ and the face became blanched; the arm was bound up immediately, and five grains of calomel every third hour prescribed. 28(/t.—Pulse one hundred, and weak; he lies quietly but appears exhausted. A blister to be applied to the back of the neck, and the powders continued. Eight 0^clock, p. m.—Is very restless, constantly tossing his head from side to side; pulse quick; bowels too free. The powders to be omitted. 2Qt/i.—Pulse intermittent, and scarcely to be felt; pupils fixed; surface cold; respiration fifty. SOt/t.—Died at haK-past one o'clock on yesterday, and on examination, twenty-four hours after death the foUo-ndng state of the parts affected were ascertained:—The dura- mater at the seat of the supra-orbital wound, in a sloughy state; beneath the pia-mater corresponding to both hemi- spheres of the cerebrum, there was a deposit of sero-purulent fluid : the anterior lobe of the left hemisphere, was lace- rated and of a hvid colour; and the entire brain was pre- ternaturally vascular. The fracture wliich had done so much injury to the frontal bone, had crossed the ethmoid also. Observations.—The perusal of the foregoing cases is cal- culated to produce a favourable impression on the mind of the reader, as to the utility of the operation by the trepliiiie in certain dangerous forms of compression of the brain. In these cases the symptoms became milder immediately after the operation; and there cannot be a doubt, but the livesTHE USE OF THE TREPHINE. 159 of Moran and Cui'iie were saved by it; and that Walsli woxild have died on the 2,6th instead of the 29th, had he not being operated on in the first instance is quite obvious. I consider Moran's case one of pecuhar interest as being illustrative of a series of important phenomena, which occa- sionally succeed severe injuries of the head. In the first in- stance, he was knocked down by the blow, and remained for a while under the stuiming influence of concussion. Trom this state he soon recovered, so as to be able to walk a distance of half a mile, by wliich time a sufficient quantity of blood was poured out between the dura-mater and the skull, to cause symptoms of compression : these symptoms were rapidly growing worse, and would, doubtless, have ended in the death of the patient, had not the operation been performed, and the extravasated blood removed. The obstinacy with which the hernia cerebri continued to in- crease in size, so long as any attempt to restrain it by pres- sure was made, and the gradual retirement and ultimate disappearance of the tumom* when not mechanically inter- fered with, are facts well worthy of the recollection of every practitioner in surgeiy. In the case of Currie, it might appear to some persons, that I acted hastily in operating so soon after the accident, and before reaction was estabhshed. My conviction at the time was, that he must have died in a few minutes if he were not reheved at once, and consequently that reaction would never take place. The result has satisfied me, that I took a proper view of the case in the fhst instance. The usual means of bringing about reaction had been tried for an hour after his admis- sion into the hospital; and, instead of producing the de-CLINICAL SURGERY. 160 sired effectj the symjDtoms were getting worse. The report states, " that within the last haK hour he had two convid- sive fits by which he appeared quite exhausted." Under these circumstances I felt it my duty, not to wait a moment, and proceeded to give the patient the only chance remaining, by operating. It is no argument against the operation of trepliining, to say that it should not be done whilst the patient continued in a state of collapse, on the principle that life might be extinguished by adding "shock to shock.'' No, this case is an exception to the general rule; the operation though painful, and dangerous when performed on persons whose natural sensibihty is not diminished, or vital powers depressed; yet, it cannot be considered a shock " to a person destitute of feeling," and when not necessarily attejided by a serious loss of blood. The report of Currie's case states, that when " about two ounces of blood escaped, the stertor ceased; the pupils contracted, and he was able to swallow a little whey." Here, the operation instead of increasing the collapse wliich existed before, had the imme- diate effect of producing the reaction wliich ordinary means had failed to accomplish. In the case of Walsh, the accident caused so much lesion of structure as weU as depression of the vital powers, that his recovery could scarcely be expected. This much, how- ever, is quite certain, that the operation was productive of some advantage, even in his case, although he ultimately died. The report states, that the pulse was only fifty- six, and the surface cold," but soon after the depressed piece of bone was removed, " the pulse rose to eighty-six ; the surface became warm, and the breatliing free from stertor." In fact the operation, in this case as in thatTHE USE OF THE TKEPHINE. 161 of Currie, appearedto act as a stimulus, under the influence of wliicli the depressed vital powers revived, but the amount of structural lesion was such, as could not fail to give rise to a fatal degree of inflammation.CnAPTER YIL LECTUEE YII. Peritonitis—its causes—symptoms;—Pathological effects. —The diseases with which peritonitis might le confounded, ^iz.:—Colic, retention of urine.—Hysteria.—The passage of biliary calcidi:—Dysentery :—Cholera, Sfc. The treat- ment of peritonitis.— Wounds of the abdomen:—their va- rieties ;—superficial, and penetrating wounds and their effects. Gentlemen, Preparatory to the consideration of injuries of tlie abdo- men, I 'WT.sli to call your attention to Peritonitis. This is a disease which you will be often called on to treat, when you shall be engaged in the practice of your profession; you should, therefore, make yourselves well acquainted with it, so as to be able to distinguish between it and other diseases, to which it bears a resemblance. The causes which may produce peritonitis are numerous, and in many respects, differ materially from each other. Peritoneal in- flammation sometimes estabhshes itself without our being able to assign a cause; wlulst in other instances it can be fairly attributed to some obvious precedhig chcumstance. Hence it is that we are in the habit of speakmg of idiopa- thic, and of symptomatic peritonitis. Exposure to cold and wet, produces peritom'tis occasionally, and it is now and then, the effect of matastasis, or a sudden transfer of mor- bid action winch originated in distant parts: for instance.163 LECTURE VII. au attack of erysipelas^ goiat^ or rheumatism, which com- menced, perhaps, in the lower extremities, wiU suddenly disappear, and at the same time the peritoneum will be seized with inflammation. Peritonitis may be the conse- quence of accidental injuries of the abdomen, such as con- tusions and wounds; or it may succeed certain surgical operations; as hthotomy, the operation for strangulated hernia, or of tapping either the abdomen or bladder. Ex- travasations of urine, bile, chyle, &c., occasionally give rise to peritonitis, and it is sometimes the result of constriction of some portion of the omentum or intestine, as in intus- susceptio and strangulated hernia. I will now suppose a case, in which the inflammation commenced in the neighbourhood of the umbihcus, in a strong young man, and that it proceeded from bad to worse until it ended in the death of the patient. If such a case were of idiopatliic origin, the probability would be that constitutional symptoms, such as shivering and sickness of stomach would occur a short time before the pain; how- ever, tliis is not always the case; on the contrary, the pain . in the majority of instances is the first symptom. At first the pain is not very severe, and is referred to one spot, but it usually becomes very acute in a short time, and spreads over the abdomen. The patient now hes on his back, with his knees drawn up, his face pale, the eyes sunken, the cheeks hollow, and the mouth expressive of intense suffer- ing ; the stomach is usually sick, and sometimes the sick- ness exists to a most distressing degree. The tongue is generally furred, and in the event of vomiting, the matter ejected from the stomach will determine its colour : accord- ingly, milk or whey, will impart a whitish, and bile, a yel-CLINICAL SURGERY. 164 lowish tinge to it. The pulse and respiration are quicker tlia,n natiu-al; and tlie pulse is also, contracted, and hard. The sldu is thy, and somethnes but not always, preternatu- rallywarm: the secretions generally, are duninished; the bowels confined ; the mine scanty, and occasionally so acrid and stunulating, that the patient is tormented v>iih a constant desire to pass it, although there may not, perhaps, be an ounce in the bladder. The pain is now very great, and the patient feels as if a sharp instrument were passing through him; however, it is subject to exacerbations and remissions; being at one time intolerably acute, and at the next moment comparatively mild. The sHghtest pressure, not even that caused by the weight of the bed-clothes, can now be borne, without the greatest pain; we accord- ingly find that the patient keeps his knees constantly drawn up, for the double purpose of relaxing the abdominal muscles, and of warding off the pressure of the clothes, from the abdomen, wliich is now very much swollen and tympanitic. As the disease advances, all these symptoms become rapidly worse : the prostration of strength increases; the pulse becomes small, compressible and intermittent; the respii-ations hm-ried; cold perspiration breaks out on the extremities; the pain in the abdomen ceases; laiccough, if it did not previously exist, now occurs; diarrhoea may take place; the eyes grow dim, and the patient expires without a struggle, in a state of the most profound cahnness. The length of time, wliich may elapse from the commencement of the attack, before its fatal termination, ^\-iIl vary in dif- ferent cases. I have knoMoi patients die of peritonitis m thirty-six hours after they were first attacked; others will live for four or five days; but if the case should not ter-LECTURE VII. 165 minate before the sixth day, I would say, that it had then assumed the clironic form. By a post-mortem examination, the follomng appearances Avill be discovered :—The abdomen having been laid open, the great omentum will be pushed forward by the inflated intestmes beneath. On turmng up the omentum, the peri- toneal covering of the intestines will be found excessively vasculai-: the surface of the membrane will be here and there partially concealed by patches of lymph, which also exists in great abundance between the convolutions of the intestines. If the hand be now passed down behind the pubis, and the small intestines drawn up towards the tho- rax, a large quantity of sero-purulent matter will be disco- vered both in the pelvis, and lumbar regions. Gentlemen, here I wish to apprise you of what, in my judgment, is a very erroneous opinion, as regards the state of the peritoneum in fatal cases of inflammation of tliis membrane. It is generally stated by authors, who treat of peritonitis, that the sudden cessation of pain, which usually precedes a fatal termination, is a sure sign that mortification has actually taken place. Now, I wish you to understand that my experience of this disease, and the dissections I have made of persons who died of it, have induced me to arrive at an opposite conclusion. With the exception of one or two instances, I have never been able to find gangrenous spots in the peritoneum, when examining the bodies of persons who died of peritonitis. I am, therefore, disposed to think, it would be more in accord- ance with the principles of correct pathology, to consider the absence of pain in such cases as indicative of a fatal loss of sensibility, rather than an assurance of structural166 CLINICAL SURGERY. disorganization, and cliemical decomposition. For my own part, I look upon the sudden subsidence of pain in those cases as the incipient, or first stage of death. There are many diseases with wluch peritoidtis may be confounded; you should, therefore, study them and make yourselves acquainted with their diagnostic symp- toms. Cohc is a disease wliich has some sjonptoms in common with peritoidtis; such as violent pain in the abdo- men and vomitiag; but, by a little reflection and inquiry you will be enabled to distinguish between them without much difficulty. In cohc, although the pain may be very violent, it is not of that lanciuating character which exists in peritonitis. I have already told you, that the pain attending peritoneal inflammation is increased on the shght- est pressure; such is not the case in cohc; on the contrarj', pressure seems to have an opposite effect. You Avill often meet with patients suffering from cohc, forcibly pressing their hands, or a pillow against the abdomen, as a means of reheving the pain. In peritonitis the patient is affected with symptomatic fever, whilst in cohc, the constitutional derangement, wliich exists, is not of a febrile character. Thus, then, you perceive that the two diseases which may, and often have been confounded and mistaken by ignorant practitioners, can, by a calm consideration of exist- ing symptoms, be deprived of their appai-ent analog)^ Retention of urine and peritonitis have sometimes, cer- tain symptoms in common, wliich have often led to fatal mistakes in practice. The symptoms to which I aUude, are pain and swelling in the hypogastric region, attended with a frequent desire to make water; only a small quantity of wliich comes away, wlulst the urgent desire to pass more contiimes.167 LECTURE VII. I had a personal knowledge of three cases of peritonitis, where the medical attendants were altogether led astray by the uiinaiy sjonptoms; and it was only by the introduction of a catheter that they conld be persuaded that the patients were suffering fi'om peritoneal inflammation, and the uiTnary irritation was only one, of the many symptoms which characterised the disease under treatment. The discovery was made too late in one of the cases, and the patient died: the gentleman in attendance being anx- ious to satisfy liimself as to the cause of death, obtained permission to make a post mortem examination. I was sent for, and found aU the morbid appearances I have de- scribed, as being the usual effects of acute peritonitis. The gentleman appeared to feel very much, and candidly acknow- ledged that he had made " a fatal mistake, by which he lost a sincere friend, and his own peace of mind." This case occun-ed some years ago m Mar/s-abbey; the medical gentleman who had the care of it, has been dead for some tune: in the other two cases the patients recovered. In all cases where the shglitest doubt exists, as to whether the urinary symptoms are of primary or secondary origin, the real state of the bladder should be ascertained by the introduction of a catheter. Sometimes the symptoms of hysteria simulate those of peritonitis so accurately, that it is not easy, in the first in- stance, to decide between them, and to amiounce, with con- fidence, the precise nature of the case. I have known tliree or four instances, in private practice, where hysteria was mistaken for peritonitis and treated as such; however, in all of them the mistake was discovered early; and the treat- ment altered, so that no bad consequences followed. TheCLINICAL SURGERY. symptoms which peritonitis and hysteria have occasionally iii common, are pain in the abdomen increased by pressure; and irritation in the urinary organs. When you are considering the nature of a doubtful case, the age and sex of the patient should be uppermost in your minds, as it is only in cases of females, at a certain penod of hfe, that a doubt is hkely to arise; the Idstory of the case and the concomitant symptoms wiU assit you in formmg an opinion. Suppose, for instance, that you learned on inquhy that the patient was subject to regular attacks of hysteria every month, characterised by involuntary fits of laughter or weeping, accompanied by a sense of suffocation, as if there were sometliing hke a baH in the tlu:oat, and that the usual period for such an attack had arrived; however, on the present occasion none of her former symptoms exist; but, she complains bitterly of pain m the abdomen and back Well, the inference you are to di-aw fi'om sucn a history is, that the present attack is of hysterical origm, and only a modification of her former complamt. ii m addition to tliis information, you ^vill find the countenance expanded, with a total absence of aU febrile sjnnptoms, you may rest satisfied that the case is hysteria, and nothnig else The passing of a gall-stone through the biliary ducts, is productive of symptoms wliich bear some resemblance o those of peritoneal inflammation; such as pam m the ab- domen, accompanied by sickness of stomach and vomi ing; but the liistory of the case, the precise situation of the pain, its occasional intermission, the state of the pulse and absence of fever will render the diagnosis tolerably easy. It is said that dysentery may be mistaken for peritonitis;LECTURE VII. 169 M'ell, so it may, by a person very ignorant of tlie symptoms peculiar to botli these diseases. The only symptoms they have in common, are pain in the abdomen, attended with symptomatic fever; but when you compare the two cases the resemblance quickly disappears. The great prostration of strength, the sunken countenance, and small hard pulse, which are usually present, in aU weU-marked cases of perito- nitis, are seldom to be met with in dysentery, except when the disease is very far advanced; but either the absence or presence of the pathognomonic symptoms of dysentery, viz., tenesmus and muco-sanguineous discharges, decide the na- ture of the case, beyond the possibiHty of a doubt. Cholera is another disease with which peritonitis might be confounded, inasmuch as in both cases, we have prostra- tion of strength, sunken countenance, perhaps vomiting, and a small pulse. Although these symptoms are common to both complaints, still there is, in my opinion, very little danger of any person, at aU conversant with the diseases to which the abdominal viscera are hable, making so egre- gious a mistake. In peritonitis you will have febrile symp- toms; in cholera you will not. In peritonitis the ab- domen is tumid, tympanitic, and very painful; in cholera it is flat, and, generally speaking, not painful, although somewhat tender on pressure. In peritonitis the bowels are usually confined; whilst in cholera frequent copious Hquid discharges, constitute a leading symptom. In perito- nitis there are no cramps whatever; whereas, in cholera, they exist to a most distressing extent. Gentlemen, when you are about to treat a case of acute peritonitis, you should bear in mind, that it is one of tlie most dangerous diseases to which the human body is sub- rCMKICAL SURGERY. 170 ject; that it is purely inflammatory in its nature, and if not promptly met at the onset, by the most rigid antiphlogistic treatment, will quickly end in the patient's death. Perito- nitis is, in fact, a disease, which when once fully estabhshed, its natural course is, progressively onwards, from bad to worse ; and if not quickly arrested by art, nature must yield to its destructive influence. This being the case, you cannot be too prompt in adopting those measures which ex- perience has proved to be the most efficacious in arresting its progress. Tor this purpose, you should commence the treatment by taking blood from the arm; the quantity to be determined by the constitution of the patient, the stage, and violence of the attack, and the effect of the bleed- ing. You are told, by writers and lecturers, that when about to bleed a person under these cu-cumstances, you should place hun in the erect posture, and that the effect mil be much greater than if the same amount of blood were taken whilst lying down. This though true in theory, is seldom practicable: when the patient is seriously at- tacked, he cannot bear to sit up in the bed; every attempt to move, increases the pain, and tends to aggravate the disease. Under these circumstances, you must use your own discretion in choosing a position for your patient, bemg guided very much by the circumstances of each indindual case. If you should be called on in the early stage of the complaint, perhaps the cautious adoption of the erect pos- ture would be the best plan of proceeding; but if, on the other hand, you should not see the case until the disease is far advanced, any attempt to place the patient then, in the erect posture would prove injm-ious. When a yomig practi- tioner mentions bleeding in cases of peritoneal inflammation,171 lECTURE Vll. the proposal is often received with, doubt by the parties most interested. The patient himself feels weak, and his friends, judging partly from his representations, and partly from the pale sunlcen state of the countenance, become sceptical as regards the skill of the medical attendant. However, you should not be dissuaded from doing what you beheve the state of the case demands, by any foolish remonstrance on the part of the patient, or his friends; if they show an unwillingness to allow you to act according to your judg-ment, insist on a consultation, and if this should be refused, retire from the attendance altogether, and leave the responsibility of the case in other hands. If you should be allowed to act on yom- own judgment, why the sooner you bleed the patient the better. Make a large oiifice in the vein, so as to take away the blood in a fuU stream; by this mode of proceeding there will be a much better chance of causing fainting, than if it came away slowly. The effect of the bleeding on the pulse is very remarkable: you wiU often find it becommg soft and expanded, wliilst the blood is flowing. This you are to consider as a change for the better, which impHes that the circulating system is being reHeved from the oppressed condition under which it suf- fered. The bleeding sliould be continued until a serious impression is made on the patient; although it is by no means easy, in such a case, to produce absolute fainting; stm symptoms approacliing to that state mO. occiu-; such as languor of the eyes, yawning, cold perspiration on the face, and slow respiration, with occasional deep sighs. The pam ]s usually suspended during this state of things; and if the case shall end favoiu-ably, the probabihty is, that it ^all never retiu:n with the same degree of acutene^ss which previously existed.CLINICAL SURGERY. 172 Having thus bled the patient, you should next consider the best, and most efficacious method of freeing the bowels ■with as little delay as possible. Tor tliis purpose, I believe the best medicine you could select, in the first instance, would be eight or ten grains of calomel, with two or tliree of aromatic powder, wliich may be given, either in the form of powder or bolus. If the sickness of stomach be not very great, you may direct a purging mixture, consisting of an ounce of sulphate of magnesia, dissolved in six ounces of infusion of roses; two table-spoonsful to be taken every hour until it operates, beginnuig an hour after the bolus. You should leave directions to have the abdomen stuped for fifteen or twenty minutes every second hour, with flan- nel cloths, wrung out of a warm decoction of poppyheads, or chamomile flowers; and make up your mind to see the patient again in tliree or four hours. If you should find him, at your second visit pretty much in the same state as when you left, and the medicine, although retained on the stomach, had not operated, you should then order a terebinthinate enema; but if, on the other hand, the pain had returned with its former acuteness, and the pulse acquired the contracted hard feel it had before, and that you found the blood, which you had taken at your former visit, both cupped and buffed, you should then un- hesitatmgly repeat the bleeding, and the purgative medicines also, if necessary. If it should so happen, that you find at your second visit the pain has returned only in a slight degree, and that the bolus and mixture had acted freely on the bowels, and the pulse, although still quick, is not very hard, you will have reason to tliink the dis- ease has, in part, been arrested in its progress, andLECTURE VII. 173 that it will be removed ultimately by judicious treatment. Topical bleeding, by means of leeches, should now be adopted, and calomel and opium given internally : two grains of calomel and half a graiu of opium, made into a pill, and given every tliird hour until the system shall be brought under the specific influence of mercury, will, perhaps, be the most useful combination you can prescribe. The day after the leeching, a large bhster ought to be applied over the ab- domen. Some physicians object to the practice of apply- ing a bhster over the leech-bites, on the ground that the flies may be absorbed and produce strangury; whilst others, with a view to prevent such an occurrence, sapiently recom- mend bits of silver paper to be placed on the leech-bites, and then the bhster to be apphed over all! This is an absurd way of trifling with such an important subject, and I mention it merely for the purpose of cautioning you against being in- fluenced in the treatment of so formidable a disease, by any such frivolous and secondary considerations. If you tliink a bhster likely to prove useful in such a case, apply it by all means, and without the shghtest hesitation. The fact of the leech-bites being present should not deter you from ap- plying it directly over them; on the contrary, as it is, chiefly, on the principle of counter-irritation that blisters prove useful, the fact of there being leech-bites beneath, is calculated to increase their efficacy. Although you may succeed in curing a bad case of peri- tonitis, the recovery is always tedious, not only on account of the impression made on the patient's constitution by the disease itseh, but also by the treatment which was necessary for its removal. You should, therefore, be very careful in preventing your patients, making too free in any way which174 CLINICAL SURGERY. might be conducive to a relapse^ for many days after all the symptoms have disappeared. Gentlemen, it is not the province of a lecturer on chnical surgery to enter into an elaborate discussion of the various forms of peritonitis, described in systematic works on the practice of medicine. No; it is my duty to give you as much practical information as I can, in the shortest possible space of time, and with tliis object iu view, I wiU now pro- ceed mth the consideration of wounds of the abdomen. Wounds of the abdomen are usually divided, in reference to the parts interested, into those wliich aifect the parietes, those wliich penetrate, and those wliicli not only enter the cavity, but injure its contents. Adopting this view of the subject, let us, in the first instance, inquire if there be any thing peculiar in the composition of the abdominal parietes, which renders their wounds more intricate than injuries of the same extent, in other parts of the body. The only anatomical peculiarity worthy of recollection, is the great quantity of tendinous, or aponeurotic structure, employed in forming the anterior and lateral walls, and the respective situations of the epigastric and mammary arteries. Tendi- nous structure not being higlily endowed with vitality, is, when injured, slow in taking on inflammatory action; but when inflammation once becomes estabhshed, its effects are often very serious. In accordance with tins doctrine, should you be called on to attend a person who had received a punctured wound of the abdomen, wliich had merely pene- trated the sheath of the recti muscles, you are not to \dew it in the light of a trifling accident, for, it may so happen that inflammation Avill set in some days after the infliction of the injury: such being the case, you must perceive theLECTURE VII. 176 necessity of being guarded in youi- prognosis and vigilant in yom- attention. In a case of tliis kind, the wound having been regularly dressed in the first instance, the patient should be kept perfectly quiet in bed for some time; and in the event of his complaining of pain or tenderness in the pai-t affected, in addition to the usual constitutional antiphlogistic remedies, leeches should be apphed in great numbers, with a view to prevent suppuration. Should you fail in your efforts to accomphsh this object, warm fomen- tations are the most agreeable, and I beheve the best apphcations you can employ. Here, I wish to remmd you, that when an abscess forms beneath a fibrous membrane, the constitutional symptoms do not suddenly subside when suppuration takes place, as in other cases, nor will the mat- ter arrive at the surface as soon as if it were otherwise cu-cumstanced. The difference does not appear to me to depend so much on the mechanical resistance, given by the fibrous texture, as on the scanty supply of absorbents which it receives; be this as it may, it is sufficient for our present purpose to recollect the important fact; and that in practice, we ought to assist nature in bringing the matter to the surface, by makiag a free incision into the tumour, as soon as we are satisfied that suppuration has taken place. In forming an opinion on this subject, you should be guided by the length of time the patient has been ill, the (edema- tous feel of the tumour, and the occurrence of rigors, which in aU. probability wiU have taken place, should suppuration be estabhshed. In the event of an abscess having formed within the sheath of the rectus muscle, you have something more to apprehend than the mere irritation resulting from the confinement of matter; for, inasmuch as the sheath176 CLINICAL SURGERY, is deficient posteriorly, at its inferior third, it is quite possi- ble that the matter, being firmly resisted in other directions, may gradually work its way downwards, until it shall have arrived at the peritoneum, and there by its presence produce inflammation of this membrane. Your knowledge of anatomy, the situation of the injury, and the symptoms of hemorrhage, will be sufficient to guide you in forming an opinion as to whether the epigastric or mammary arteries have suffered or not, in a case of abdo- minal wound. I remember having heard the late Mr. CoLLES relate a very interesting case of this description, which fell under Ms observation some years ago : as well as I can at present call to mind, the leading features of the case were pretty neai'ly as follow :—A carpenter, wliilst walking, stumbled, and fell upon the edge of a chisel, which he had imprudently tteust into his breeches-pocket; he was brought to Stevens' hospital immediately after the accident, and on examination a wound, corresponding in size with the shai-p extremity of the chisel, was discovered in the lower part of the abdomen. The patient, who was, on liis arrival at the hospital, pale and exhausted, gradually became weaker, cold, and pulseless, and in the course of a few hours after admission expired. On opening the body, some hours after death, the cavity of the peritoneum was found distended with blood, and the epigastric axtery completely di\nded. Thus, then, gentlemen, you perceive fi'om what I have stated, that wounds of the abdomen, although compara- tively superficial, may be productive of the worst results. Mr. CoLLEs's patient might, in my opinion, have died of hemorrhage, although the cliisel had never penetrated the peritoneum.177 LECTURE VII. Let us now inquire what are tlie bad consequences to be apprehended from a wounding instrument having entered what is usually called the " cavity" of the abdomen, with- out injmiug either the viscera or any important blood vessel. Here, I wish you to bear in mind, that the term " cavity," as apphed by anatomists to the natural state of the head, thorax, and abdomen, is not, in the ordinary ac- ceptation of the word, critically correct, inasmuch as the containing, and the parts contained, bear a strict proportion to each other; consequently, there can be no_ vacuum in the hving body. Hence it is, that we frequently find wounds in these regions, giving rise to visceral protrusions such as hernia cerebri, hernia pulmonalis, hernia intes- tinahs, &c., &c. In the case of the abdomen, the relation wliich exists between its walls and contents is not of a pas- sive nature; on the contrary, during respiration the floating viscera must be kept in a state of constant motion, by the alternate action of the abdominal and levatores ani muscles, on the one hand, and the diaphragm on the other. Such being the case, we can readily understand ^vhy it is that penetrating wounds are usually complicated with protrusions of the omentum and intestines; the natural lubricity of their serous surfaces supphes an additional explanation of this well known fact. Let us now suppose a case in which a penetrating wound of the abdomen has been inflicted, and that portions of in- testine and mesentery protrude, and inquire what the surgeon ought to do when called on ? He should, in the first instance, ascertain by a careful examination whether the protruded intestine had been wounded or not, and when satisfied in the negative, he should at once proceed I 2178 CLINICAL SURGERY. to return it into the abdomen. Tor the accomphsliment of this object^ the patient should be placed on his back, with his knees drawn up, and liis head and chest somewhat elevated and supported by pillows. By tliis posture the abdominal muscles will become relaxed, and the prominence formed by the bodies of the lumbar vertebrae diminished, and consequently, the abdominal space increased as far as possible, for the reception of the protruded viscera. This preliminary step having been taken, the surgeon should now take hold of the displaced parts and di-aw out a httle more of the intestine, with a view to break down any adhe- sions which may have formed between it and the margins of the wound; however, if he were called in immediately after the accident, and consequently, before inflammation or adlie- sion could be estabHshed, this mode of proceeding would be quite unnecessary, and he may at once commence the work of reduction. This object is best accomphshed by pusliing in first, the part wliich came out last, with the index- finger of one hand, wliich should not be withdrawn, mitil replaced by the corresponding finger of the other. In this way the practitioner should persevere with the utmost pa- tience and coolness, returning portion after portion, until the entire volume disappears. Wlien you meet with a case of tliis description, if you be not very cii'cumspect you may commit a great mistake, by supposing you are returning the protruded parts into the abdomen, when in reality they are passing either into the sheath of the rectus muscles, or into what is still a more probable, although not a less dan- gerous, receptacle—namely, between the posterior surface of the abdominal muscles and theii- peritoneal lining. Here, I wish to inform you, of what occurred to a patient of179 LECTURE VII. mine, who was admitted into this hospital under the follow- ing circumstances. A man of the name of Sahnon, a butcher by trade, wlnlst in an altercation with liis wife, she stabbed him in the abdomen with a narrow knife, with which he had been killing a calf; he was conveyed to the hospital immediately after the infliction of the wound, and Mr. O'Reilly and I, saw him soon after admission. We found liim suffering from great anxiety of nund and apprehension of danger, with about nine inches of small intestine hang- ing from the wound, wliich was not more than three-fourths of an inch in length ; we at once set about returning the protruded bowel, and after much trouble, and forty minutes perseverance, we succeeded in putting it out of sight. The hps of the external wound were then brought together, and retained in this position by adhesive plaster, compress, and bandage. This man died of peritoneal inflammation forty- eight hours after the accident, and on examining the body I found a great portion of the intestiue winch had been protruded, placed between the abdominal muscles and the peritoneum. Here a question arises as to whether the in- testine might not have been, in the first instance, fairly introduced into the cavity of the peritoneum, and subse- quently forced out through the wound in this membrane; and the wound in the integuments being closed, might it not iasinuate itseK into the situation in which it was found? In support of tliis view of the case, I must state that there was no appearance whatever of strangulation exhibited by the incarcerated intestine: on the other hand, I do not tliink it probable that the action of the muscles of respira- tion would be sufficient to force the peritoueiun from its180 CLINICAL SURGERY. attaclunent to the abdominal muscles; I am, therefore, in- clinecl to the opinion that the protruded parts were never completely reduced, and that the detaching of the perito- neum, and consequent formation of the unnatural recess wliich contauied the intestine, were the result of our efforts to effect their reduction. Wlien the protruded viscera have been safely restored to their natural residence, some surgeons are very partial to the employment of sutures, in keeping the hps of the wound firmly together, in order to prevent a recurrence of the protrusion; although I am ready to admit the force of this reasoning when the woimd is so extensive, that it cannot be effectually closed otherwise, yet, I am convuiced we should have recourse to them as seldom as possible. It is a fact weU known to surgeons of experience, that sutures, when introduced into tendinous parts, are apt to excite a bad description of inflammation; and if inserted into mus- cular structure, spasms and convulsions are the usual con- sequences. Let us now suppose that the wound has been properly dressed, and inquire what are the dangerous effects wliich the practitioner is to apprehend, and the best method of avertmg then: occurrence, or of treating them, should they unfortunately take place ? He should calculate upon the supervention of peritoneal inflammation as the natural consequence of such an injury; accordingly, the antiphlo- gistic plan of treatment should be put in force, in the fullest sense of the term, as soon as the patient shall have recovered from the shock of the accident, with a view of preventing, if possible, the estabhslmient of tliis formidable affection. I have mentioned to you that calomel and opium are considered, after bleeding, the best remedies we canLECTURE VIT. '81 commaud, when peritonitis has actuaUy taken place, but it is not usual to employ them beforehand, as we do blood- letting, on prophylactic principles.CHAPTER YIII. LECTUEE YIII. Wounds of the abdomen continued;—Injuries of the intestines:—Extravasations ;—Cases and observations. Gentlemen, At our last meeting I occupied your attention with some observations on peritonitis, and punctured wounds of the abdomen; on the present occasion, I intend entering at some length into the consideration of injuries of the abdo- minal viscera and their consequences. When penetrating wounds of the abdomen affect the viscera, or large blood-vessels, there is much reason to ap- prehend extravasations of some kind, into the cavity of the peritoneum, such as blood, bile, urine, or the contents of the ahmentary canal. Effusions of blood are more likely to result from wounds of the solid than those of the hollow viscera; for tliis obvious reason, that the former ai'e more abundantly supphed with blood, than the latter. The cir- cumstances which ought to be taken into consideration, and guide youi' judgment in forming an opinion, as to whether blood had been extravasated or not, in a case of abdominal wound, are, the lustory of the accident, the particular situa- tion in which it occurred, and the concomitant sjonptoms. Eor instance, if a man received a stab of a sword in the region of the hver, or spleen, and the usual symptoms of internal hemorrhage, such as prostration of strength, pahdityLECTURE VIII. 183 of countenance, coldness of the skin, and feeble pulse, together with an unnatural degree of fdness in the neigh- bourhood of the injury, quickly followed the infliction of the wound, there could be Httle doubt that extravasation of blood to a considerable amount had taken place. What should the surgeon do in such an embarrassing case as tliis ? The practice recommended the present day, is to open a vein in the arm at once, with a view to produce syncope as speedQy as possible, and in this way interrupt the bleeding, and afl'ord time for the coagulation of the blood already efi"used. The patient should be kept perfectly quiet and cool, and closely watched, lest in the event of reaction taking place, it might be necessary to have re- course to the lancet a second, or even a third time. Should a recovery be effected in a case of tliis description, the fol- lowing pathological phenomena must have occurred in the neighbourhood of the wound. The effused blood having first coagulated, afforded a sort of barrier, which was suffi- cient, under the circumstances, to resist the feeble impulse of the heart's action, and in this way arrest the bleeding in the first instance : in the course of a few hours inflamma- tion set in, and the consequent effusion of lymph, at the mouths of the wounded vessels, superseded the further ne- cessity of the blood remaining any longer; accordingly, the absorbents began to affect its removal, whilst the wounded vessels were being closed up by the adhesive inflammation. I have been thus particular in detailing the various changes, which take place during the curative process, in order to show you the erroneous nature of the practice adopted by the old surgeons, in such cases as I have been describing. They recommended in all cases of internal184 CLINICAL SURGERY. hemorrhage, caused by wounds, whether the extravasation had taken place into the thorax or abdomen, a free incision to be made into the part engaged, with a view to effect its removal; and in some instances they went so far as to ad- vise wasliing out the cavity, in order that a single particle of blood might not be left beliind. It is scarcely neces- sary to point out to you, the mischievous tendency of such absurd advice; you must perceive from what I have already stated, that the effused blood is useful in arresting the hemorrhage, consequently, whatever tends to its premature displacement wiU be favom'able to the continuance, or renewal of the bleeding; and, again, the pernicious prac- tice of injecting fluids into serous cavities, for the purpose of wasliing out blood, which is, comparatively speaking, a mild substance, and removeable by the action of the ab- sorbents, is so opposed to the laws of the animal economy, the principles of surgery, and common sense, that it would be an idle waste of time to enter into a formal refutation of a doctrine, wliich should never have been promulgated, and which has long since become obsolete. Extravasations of bile, urine, feces, or chyle, into the cavity of the peritoneum, are usually productive of fatal con- sequences ; the two former, in consequence of their fluidity and acrimonious qualities, are much more likely to become diffused, and excite peritoneal inflammation than the latter; however, it is a fact well known, that the lioUow viscera may be extensively wounded, and no escape of their contents whatever take place: in proof of the truth of tliis statement I could relate to you many cases reported in the works of military surgeons, but tliis I deem unnecessary, as the point in question is generally admittted. I recollect185 LECTURE VIII. oue very interesting case myself, winch occm-red some years back, a few miles from Dublin, in wliich tliere was good reason to suppose tlie intestines bad been wounded, although no extravasation of their contents took place. The case was that of an unfortunate man who attempted to commit suicide by throwing himseK on the point of a smaU sword : the instiaunent entered the abdomen near the umbilicus, passed chrectly backwards and projected some inches through the integuments, in the neighbourhood of the spine. The late Mr. Thomas Eoney was immediately sent for, and on liis arrival, the friends of the patient stated to him, that it was " with much difficulty they removed the sword, it was so firmly fixed in the body." Mr. Eoney tliinking deception or misrepresentation was possible, in- quired into, and carefully examined all the circumstances of the case : he found the sword stained with blood from one end to the other; the anterior and posterior wounds in the integuments corresponded, and after the fullest investigation he was convinced of the truth of the original statement. The patient was treated antiphlogistically on prophylactic principles, and strange to relate, recovered in a few days Avithout having had any bad symptoms whatever. Let us now inquire why the contents of the intestines do not always escape when their parietes are completely divided ? Eor a satisfactory explanation of this important fact, the profession are much indebted to Mr. Travers, of London, whose valuable work on " Injuries of the Intes- tines" I strongly recommend you to read. According to this gentleman's experiments and observations, the follow- ing are the chief steps taken by nature to prevent extrava- sation in cases of tliis description.186 CLINICAL SUKGEHY. On the removal of the wounding instrument, the lipa of the wound in the intestine become everted by the action of the muscular fibres, so that the tliick mucous membrane assists in filling up the breach. At the same moment this is being accomplished, the neighbouring convolution of in- testine is forced by the action of the muscles of respiration into the situation previously occupied by the wounding instrument, and in tliis way co-operates with the everted membrane in p eventing immediate,effusion. In the course of a few hours inflammation will be estabhshed, and lymph shed from the serous surface around the wovuid; this lymph becomes quickly organised, and the aperture in the intestine permanently closed by the adliesion of the ad- joining convolution. Thus, then, you may perceive, that the lips of the wound never become united directly with each other, as in cases of simple incised wounds in the in- teguments and elsewhere; and that it is through the medium of the peritoneal coat of its neighbour that the wounded intestine is rendered capable of performing its wonted functions. When the hollow viscera become ruptured from falls or blows on the abdomen, or the passage of a heavy body, such as a cart, or carriage over the trunk, extravasation is much more likely to occur, than in the case of a wound;— for this obvious reason, that the violence is continued after the rupture has taken place, and forces the contents of the injured viscus out through the opening. Severe injuries of the abdomen are usually succeeded by sickness of the stomach, prosti-atiou of strength, paleness of countenance, feeble pulse, and in some instances a discliarge of bloodj either from the stomach or bowels. \Ylien tliis187 LECTURE VIII. last symptom exists, there is mucli reason to suppose that lesion of the alimentary canal has taken place. In such a case tlie practitioner should studiously avoid purgative medicines; lest by their action an extravasation of feculent matter might be produced. Ojpium is the medicine best calculated to be of service m such a case, both by relieving pain and allaying local irritation in the wounded intestine. Let us now suppose a case of penetrating wound of the abdomen, in M^hich a portion of intestine, cut completely across to the mesentery, presents itself externally, and in- quire what the surgeon ought to do under such circum- stances ? Gentlemen, you will meet with much discrepancy of opinion when you read the various works wliich treat of this subject, as to what is the best line of practice to adopt in such a case as I now submit for consideration. Some of the old surgeons, amongst whom Ramdhor stands foremost, recommend that the superior portion of the di- vided intestine should be introduced some distance into the inferior one, and retaiaed there by means of sutures. The objections to this mode of proceeding are manifest and in- controvertible; in fact fhe practice in question was con- ceived not only in crude notions of mechanism, but in ignorance of the principles of pathology. It woidd be utterly impossible to introduce one portion of intestine within the other; unless a separation between the the mesentery and the former, were first effected; and this could not be done without destroying some of the mesenteric arteries, and thereby causing a serious hemorrhage. Again, the dilRculty of saving, or otherwise securing, in a satisfac- tory manner, the invaginated portion, must be very great; but, above all, the expectation that a serous and a mucousCLINICAL SURGERY. 188 membrane would become incorporated, by the ordinary process of adhesion, is an idea not entertained by any well-informed surgeon of tlie present day. Mr. John Bell would con- nect the detacbed pieces by a point or two, of interrupted suture : SiE, Astley Cooper and Doctoe Thompson would employ numerous points, in order to prevent effusion; whilst Mr. Tuavees, for the same reason, recommends that the hps of the intestinal wound should be carefully brought together mth a needle and tliread of silk. TMs being done the thi-ead is to be cut short, and the intestine returned into the abdomen, and the external wound dressed in the man- ner I have already described. You will naturally ask what ultimately becomes of that portion of the ligature which remains connected with the wounded intestine ? According to the experiments and observations of Dr. Thompson, Mr. Travees, and others, the hgature will be disposed of ia the following manner. Some hours after the replacement of the injured bowel; inflammation becomes estabhshed, and lymph is thrown out in the neighbourhood of the wound, in suf&cient quantity to cover the hgature exter- nally, and, at the same time, to connect the contiguous portions of sound intestine to the injured one. In the course of some time ulcerative absorption -will take place under the hgature, and proceed from the serous to- wards the mucous membrane, mitil it will make its way into the cavity of the intestine, and finally pass out of the system with the ordinary contents of the bowels. You are not to suppose that the lips of the wound in the intestine ever become directly united with each other, so as to have the continuity of the canal re-established precisely in the same manner it originally existed. Such is not the fact;189 WOUNDS OF THE STOMACH. tlie re-union of the divided portions is effected by the con- nexion formed between them and the surrounding parts, tlu'ough the medium of adhesive inflammation. The opinions entertained, and the practice recommended, by the writers I have just named, are those generally approved of, and adopted by the surgeons of the present day. Gentlemen, I now request your attention whilst I read an abstract report of a few cases, selected from the case- book of the hospital, for the purpose of illustrating the leading points of the doctrine which I have sketched for your consideration. CASE. WOUNDS OF THE STOMACH. John Lawless, aged 26 years, was admitted into the hos- pital at nine o'clock, p. m., on the 28th of December, in consequence of having been stabbed with a knife by liis bro- ther, with whom he had been quarrelling. On admission he appeared to labour under the conjoint effects of the wound and drunkenness : he was weak, with pale sunken countenance, and quick pulse; he vomited repeatedly, a considerable quantity of blood, mixed with food. The wound was situated near the umbibcus; it was about an inch and a-half in length; and thi'ough it a piece of intes- tine, of a pinkish colour, protruded. The patient was put to bed, and an attempt made to reduce the intestine; but this it was found impossible to accompHsh in a perfect or satisfactory manner: it could be returned with moderate facihty, through the wound in the integuments, but instead of passing directly backwards, through the opening in the peritoneum, and thence into the abdomen, it went into aCLINICAL SURGERY. 190 poucli, or recess, formed between this membrane and the abdominal muscles. During the efforts made to restore the intestine, the patient was very restless and unmanageable, holding his breath, and otherwise resisting the efforts made to relieve liim. It was now deemed advisable to have blood taken from his arm, and when about twenty ounces were drawn, he became quite exhausted and pulseless; the skin being covered over with cold perspiration. Whilst in this state, the protruded intestine was retm-ned into the cavity of the abdomen without any difficulty whatever : the hps of the wound were kept together by two points of suture, sup- ported by a compress, and bandage, wliich were apphed with a moderate degree of tightness. This being done, the patient was placed on liis back, with pillows under his head, shoulders, and hams, with a view to relax the abdominal muscles as much as possible. Vdtli.—He slept but Httle during the night; vomited three or four times; he now complains of exquisite pain in the abdomen, which obliges him to scream whenever he makes a full inspiration; he cannot bear to be touched or moved in the shghtest degree; the countenance is sharp and anxious, tongue brown; excessive tliirst; and no se- cretion of mine; he was bled again, and ordered a grain of opium and two of calomel every hour. Two o'clock, p.m.—The bleeding produced fainting; he has been exceedingly restless since the last ^asit, and suf- fered much from thirst and vomiting; the bowels have been moved, but no secretion of urine has taken place; at present he lies in rather a torpid state; \vith mucli heaWng of the chest; the respirations are forty in a minute; tlie pulse is exceedingly quick and almost imperceptibly small.191 WOUNDS OF THE STOMACH. 30///, 9 o'clock, a. m.—He died at six o'clock yesterday evening. Autopsy.—On examining the body, sixteen hours after death, it presented the following appearance:—There Avas a small quantity of blood, but no food, effused into the ca- vity of the abdomen : a wound, about half an inch in length, was found in the stomach, situated two inches from the pyloric orifice, and, consequently, much above the level of the external wound. There was no other viscus wounded, and the usual effects of peritoneal inflammation were but imperfectly marked. Remarks.—There are a few points connected with this interesting case, to which I request your attention. In the first place, it may appear to you somewhat strange, that the stomach should be the only viscus wounded, when the knife entered the abdomen so low down as the lunbilicus ; however, when you call to mind that the situation occupied by the stomach must, in a great measure, be determined by the various degrees of plenitude or vacuity, to which it is hable, that wliich, at first sight, appeared abstruse and un- accountable, becomes at once simple and inteUigible. Now, be it remembered, that this unfortunate man had been drinking before the accident occurred, and that he subse- quently vomited food as well as blood. Under these cir- cumstances, it is obvious that the stomach was distended, and consequently encroached on the umbilical region, at the moment the wound was inflicted, but when discharging Its contents it contiacted, and thereby withdrew itself from the neighbourhood of the external wound. The fact, that none of the contents having escaped into the cavity of the peritoneum, is a strong proof of the cor-]92 CLINICAL SURGEUY. rectness of tlie explanation I gave you, when speaking on the subject of abdominal extravasations, and the steps taken by nature to prevent their occurrence, in cases of wounds of the hollow viscera. The influence wliich the bleeding had in facilitating the return of the protruded mtestme, reminds us of what we frequently see take place m cases of strangulated hernia. The state of syncope, to winch the patient was reduced by loss of blood, had the effect of pro- ducing general relaxation of the system, and consequently of overcoming the muscular action, wlhch ongmaUy forced out the bowel, and subsequently resisted its return. It has been noted down in the report, that the usual effects of peritoneal inflammation were but " imperfectly marked 1 attribute tHs circumstance to the early dep etion the patient underwent, and the short thne he survived after the accident. You may reeoUect that the wound itself gave nse to considerable hemorrhage, and in addition forty or fifty ounces of blood were taken by the lancet in the course o a few hours afterwards. On the whole, I would accoun forhis death bv Baying, that the constitution sjnnpatheticaUy sank :tnLVe-of the loss of blood, and the serious m^ury done to a very important organ, rather than state that pe- ritoneal inflammation was the inmiediate cause of dissolution. CASE. CEUSHIIs-G OV THE ABDOMEN AND UUPTUUE OF THE COSCUM. is The next case to *ch I wish to call your atovrion that of Jolm Donohoe, a drayman, who, on the 6th of Juh,■WOUNDS OK THE STOMACH. 193 whilst leading his horse through the street, Avas caught and severely crushed between the wheel of liis own, and that of another di-ay, wliich were passing in opposite dii'ections. Soon after the accident he wallced to the hospital, where he anived at two o'clock, p.m. Having got an anodyne draught, and some general instructions, he wallced home and went to bed. In the course of the evening he was seized with violent paui in the abdomen and vomiting, which con- tinued during the night. On the morning of the 7th he was carried to the hospital, being now totally unable to walk J liis countenance was pale, anxious, and indicative of great suffering; the skin cold and clammy; the pulse could not be felt at the wrist: the abdomen was tense, and could not bear the shghtest degree of pressure : the vomiting had ceased, and he was incessantly tormented with an insatiable desire for cold drink. The usual treatment for such distress- ing symptoms was employed, but in vain; the poor fellow died at eight o'clock the next morning; it being twenty- four hours after admission, and forty-two after the receipt of the injury. Autopsy.—Qxv opening the body, four hours after death, tiie following appearances were discovered in the cavity of the abdomen.—the intestines were distended with flatus, and the peritoneal coat of a bright rose-colour, except where covered by lymph, wliich was shed in gi-eat quantity. The caecum was dark-coloui'ed and thickened m its coats; it presented at its lower extremity an aperture with nregu- lar ragged edges, merely of sufficient size to admit the ex- tremity of the httle finger. There was no extravasation of feculent matter. Observatiom.~\i may appear remarkable that in thisCLINICAL SURGEllY. 194 case the patient was able to walk to, and from the hospital soon after the accident occurred; and that it was not until some hours afterwards, he was attacked with bad symptoms; whereas, in the case of Lawless, violent symptoms were es- tabhshed the moment the wound was inflicted, and conti- nued without intermission until he died. In reference to this point I wish to observe, that it is a fact very generally admitted, that the degree of shock imparted to the consti- tution in consequence of injuries of the abdomen, is in the direct ratio of their relation to the solar plexus; that is to say, the nearer the injury is, to that important and \dtal part, the more deeply will the constitution sympatliise at the moment of the accident, and the greater the danger to be apprehended, as to the ultimate termination of the case. If you acquiesce in tlie correctness of this doctrine, you can easily comprehend why Lawless, who was wounded in the stomach, got no quarter from the moment of the acci- dent, whilst Donohoe, whose coecum was ruptured, did not suffer from bad symptoms for some hours after the infliction of the injury, when peritoneal inflammation set in and be- came the immediate cause of death. I wiH now read a case which tends to support the vahdity of the opinion I have already expressed, as regards the uifluence Avhich the relation of the solar plexus to the local mischief may have, in a case of nbdominal injury. CASE. CRUSHING OF THE ABDOMEN, EUPTUllE OF THE DUODENUM. On the im of lull/, Ehza Healy, aged four years, was thrown down in the street by a dray, the wheel of wliichWOUNDS OF THE STOMACH. 195 passed over her body; she was carried to the hospital in about an hour afterwards. On admission, she was exceed- ingly weak and exhausted; the countenance pale and the eyes sunken; the pulse weak and almost imperceptible; she seemed unwilling to answer questions; was extremely rest- less, constantly tossing her limbs about in the bed j she drank greedily and had frequent retclung; but nothing came up from the stomach; there was no tenderness of the abdo- men. She gradually became more and more exhausted, and expired in four hours after her admission into the hos- pital. Aidopsy.—On examination twelve hours after death, the peritoneum presented a healthy appearance; but a few cherry-stones, mixed with alimentary matter, were found in its cavity. When these substances were removed, a small rent was discovered in the descending portion of the duo- denum, tlirough which they had escaped. The lower ex- tremity of the spleen was also ruptured; there was, how- ever, very httle blood effused; aU the other viscera were perfectly natural. Remarks.—You will observe that this was a case in which the injury was situated quite in the neighbourhood of the solar plexus, and that the patient never reco- vered from the first shock of the accident; the immediate cause of death cannot, therefore, be faii'ly attributed either to loss of blood, or peritoneal inflammation. The next cases for consideration are those of ruptured bladder, but before we discuss them individually, I feel that a few observations on the subject of urinary extrava- sations in general, would not be misapphed, and that they may be instructive to the junior part of my hearers.196 CLINICAL SURGERY. Urinary extravasations may be suddenly iKoduced, either by blows or falls on the perineum j or on the abdomen, if the bladder should happen to be distended at the time of the accident. Tor example, let us suppose a case in which a sportsman, wliilst in the act of riding liis horse over a fence, loses his stirrup, and is accordingly, ttaoAvn for- ward on the perineum, with all Ids weight against the pommel of the saddle. Now, in a case of this description, there wiU be much reason to suspect that the urethra has been rup- tured, should blood pass from the external orifice soon after the accident, and the patient in attempting to pass water, feels as if he were emptying the bladder, yet, none escapes externaHy; and if the effort were attended with a sweUing of the scrotum, there can be no doubt but extravasation of urine has taken place. If this case be not promptly, and properly attended to, very bad consequences wiU most certainly ensue. The scrotum, and perhaps the perns and groins, will become enormously swollen, and assume a dark red colour; gangrenous spots will soon appear on the inte- guments, through wHch, should the patient survive, sloughs of the cellular membrane, saturated with a mixtiixe of urine, and ill-conditioned matter will escape. Whilst these changes are taking place locaUy, the patient's constitution suffers severely; symptomatic fever of a low type becomes quickly estabhshed; he feels hot and restless; complains of head-ache and tlurst; the tongue is covered with a brownish tenacious matter; the secretions generaly, ^re dhninished; and the pulse is very frequent. As the case advances towards a fatal termination, aU these sj-mp- toms become worse ; dchi-ium and coma set m; the tongue is now dry and contracted; the skin is often, at this stage covered over with a urinous sweat; the pulse becomesWOUNDS OF THE STOMACH. 197 exceedingly small and intermittent; and, finally, death closes the scene. If the description wliich I have now given of the usual effects of urinary extravasations, caused by a ruptm-e of the uretlira be correct, you must at once perceive the necessity of attention and decision on the part of the surgeon, and the fatal consequences wliich are likely to ensue, either from hesitation or ignorance. You should keep constantly in mind the pernicious effects produced by urine when, brought in contact with any of the living animal textures, ■ndth the exception of the skin, and mucous membranes. In accordance with this view of the subject, you should consider such a case as I have supposed to occur, to be one of local origin, but of a most dangerous tendency; and, therefore, when called on, apply yourselves, in the first in- stance, to the source of the evil. Taking this view of the subject, the practitioner, when satisfied that extravasation of urine has actually taken place into the cellular membrane of the perineum and scrotum, should introduce a metallic instrument of moderate size, as far as he can, without using much force, into the urethra: in all probability that will be down to the laceration, and then with a knife make a free incision through the tumefied parts until he has exposed the instrument, at the ruptiu-e in the urethra. By tliis means the urine already effused will be drained out of the cellular membrane, and in the event of more escaping from the aperture in the urethra, it will have a ready exit, and will not, therefore, become diffused through the neighbouiing parts. This being done, a gum elastic catheter should be substituted for the metallic in- strument, and passed, if found practicable, the entire way198 CLINICAL SURGERY. into the bladder, and retained there by a suitable aiipara- tus; a poultice should now be applied to the wound. Sup- puration, and probably sloughing of the ceHular membrane of the perineum and scrotum will subsequently take place to a greater or lesser extent. The catheter should not be removed except for the jjurpose of clearing away the calca- reous incrustations, wliich usually form on its vesical extre- mity, until the breach in the urethra shall be completely closed up. It sometimes happens that the catheter cannot be got past tie breach in the ui-ethra, in the first instance. Under such circumstances the wounds should be poulticed, and it is probable, that in the course of a few days when all swelling has subsided, the catheter can then be intro- duced. The constitutional ti-eatment of a case of tliis description must vary in different instances, and be determined in a great measure by the sort of person ^iffected; the character of the symptoms, and the stage of the complaint. Eor ex- ample ; if the accident happened to a plethoric young man, and was succeeded by the ordinary symptoms of inflamma- tory fever, there can be no doubt, as to the propriety of employing antipUogistic remedies in the first instance : but let us now suppose the case to be far advanced, and the scrotum and parts in the neighboui'hood, in a sloughy state. Here the constitutional sjonptoms change theii- character, and resemble those of tyjihus fever. Under such circumstances, the general plan of treatment, should consist chiefly, in the administration of stimulants and tonics, such as camphor, carbonate of ammonia, with small doses of opium. Mnd nutritious wine, such as claret; or "if the patient were in the habit of indulging largely, in malt drink.WOUNDS OF THE STOMACH. 199 porter or ale may be administered with advantage. I have never found bark m any form, useful in such caseSj nor do I beheve that it does much good in any case, where tlie tongue is covered with a dark dry crust, and the stomach disposed to nausea, or irritabilitj'. The best local appHca- tions for tliis stage of the case consist of warm dressings and fermenting poultices. I have now placed before you, in a familiar manner, the ordinary symptoms and treatment of a case of extravasation of mine, having suj)posed it to take place in a healthy young man, in consequence of a rupture in the m-etlua. Let us now take another view of the subject, by assuming that the accident happened to an old fox-hunter of dis- sipated habits, and broken-down constitution, and inqmre if the symptoms and treatment would, or ought to be, the same, in both cases ? There certainly, would be no re- markable difference in the local symptoms, and they should be treated by incision, the catheter and poultice, as in the former case; but the antiphlogistic plan of treatment would not be apphcable in this instance at aU ; on the contrary, the patient should be watched closely from the commence- ment, and as soon as symptoms of debility shall appear, the treatment I have recommended for the second stage of the former case, should be adopted at once, in the latter. You wiU occasionally meet in practice, cases of extrava- sation of urine in cliildren, and inasmuch as they differ in some respects, from those I have described in young and old men, I feel it necessary to make a few observations on this subject. The usual cause of extravasation in male children, is the giving way of the urethra, in consequence of a small calculus200 CLINICAL SURGElty, having become firmly impacted in it, when on its way from the bladder. The breach in the canal is sometimes effected by ruptm-e, in consequence of the great straining, resulting from the desire to pass water, M'hich is mechanically resisted by the foreign body; at other times the mucous membrane of the urethra may be removed by ulcerative absorption, which may take place without being preceded by the ad- hesive inflammation. My present object, however, is to apprise you of the fact, that the urine of cluldi-en, being cliiefly composed of water, does not, when extravasated, so speedily produce the same destructive consequences to the cellular membrane through which it is diffused, as in the cases of adults and old men. Wlien apprising you of tliis pathological fact, I do not wish to convey the idea that you should be less vigilant or attentive in the treatment, on that account; on the contrary, the cause of the extravasation (the calculus) should be removed as quickly as possible by a fi'ee incision made through the distended parts, in order to afford the effused urine an opportunity to oo&e out of the cellular tissue with wliich it has commingled. I have pro- nou.nced the word " ooze" emphatically; for, you must not expect that a sudden gush of urine will take place, when an incision is made into the part affected; this never occm-s unless the extravasated fluid, should happen to be confined in a circumscribed cavity, wliich does not often take place. After the incision, a poultice should be appHed; it will not be necessary to introduce a catheter in the case of a child ; and, indeed, it is a very fortunate circumstance that it can be dispensed with; for, even if it were absolutely necessary, it would not be possible to retain it quietly in the bladder. The observations which I have made, refer merely to suchRUPTURE OF THE BLADDER. 201 urinary extravasations as take place external to the abdomen and pelvis. I trust, I have said sufficient to prepare you for the fatal consequences, which are to be expected when similar effusions occur loithin these important cavities. With a view to illustrate this part of our subject, I beg to call your attention to a few cases of ruptured bladder. CASE. RUPTURE OF THE BLADDER PROM A BLOW. William Corry, aged 26 years, a currier by trade, was admitted into the hospital on the 19th of March, at 11 o'clock, P.M., under the following circmnstances:—When brought to the hospital he was stupidly drunk; his friends stated "that he had been drinking all the day, and that towards evening he suffered much from a desire, and incom- petency to pass water; that he subsequently got into a row, and that they beheved he had been struck on the belly with a heavy stick." It was impossible to obtain any infor- mation from liimself; but the resident medical officer recog- nised him as a person, who occasionally went to the hospital to get the urine drawn off; he being subject to attacks of retention when guilty of a debauch—the immediate cause being spasmodic strictm-e. On examining the abdomen, it did not appear to be particularly fuh or tense; hoAvever^ it was deemed expedient to introduce a catheter, but no urine came away. The stomach-piunp was next employed, and brought up a large quantity of fluid, which appeared to be a compound of whiskey and porter. He was now placed m bed, and ahnost immediately feU into a heavy sleep.I 202 CLINICAL SURGEEY. 20tli—He slept soundly during the night, but is at present very feverish; complains of pain in the lower part of the abdomen; is affected with headache, foul tongue, thii-st, heat of skin, quick pulse, and inabihty to pass water. The catheter was introduced, and about a pint of urine drawn off; he was bled, stuped, purged, &c. &c., yet, liis sufferings were mitigated only in a slight degree. The fever continued for two or tlu'ee days without undergoing any important change; at the end of this tune, the retelling, which had been moderate and occasional, became distressing and almost constant; the abdomen was very tumid, tympa- nitic, and tender to the touch; liis breathing hurried and oppressive; he was exceedmgly restless, and occasionally suffered from hiccough and a constant desu:e to pass water. These symptoms were met as the circumstances of the case seemed to indicate; blood-letting was frequently had re- course to, both by the lancet and leeches; bhsters were apphed; calomel and opium were given until the mouth became sHghtly affected; the catheter was infa-oduced tln:ee or four times every day, but never brought away more than an ounce of urine at any one tune; with the exception of the second day after his admission into the hospital. All the symptoms gradually grew worse; the countenance became exceedingly sharp, and expressive of uitemal dis- tress ; the pulse very small, and the abdomen enormously swollen; there was much general emaciation and debility; and on the fifteenth day after the 'accident, death put a period to his protracted and exquisite sufferings. Autopsy.—On opening the abdomen six hours after death, the following appearances were discerned. The intestines much distended with flahis; the peritoneutnRUPTURE OF THE BLADDER. 203 slightly vasmlar, with a few small patches of lymph on the surface, and its cavity contained hettoeen two and three gallons of pale urinous fluid. On examining the bladder, a rent, capable of admitting tbe extremity of the little finger was found, in its superior and posterior region, Avhere covered by peritoneum ; the margins of the opening did. not present anytliing very remarkable, being neither tliickened or everted. The abdominal viscera were other- wise healthy. CASE. RUPTURE OP THE BLADDER FROM A FALL. James Codd, aged 38 years, a servant, whilst riding a spmted horse on the 31st of August; the animal became restive, reared up and fell backwards on the rider. He was much shocked at the time, felt weak and sick; was im- mediately conveyed home, and bled by an apothecary. In about two hours after the accident he was brought to the hospital. On admission, he looked pale and anxious ; his skin was cold, and his pulse slow and weak; he expressed a desne to pass water, but was unable to do so. It was ascertained, that he was tipsy at the time of the accident, and that he had not evacuated his bladder for a considera- ble time before it. He was placed in bed, and a catheter introduced, but noticing came away but a smaU jet of blood. September 1st, five o'clock, a.m., is very restless; com- plains of intense pain aE. over the abdomen, and is much tormented with hiccough. He was ordered twenty-four leeches to the abdomen, and their application to be followed up, by warm fomentations.204 CLINICAL SURGERY. 12 o'clock—^Tlie symptoms have increased; the abdomen is very tense^ and exquisitely painful; the pulse 123 and hard; the bowels confined, and the desire to pass water urgent. The catheter was again introduced, and brought away nothing but a small quantity of blood. He M'as ordered to be bled from the arm, to the amount of ten ounces, and to have an emoUient enema, and twenty leeches to the abdomen. rive o'clock—Tlie leech-bites bled profusely; the bowels have been freed, and he passed a small quantity of urine without the catheter; the pain in the abdomen is not severe. September 2nd, nine o'cloch a.m.—Bowels free; passed some urine; pain in the abdomen inconsiderable; however, the prostration of strength is very great. Tive o'clock, p.m. He appears to be quite exhausted, with sunken countenance and cold perspiration; pulse scarcely perceptible, about 180 in a minute; respiration 60, and laborious. Sept. 3rd, 9 o'clock a.m.—He died at 12 o'clock last night. Autopsy.—The abdomen was examined in about twelve " hours after death: it contained about a quart of reddish fluid, which emitted a urinous smeU: the peritoneal coat of the intestines was vascular, but there was no lymph effused. On introducing a catheter into the bladder, it went tlirough a small opening in the superior posterior region, into the cavity of the peritoneum; the margin of the opening was somewhat thickened, and the parts of the bladder imme- diately around it, presented an ecchymosed appearance, the bladder itself was perfectly empty, and contracted so as to resemble a firm ball.KUPTURE OF THE BIADDER. 20^1 Observations.—I have now read for you. Gentlemen, two very interesting cases of ruptured bladder, together with a description of the appearances exhibited by the 2^ost- mortem examinations; and now, before we separate, I wish to make a few general observations regarding these cases. In the first place^ it may, perhaps, appear somewhat strange to you, that the bladder should have given way, in both instances, in that part which is covered by peritoneum. Now, you are not to consider this in the hght of an acci- dental circumstance; in every case I am acquainted with, in which the bladder gave way, in consequence of falls or blows on the abdomen, the rupture took place in the peri- toneal region of the organ. In support of this statement, I beg to refer you, to two very important cases of tliis de- scription, which have been pubHshed in the second volume of the " Dublin Hospital Reports," by Dr. Ctjsack ; and also, to the ninth volume of the "Dublin Journal of Medi- cal Science" in which you wiU find the particulars of some iateresting cases, detailed by my distinguished colleague. Dr. Hahuison. The only explanation I would venture to suggest, is the anatomical fact, that the superior and pos- terior regions are weaker than the other parts of the bladder; inasmuch as, they do not receive any support from the reflections of the pelvic fasciae, whilst the peritoneal cover- ing, which is comparatively thin and dehcate, and being, in common with all serous membranes devoid of elasticity, is therefore, incapable of accommodating itself to violence suddenly apphed, and yields only by the laceration of its proper structure. The next point to wliich I am anxious to call your atten- tion, is the difference wliich exists between the local conse-206 CLINICAL SURGERY. (juences wliicli result from urinary extravasations into the cellular, and tlie serous tissues. I have already stated, that inflammation and mortification are the usual efl'ects, when they take place in the cellular membrane; now, I wish you to understand, that, in no instance with which I am ac- quainted, did mortification ensue from minary extravasation into the cavity of the peritoneum. Judging from the usual efl'ects of injury and irritation, when apphed to this very dehcate and sensitive membrane, it appears strange, that in cases of ruptured bladder, in which the peritoneum is not only wounded, but brought in contact with a very acrimo- nious fluid, that it should be slow in taking on inflamma- tory action, and capable of resisting its gangrenous conse- quences. In the case of Codd, which ended fatally on the third day after the accident, the usual efl'ects of peritoneal inflammation were but imperfectly marked; and in the case of Corry, the patient lived to the flfteenth day, and the post-mortem appearances would scarcely warrant us in say- ing, that the distressing symptoms, under which he laboured during his illness, were solely the result of peritonitis. The reason why a serous membrane is more capable of resisting the gangrenous effects of inflammation, than cel- lular membrane, is, in my mind, easily explained by a reference to the relative degrees of vitahty which they both possess. Hence it is that the cellular membrane of the scrotum sloughs from a comparatively shght cause.CHAPTER IX. LECTUEE IX. Delirium Tremens, its Spivptoms, Fatlwlogy, and Causes.—Tie diseases with wJdch it might be confo%mded.— Three cases, ivith observations, and a comparative view of the effects of the medicines employed in the treatment of them. Gentlemen, I request your attention whilst I make a few observa- tions on the disease generally called Deliriim Tremens. This is a complaint of frequent occurrence^ yet it was only Avithin the last forty-five years that the members of the medical profession became acquainted with its real natui'e, or acquired correct notions of its pathology and treatment. Dr. PeahsoNj in the year 1741, was, I beheve, the first medical writer who gave an accurate description of the complaint, under the title of "Brain Fever." Mr. Sutton, in the year 1813, gave a still more detailed account of the disease, and called it " Delirium Tremens." Since this period, many medical men of eminence have written upon the same disease, although caUiug it by different names. Eor instance. Dr. Akmsteong calls it " Brain Fever from intoxication." Drs. Elliotson and Copeland describe it under the name of "Delirium Tremefaciens." Dr. Ryan prefers the term " Delirium Nervosum ;" wlulst Dr. Blake considers that " Delirixim Ebriositatis" is the name wliich would be most expressive of the nature of the disease;208 CLINICAL SUUGERY. however, this gentleman feels no desire to set aside the name by wliich it is most generally known, and which was originally given to it by Dr. Sutton. The terms Delirimn Traumaticum" and " Delirium cum tremore," have also been employed to designate the same disease. In studying the complaint, wliich we have now under consideration, it is by no means necessary that you should commit to memory all the names which have been apphed to it by different writers; but it is very necessary, in a practical point of view, that you should know the disease itself, by its symptoms and history; and, in reference to the most approved of method of treating it. The disease has been divided into tliree stages, which, in a numerical point of view, may be fairly designated by the terms, first, second, and third. This division was first in- troduced by Dr. Blake, and subsequently adopted by other writers. I have long since satisfied myself, not only as to the correctness of Mr. Blake's division of the disease into stages, in a physiological and pathological point of -sdew, but the great importance of keeping them constantly in mind during the treatment. You are already aware, from the name given by Dr. Aemstrong, that Dehrium Tremens is a disease, almost peculiar to drunlcards and opium eaters. If you attend to the cases you ^vill see in the hospital during the session, you wiU perceive a great sameness amongst them, both as regards theii" liistory and symptoms. The history will be nearly as foUows :—A man addicted to drunkenness has in- dulged for two or three days in a continued debauch; during the entire of which time he was in a state of intoxication, and perhaps got little or no sleep. At the end of this period he209 LECTURE IX. meets witli an accident; is conveyed to the liospitalj and treated according to the natnre of the case; if you watch him closely you will find^ in a day or two after admission, that he will be depressed in spirits, with a slow pulse and cold extremities; his stomach somewhat sickish; the tongue moist and covered with a yellowish fur; he sleeps badly, and has no appetite. This stage seldom lasts longer than thirty-siK or forty-eight hours, when the second commences. In this stage the patient is greatly excited; he is restless and has a wild expression of countenance; Ms manner is hurried, and he appears apprehensive of some imaginary danger; the pulse is quick, and usually soft; the heat of the surface is greater than before; and now, for the first time, the pathognomonic symptoms become clearly estab- lished. His hands are in a state of constant tremour : if you tell him to put out his tongue, you will perceive that it, also trembles; he speaks incoherently; his thoughts are occupied with illusory apprehensions of a gloomy or fright- ful natiue. If he had been at any time a religious person, his thoughts fix on the enormity of liis crimes; the im- possibdity of making atonement for them, and the conse- quent certainty of eternal punishment. Shoidd the un- fortunate patient be in a state of pecuniary embarrassment, he wiU then fancy himself surrounded by baihffs, pohce- men, attorneys, " et hoc pecus omne,^'' and perhaps with a view of getting rid of his worldly difficulties, will seek re- pose, by attempting, or actually committing suicide ! If the patient happened to have been either a sailor or soldier, he will often imagine himself closely pressed by the enemy, or to avoid the terrors of a trial by court martial, seek safety in flight, and if possible try to escape by leaping210 CLINICAL SURGERT. out tlu'ougli the window. It is remarkable, that aUhough patients in tliis stage of the disease, when excited to such a ten-ible extent, will often attempt to commit suicide; yet, they are usually quiet towards others; however, this is not always the case. I remember having heard of a patient who was in Stevens' hospital a few years ago, afflicted with delirium tremens; and whilst in the second stage of the disease, he stole out of bed, and went to the fire-place for the poker, with wliich he gave one of the patients in the ward such a violent blow on the head as produced instant death. It is strange that patients in tliis state will generally answer the questions put by the medical attendant, with tolerable accuracy; the more especially, if he should appear by his maimer, to sympathise with them, by affecting to beheve in their absurd representations. If a person in tliis stage should happen to be affected with a severe local injury, such as a fractured hmb, he will not complain of it in the shghtest degree, but, on the contrary, if permitted, toss it about in aU directions, being totally indifferent to the consequences. This stage of the disease is very uncertain as to the time of its duration; if pro- perly treated as soon as the first symptoms appear, it may, perhaps, be cut short, and the patient cured in twelve or eighteen hours; however, it is much more usual for it to continue two or three days. At the end of this period, if the case shall end favourably, the patient ^viU become gradually quiet, and ultimately faU into a sound sleep, which may continue, without intermission, for twelve or eighteen hours, when he will awake quite well. In a case of tliis kind the tliii-d stage never occurs. The third stage is, in fact, a contmuation of the second in an aggra-211 LECTURE IX. vated form; tlie excitement, apprehension, and garrulity having attained the liighest possible degree; the patient becomes exhausted and lies muttering in bed, picldng at the bed clothes; his extremities are cold, and he is covered with a clammy perspiration; the pupils contracted; the pidse scarcely perceptible; the tremour of the hands has increased so as to amount, to a high degree of subsultus ten- dinum; his hps, teeth, and tongue are covered with a brownish sordes; and he at length dies either comatose or in a convulsive fit. The morbid appearances discovered by a post-mortem examination are by no means numerous. They consist of a tm-gid state of the vessels of the pia-mater; a shght degree of opacity in the arachnoid membrane, with some serous effusion into the ventricles of the brain. I have mentioned that the cases of Delnium Tremens, which you will meet with in tliis hospital, are usually preceded by accidents; however, you are not to infer from this statement, that the disease may not occur, independently of local injury. Suppose, for instance, that during a protracted debauch a man happens to be attacked with Dysentery, Cholera, or any other complaint, which would suddenly put a stop to drinking, a comphcated case of delirium tremens may be the consequence. Again, if the drunkard were suddenly arrested in his career of intoxication, by the interposition of anxious friends, dehrium tremens may be the result, quite irrespective of either accident or disease. I beheve accidents, occurring dming a drunken fit, and attended with a considerable loss of blood, are those most hkelyto be succeeded by dehrium tremens. Experience induces me to concur in Dr. M. Hall's views^ as to loss ofCLINICAL SURGERY, 212 blood being conducive to certain forms of delirium, which appear to have their immediate origin in functional derange- ment of the nervous system. Tlu:ee of the worst cases of deli- rium tremens I ever knew to recover, Avere of this description. The subject of one of them was the proprietor of a public house, on the Coombe, who, whilst in a state of intoxica- tion, and during an altercation with liis wife, received a blow of a pewter quart on the head, wliich divided the temporal artery; lie lost a great deal of blood before I saw liim, and was attacked with dehrium tremens in thirty-six hours after the accident. The second case was that of a master tailor, who resided in Plunket-street: having spent two days fi'om home, during which period he was incessantly drinking, he retui'ned early one morning, " in puris naturalihus," and had the misfortune to meet his wife in the hall: he made a race up stahs; she seized a long deal stick, with a rough spiculated extremity, and pm'sued him; before he got as far as the first lobby, she made a violent thrust of the stick at him, which took effect m the posterior part of the scrotum, wliich was dreadfully lacerated, so as to denude the testicles, wluch were suspended, merely by the sperma- tic cords. Previous to my arrival at the patient's house, he lost a great deal of blood, but the bleeding had then ceased. I closed the hps of the wound, and kept them together by a few points of suture, aided by sticking plaster, and placed a piece of damp hnt over all. I then prescribed a full opiate draught, but it did not produce sleep, and the first stage of delirium tremens was estabhshed next day, and on the second he was almost unmanageable j however, he ulti- mately recovered. The tliird case was that of a butcher, in Ormond Market, who, wliilst in a state of intoxication.LECTURE IX. 213 which had been kept up for two or three days, fell on liis back; his head came against the edge of a flag, and the scalp was extensively wounded. On my arrival I found the patient lying in bed, with his clothes on; and a friend trying to stop the hemorrhage by forcibly pressing a pillow against the wound. I removed the pillow, wliich was satu- rated'with blood, and sponged out the wound, from one point of which, a jet of arterial blood issued per saltum, shewing clearly that a large branch of the occipital artery had been opened. I completed the division of the wounded vessel, and made pressure for a few seconds on its extremi- ties, when the bleeding ceased. The head having been shaved, the Hps of the wound were brought together, and retained in this position by strips of adhesive plaster, aided by compress and bandage. The patient having continued in a stupid, di'unken state all the time the wound was being dressed and afterwards, I did not think it necessary to order an opiate. In the course of two or three days he was attacked with delirium tremens, which continued in a very violent form until the third day after the symptoms first appeared, when it yielded to the sedative powers of large doses of opium, which were fi-equently repeated before sleep was induced. Gentlemen, when called on to attend a case of delirium in a person of drunken habits, you should bear in mind, that it does not follow as a matter of certainty, that deli- rium tremens is the disease you will have to treat; no, for it may perhaps, be the immediate deHrium of intoxication, the delirium of plrrenitis, or the delirium of mania. By a little reflection, and attention to the history of the case, and ex- isting symptoms, you will easily distinguish between it, andCLINICAL SURGERY. 214 these diseases. Tor example, wlien the delmum of intoxi- cation is continued, the face is flushed, the eyes suf- fused, the articulation thick, and there is no tremour. In plii'enitis there is headache, intolerance of Light, and symptomatic fever; wliilst in delirium tremens, all these symptoms are usually absent ■ and again, the tremours of the fingers and tongue are not present in phrenitis. The inco- herent wandering of the maniac is very u.iilike the peculiar form of dehrium, which I have described, as being charac- teristic of delirium tremens; again, the maniac is not ne- cessarily affected with tremours. As to the causes of deUrium tremens, they may be fairly divided into two, namely, the remote and proximate. By the remote you are to understand tbe immoderate use of certain diffusible stimuli; such as whiskey, opium, wine, &c. &c.; to wMch the system had been, in some measure, habituated by their long continuance; wlulst the sudden omission of those stimuli should be considered as being the immediate or proximate cause of the disease. This ar- rangement may, at fu'st sight, appear somewhat strange and incomprehensible; however, I trust, by a httle reflection on the liistory of the disease, and the plan of treatment which experience has proved to be the most successful, it will not only become intelligible, but convincingly manifest. The case stands thus; a person by the continued use of a diffusible stimulus, produces and maintains for a certain length of time, a high degree of excitement in the neiTous system; which it is able either to bear or resist, to a certain extent, from the controlling influence of habit, but in con- sequence of the supervention of some cause, such as acci- dent or disease, &c., the stimulus is suddenly witlihcld ;215 LECTTJRE IX. in the course of twenty-four^ or tliirty-six hours afterwards ; the nervous system begins to feel the loss^ and sinks into a state of temporary inaction or collapse, as is exemplified in the first stage of the disease; if tliis state of things were to continue long, Hfe would become extinguished; but in order to prevent such an effect, the vis mcclicatrix nature is called into operation, and the consequence is, a high de- gree of reaction, m wliich both the nervous and vascular systems are engaged in a most confused manner, so as to constitute the second stage; tliis being continued for some time, it may end either in the calm repose of " balmy sleep,'''' or in the eternal sleep of death. In the treatment of a case of deKrium tremens you should constantly keep in mind the various states of the nervous system which exist during the progress of the disease. By a strict observance of tliis rule youi- practice will be attend- ed -with success; and if the cases wliich may happen to be under your care, should not be comphcated with organic disease, or a broken down state of the constitution, you will not lose one patient out of fifty. Let us now consider what plan of treatment would be most likely to be attended with beneficial results hi the first stage of the disease ? In tins stage, the practitioner should at once employ both sootliing and stimulating remedies. For this purpose, effervescing draughts consistuig, chiefly, of carbonate of ammonia and lemon-juice should be fre- quently administered; a table-spoonful of sherry or ma- deira ; a tea-spoonful of brandy, or ten or fifteen drops of tinctui-e of opium may with advantage be added to each draught; the extremities should be roUed up in warm flannel, and heaters apphed to the feet. This treatmentCLINICAL SURGERY. 216 should be continued until the patient either falls asleep, or the second, or characteristic stage of the disease becomes developed; in the event of the latter takhig place, opium should be administered in large sedative doses: for this purpose, a draught containing either half a grain of the muriate or acetate of morpliine; or sixty drops of the acetum opii may be given every tliird hour, until the patient shall either fall asleep or become narcotised. Should the patient be naturally strong, and the pulse moderately full, tartar-emetic may be given with great advantage, either in combination with opium, or in alternating doses. The hair should be cut close; and if the patient would permit the application of cold evaporating lotions to the head and temples, they ought to be applied. Bleeding should be avoided in all cases, and in all stages of the disease : coer- cive measures should hlcewise be avoided as much as pos- sible ; however, in some cases they must be adopted. For example, if a man have a fractured leg, and yet is most anxious to get out of bed; in such a case restraint is abso- lutely necessary. Some writers attach great importance to the administration of purgatives in delirium tremens; for my own part, although I should be sorry to say that they may not sometimes prove useful, stiU I consider them in a secondary point of view, and do not attach much import- ance to their use. I may here mention to you, that the celebrated French surgeon. Baron Dupuytren, earnestly recommends a few drops of tincture of opium to be given in the form of an enema; and speaks strongly of the superior efficacy of this method of administering opium. In reference to this statement, I can only say that in this country, it would not be an easy matter to administer anDELIRIUM TREMENS. 217 enema to a man wliilst in the second stage of delirium tremens, nor do I tliink that fifteen or twenty drops of laudanum, given in that form would be attended with much advantage; the patient being a "mems Jiibernicus." Wlien a considerable quantity of opium has been given in any form without having produced a soporific effect, and symptoms of narcotism are being estabhshed, and the pulse fails, so that the patient hes muttering in bed with subsultus, and laborious breathing, the plan of treatment should be altered at once, and the opium laid aside alto- gether. Stimulants should now be freely given, such as camphor, ammonia, aether, &c.; and sinapisms applied to the soles of the feet, and blisters to the nape of the neck, or between the shoulders. CASE. Becemher %nd.—John Hardy, aged 46, was admitted into the hospital this morning affected with the following symptoms :—Tremours of the hands, suffused eyes, con- tracted pupils, but no intolerance of hght; his manner is hurried, and he looks suspiciously around him; pulse 96 and rather fuU; tongue coated with a yellowish mucus; when protruded it trembles; the skin moist and rather warm. The patients in the ward with him state that he has been very restless ever since his admission into the hos- pital ; and that he imagined he saw insects crawKng about his bed. He admits liimseK that he had been drinking on yesterday, but denies that there is any tiling the matter with him. He is a notorious drunkard, and was in the hospital last August in consequence of a violent attack of delirium tremens, with which he is now obviously affected. L218 CLINICAL SURGERY. He was ordered a draught composed of fifty drops of acetum opiij an ounce of peppermint water, and two drachms of simple syrup, to be repeated every third hour until he slept. Becemler 2>rd.—He took three of the draughts during the night; was furious at about ten o'clock, and subse- quently rushed out of the ward and ran tlu'ough the hos- pital ; it was therefore necessary to restrain him in bed. At four o'clock he became comparatively quiet, and after- wards feU asleep, and continued to sleep for tlu:ee or four- hours : he is now (9 o'clock, a. m.) awake, and although much quieter than he had been during the night, is by no means well. The dose of the acetum opii was increased to sixty drops, and directions given to have it repeated every third hour as before until sleep would be procured. December Mli.—He got but one draught after yesterday's visit, when he feU asleep, and continued sleeping up to the present: he is now awake and appears to be perfectly well, and has got permission to leave the hospital whenever he pleases, CASE. November Wi.—John Evans was admitted this morning into the hospital, whilst laboui'ing under the following symptoms :—He was greatly agitated ; liis hands trembled immoderately; the surface was cold, and his legs and arms had a clammy feel; the expression of countenance Avas that of wildness and suspicion : he complained of being annoyed by objects constantly passing before liis eyes: whilst these symptoms were being noted, he suddenly jumped up from bed, to defend himself from two imaginary enemies; he219 DELIRIUM TREMENS. believed he was in jail for some crime of wliicli he empha- tically cleclai-ed his innocence. He was ordered a draught containing forty di'ops of the acetum opii every tliiid hour until sleep would be procured. %t1i.—He got the draughts but did not sleep j on the contrary, he became very violent yesterday evening and made several attempts to escape through the window; it there- fore became necessaiy to restrain him with a strait- waistcoat; he is now in a state of despondency, constantly praying and entreating the nurse not to poison him; the pulse is very feeble, and variable as to frequency, being at one time very quick, and in a few minutes after comparatively slow. He was ordered a repetition of the draughts, with this difference, that the acetum opii was increased to fifty drops. 1th.—He has taken tlu-ee of the draughts but did not sleep; he was very violent last night, and made several efforts to get to the window : tins morning he is more tran- quil, and answers questions more rationally than hitherto ; the pulse continues very feeble. The draughts to be re- peated, and given every third hour, as before, pro\aded sleep should not occur. Wi.—He slept occasionally last night, and is now more rational, and less suspicious than he has been since admission; but he is not at all well yet. The cbaughts to be continued, the acetum opii beuig diminished one half, so that there will be only twenty drops in each dose. 9^^.—He is worse to-day; some friends having called to see liim yesterday evening, he became greatly excited, and continues as restless and u-rational as he had been at any time since his admission into the hospital; he could220 CLINICAL SURGERY. not be prevailed on to take the draught. The bowels being confined, he is now ordered a purgative mixture consisting of seven ounces of infusion of senna, an ounce of the tincture of senna, an ounce of sulphate of magnesia, and two drachms of the electuary of scammony; two spoons- ful to be taken every second hour until the bowels shall be affected. 10?!/^.—He took the medicine with much reluctance; however, it had the desired effect; he is now tolerably quiet, but as yet he has not slept. Ordered a draught composed of forty drops of the acetum opii, thirty drops of the liquor antimonii tartarizati; an ounce of water, and two drachms of syrup of ginger. llt/^^—He slept last night, and is perfectly quiet this morning; is more rational than he has been at any time since his admission; but the prostration of strength is very great; the countenance sunk, and the pulse scarcely per- ceptible. He was ordered a mixture composed of six ounces of camphor mixture, a drachm of carbonate of am- monia, and an ounce of syrup of orange peel; two table spoonsful to be taken every fourth hour. I2tk.—He is considerably improved; slept the entire night without intermission; with the exception of some hastiness of manner, the bad symptoms have all disap- peared; and the patient has a desire for "something to eat." 14,1/i—B.e has been steadily impro\ang since last report, and may now be considered free from disease; but he is stiU weak. l^t/i,—H_e was discharged cured this day.DELIRIUM TREMENS. 221 CASE. October 29^.—Jolin Conlan, aged twenty-niiie years, of stout make, and a wood-carver by trade, was admitted into the hospital this morning, labouring under the following symptoms. He was carried to the hospital, and on his arrival presented a frightful appearance: his face was deadly pale; his neck and breast covered with blood; his extremities cold, and the pulse scarcely perceptible; his looks were wild, and he spoke incoherently. On examining his neck a deep wound was discovered on the left side, extending from immediately below the ear over to the os-hyoids; the wound crossed in front of the carotid artery, and must have divided a good many small vessels : however, the bleeding having ceased before he came to the hospital, it was impossible to find them indivi- dually. On inquiry, it was ascertained that this man was very much addicted to drunkenness, and that tliree days previous to his admission he had concluded a debauch of three weeks' duration. The wound was dressed with adhe- sive plaster, supported by compresses of Unt, which were maintained in their place by additional strips of recently made sticking-plaster. He was ordered a draught, com- posed of an ounce of camphor mixture, ten drops of tinc- ture of opium, and two drachms of syrup; to be taken every hour. —Passed a bad night, having been extremely rest- less, frequently starting up in bed, saying, he saw persons coming in at the window ; the dressings have been torn off the wound, wliich gapes widely; he is at tliis moment tole- rably collected, and complains of thirst; the tongue is222 CLINICAL SUKGEKY. coated, and ratlier dry. A light poultice to be applied to the wound; and the drauglits to be repeated every second hour. Zlst.—He took four draughts since last report, but did not sleep dm-ing the night; talked incessantly about ima- ginary things; is now tolerably quiet. To have a draught composed of an ounce of camphor mixture, half a grain of muriate of morphine, and two drachms of syrup, every fourth hour. Novemler 1st.—Passed a bad night, had no sleep what- ever, but continued raving the entire night. The draughts to be continued. 2,nd.—Nearly in the same state as yesterday; had no sleep during the night, but is now, for the first time since admission, inclined to doze. The draughts to be continued. 2>rd.—Passed a bad night; got up several times out of bed to defend liimseK from dogs which he imagined were going to attack liim; he is now tolerably quiet, appears much exhausted; pulse 120 small and compressible: the pupils are contracted almost to obhteration. Having now taken six grains of morpliine without any soporific effect, it was discontinued. 4sth,—Passed a better night than usual, but slept very little; he is tolerably rational, and says he knows the figures which appear to him at night are imaginary, yet he cannot overcome his dread of them. The morphine draught to be resumed. ^tk.—He took three di-aughts since last report, but did not sleep until 8 o'clock tins morning; lie is at present asleep and breathing heavily; the pulse is quiet and the skin cool. No medicine.DELIRIUM TREMENS 223 m.—Uudi improved this moniing having slept well dui-ing the night; the wound presents a healthy appear- ance, being filled with florid granulations. 7t/i—B.e slept ahnost ever since last report, and is now perfectly cahn and rational; with the exception of the wound, he might be considered quite well. 20if/i.—Since last report he continued improving in health; the wound is now healed and he is tins day discharged. Practical Observations. By a little reflection on the cases I have just read, you Avill find the followmg points deserving of consideration :— In the first place, you should bear in mind that the patients were admitted into the hospital during the second stage of the disease; that they were all cured by opium; wliilst the time and the quantity of opium necessary to effect a cure varied in a remarkable manner m each case. T'or instance. Hardy was admitted on the second of December, and slept the next day, having taken only tAvo hundred and ten drops of the acetum opii. Evans was admitted on the fifth of November, but did not sleep before the evening of the tenth, having in the interim, taken five hundred and forty drops of the acetum opii; whilst Conlan, who was admitted on the twenty-ninth of October, did not sleep until the fifth of November, by which time he had taken one hundred and twenty drops of the tincture of opium, and nine grains and a half of muriate of morphine.CHAPTER X. LECTUEE X. Catalepsy and JEc&tacy—Their symptoms and causes illus- irated by cases.—An interesting case where mutism super- vened, and contvnued for forty-three days.—Tlie treatment of the case with observations. Gentlemen, Having already pointed out to you tlie great variety of derangements to wliicli the functions of sensation and voluntary motion, and tlie intellectual faculties are liable, as manifested in those diseases which axe usually called nervous, I now request your attention to a few observations on the subject of catalepsy and ecstacy. In a genuine case of catalepsy the patient is suddenly deprived of consciousness and voluntary motion, the trunk and extremities retaining whatever position they happened to be placed in at the moment of the cataleptic seizure, untn the termination of the fit, which varies in duration, in different cases, from a few minutes to many hours. The muscles appear to have lost their usual tone to such an extent, that one would be induced to say that they possessed neither contractility nor elasticity: they will assume any condition in which you may choose to place them, and preserve it, seemingly in opposition to the laws of gravity and convenience, as if composed of lead, wax, or some225 LECTURE X. other inelastic or inanimate material. The eyelids are usually closed^ but there are exceptions, in which they re- main open, exposing the globes of the eyes and the pupils, wliich are generally fixed. Tlie functions of respiration and circulation are sometimes carried on with so much ob- scurity that persons have been considered absolutely dead, when, to the astonishment and dehght of mourning friends, the delusion was suddenly dispelled by the unexpected return of the wonted faculties. I may here mention to you the celebrated case of Lady Russell, wliich so simulated death that the usual preparations had been made for her interment, when she suddenly awoke, as if by the sound of the bell which was tolling for her intended funeral; but imagining it was to announce the commencement of divine service, she hastily called on her friends to accompany her to church. It sometimes happens that the patient, although incapable of making the shghtest exertion, is conscious of what is passing around. There is a case of this description recorded in which the phenomena of death were so well marked that the usual forms were being made for her funeral, as in the case of Lady Eussell. Gentlemen, it is much easier for you to imagine, than it is for me to describe, what the feelings of this unhappy individual must have been on witnessing these awful preparations, and to contemplate the sudden transition from " deep despair" to indescribable joy, which she experienced when her returning faculties enabled her to avert the horrors of a premature grave, by exclaiming in the frantic tone of triumphant exultation, "1 am not dead?" It occasionally occurs in cataleptic patients, whilst all communication with the external world, through the ordinary functions of relation, is suspended L 2CLINICAL SURGERY. •22(i during the fit, tliat the faculties of heariug, seeing, tasting, &c. &c., have been acquired by other parts of the individual, Avhich bear no similitude or relation to the organs of sense. There is a case of tliis description detailed in the first volume of the Lancet for 1832-33, page 663, in wliich it is stated that the subject of the attack, a female twenty- five years of age, could, during the paroxysm, althougli insensible to all stimuli when apphed to the organs of sense, hear the lowest whisper when addressed to the epigastrium, the palms of the hands and the soles of the feet; she could hkewise recognise certain substances by their pecuhar taste or smell, when apphed to these newly-gifted regions : she could also distinguish colours, and read, with the eyes bandaged; and, what appears to be still more extraordinary, maintain a conversation in a language which she had never learned, on subjects of wliich she previously knew nothing, and describe with accuracy objects which she had never seen or heard of! This and similar statements are, doubt- less, well calculated to put our credulity to the test; but when we call to mind the extraordinary phenomena which occur in cases of somnambuHsm, and what we have our- selves witnessed in the case of Mrs. rhui, we are not, in my opinion, justified in withholding our belief of the possi- bihty of facts so well authenticated. Ecstacy bears a strong resemblance to catalepsy: in both cases the patients, during the paroxysm, lose all connexion with the physical world, being deprived of sense and volun- tary motion; but in ecstacy, associations of the most pleas- ing and enchanting nature are established, with an ideal existence in an unknown region, which might perhaps be poetically designated the fairy land of an undescried Ely-LECTURE X. 227 sium. lu tliis instance the individual awakes with feehngs of disappointment and regi-et, at finding that Ms enjoyments were visionary, and that he is again doomed to experience the vicissitudes of human hfe. When we come to inquire into the causes of these strange diseases, we find that some of them arise spontaneously, and, consequently, their origin wiU not admit of explana- tion ; others appear to be the result of functional derange- ment, or mental emotion; a tliird may be the effect of sym- pathetic imitation; wliilst a fom-tli, it is alleged, may be produced by the mysterious agency of animal magnetism. The records of medicine furnish abundant examples of the two first; I win not, therefore, occupy your time in enume- rating facts wliich are well known, and with which, I pre- sume, many of you are already acquainted, but at once proceed to direct your attention to a few cases in order to prove the influence of sympathetic imitation and animal magnetism, in causing those diseases. The foUowiiig case occurred at Bologna, in Italy, and is pubhshed in the Gazette Medicale of Paris, for November, 1832. "The subject of it was a man aged 24 years, who having pre- viously enjoyed good health, suffered a violent moral emo- tion wliilst witnessing the struggles of a female in an in- tense hysteric paroxysm. In a short time after he himself was attacked with remarkable convulsive movements. These generally commenced in the morning, and lasted for different periods, sometimes for some hours at a tune. During its accession aU external perceptions were aboHshed in the ordinary channels. The functions of organic hfe, too, were remarkably troubled. His respiration was impeded, his pulse slow, the extremities were of icy coldness. InCLINICAL SURGERY. 228 addition to these symptoms, something extraordinary was one day noticed. It was found that while he was utterly insensible to, and unconscious of, all sounds addressed to the ear, he perceived them distinctly if directed to the pit of the stomach. To questions addressed there, he returned im- mediate replies; but of all that was spoken to his ear he was perfectly ignorant. This singular phenomenon occurred three times, and was witnessed by several individuals before the patient was cured." Permit me now to remind you of the girl Whitmore, who was admitted into this hospital a few weeks since, in conse- quence of a distressing pain in the abdomen, of a very anomalous character, which was, by herseK, attributed to the fact of her having eaten some berries " she got on a tree." However, I think there is good reason to suppose it to have been of hysterical origin. This girl was in the constant habit of sitting with Mrs.. Tinn, until she became decidedly hysterical herseK; and I understand that since she left the hospital she kas been attacked with genuine catalepsy, and is at present in the Uichmond Hospital, un- der treatment for that affection. From a consideration of these circumstances, and a recollection of the fact, that cata- lepsy is a disease of such rare occurrence, that the celebrated Cullen never saw a case of it, I thiuk it is rational to sup- pose that sympathy had some iafluence in exciting it in this individual, who, I admit, was constitutionally predisposed to nervous affections. The advocates of animal magnetism allege that they can by the exercise of certain manoeuvres of the hand, con- ducted according to " their system," produce ecstasy in such persons as maybe subjected to its influence; many229 LECTURE X. cases in support of tlie truth of tlieir doctrines iiave been published, but as I consider one example sufficient for oui- present purpose, I will merely read to you an extract from Andral's lecture on this subject, in which the following curious ch'cumstances are detailed:— " In the inaugm-al thesis of M, Tillazi, defended before our Faculty of Medicine, there is the narrative of an occur- rence bearing irresistible proofs of its authenticity, and wliich seems to me to be sufficient to decide the question. The author, than an interne at the Rotel Dieu, and totally sceptical regarding the powers attributed to this mysterious essence, this asserted magnetic fluid, formed for mere amusement the plan, with a brother interne equally inci-e- dulous, of submitting this friend to the mancBuvres of the magnetizers in the manner M. Eostan describes. The ' passes' were continued for about twenty minutes without any remarkable effect, but at the expiration of that time the young man began to yawn, his eyehds grew heavy, and closed involuntarily; he attempted to shake off this torpor in vain; his respiration next became accelerated, his head fell on his shoulders, and he uttered a sardonic laugh of indescribable expression. We thought (says the narrator), that he was amusing himseK at our expense, but in a little time, what was my horror when I saw his fingers turn blue, his head faU powerless forward, when I heard his respira- tion rattling like a dying man's, and felt his skin as cold as death itseK! I cannot find words to describe my suffer- ings. I knew not what to do. Meanwliile all these horrid phenomena increased in intensity. I tremble at the recol- lection of what I saw; there lay my friend, my victim, de- void of the aspect of life, in a state of complete and terrible230 CLINICAL SDRGEllY. collapse, with liis liaud clasped in mine, in a state of agony no tongue could teU of. I laid him on a bed, and waited the result in a state of mind I can never forget. In a quarter of an hour he recovered, and exclaiming, that in the ecstasy he had experienced sensations of extreme dehght, he passionately begged of me to recommence the ' passes.' I did so with less apprehension, and again the somnolency proceeded; the collapse, however, was less profound and terrific, and in some minutes he suddenly awoke with the exclamation, ' Wliat happiness is this V " However incredible or surprising tliis narrative may appear at the first blush, yet when we bear in mind that it has been authenticated by a physician of character, who had been himseK an unbehever in the doctrine of aiumal magnetism, we should not, in my opinion, be justified in doubting his veracity. Our knowlege of the laAvs of the animal economy is not yet sufficiently perfect to warrant our disbelief in the possibiHty of certain phenomena, merely on the grounds that we did not ourselves witness their occurrence, or because they cannot be satisfactorily explained according to our present notions of physiology and pathology. Tor my own part I have made it a rule to receive all infor- mation on these abstruse but very interestuig subjects with feelings of impartiality, being uninfluenced by preconceived theories, and, I trust, not being hypercritically sceptical of the statements of others, and to wait patiently in all matters of doubt, with the hope that time, the groAving intelhgence of the age, and the advancement of science, will speedily dispel the obscurity. I now beg your particular attention to the case wliich has brought us together on the present occasion, and has uatu-LECTURE X. 231 rally excited so much interest amongst you for some time past. It will be read to you as it was noted down in the case book, during its progress, since the admission of the patient into the hospital:— "Aim Pinn, aged eighteen years, eight months married, of rather fuU habit, with dehcate skin, blue eyes, and fair complexion, was admitted into the Jervis-street Hospital on the a9th of June, for neuralgia of the right side, with which she had been afflicted for the preceding six weeks. At the time of admission there was much tenderness on pressure along the course of the sciatic nerve, from the hip to the knee. The shghtest motion caused shootmg pam in this direction, and it was acutely felt in the lumbar region on on every attempt at couglnng or sneezing. The pain was so severe at night that it prevented her from sleeping. Her general health was mdifferent, being feverish, and in bad spirits. She was then (June 29th) about three months advanced in pregnancy. Various topical and general remedies were administered for five or six weeks, viz., locally; leeches, bhsters, moxas, and liniments, were appHed without advantage. Acupuncturation was also made trial of. She was rather insensible to these external stimuh; even the appHcation of the moxa gave her but little uneasi- ness. The ointment of veratria, in the proportion of a scruple of veratria to an ounce of lard, was used, but, like the other apphcations, without the shghtest beneficial effect. She took internally, at different times, quinine, carbonate of iron, and anodynes of various descriptions; but all medicines administered internally, disagreed with her after a few- days. About the latter end of July, as she found herself not improving, she stated her intention of returning232 CLINICAL SURGERY. to her friends in the country, and on the 1st of August, much to the surprise of every person in the hospital, she arose, dressed herseK, and walked away apparently quite well. During her stay in the hospital she never left her bed, and for a few days previous to her departure she appeared to suffer more thon usual. The fact of her thus suddenly recovering the use of the limb after long confine- ment, made some ill-natured persons suspect she had been mahngering; but this was as improbable as the suspicion was uncharitable and groundless. On the 23rd of October she was again admitted into the hospital, the pain in her thigh being nearly as bad as formerly. She stated that she had miscarried a few weeks after she left Dublin, in August, and that she had been suffering nearly all the time she was in the country, from the affection of her side. She looked pale and dejected, but had not lost flesh. November 1st.—A drunken man, a friend to one of the patients in the ward where she was, abused her for some ima- ginary offence, and threw her into a violent hysterical parox- ysm ; she was seized with a kind of retching, became nearly insensible, and her countenance was quite suffused. The globus hystericus was visible, rising in her throat. This fit lasted nearly an hour, and she appeared to be much exhausted after it. She had an attack of this kind almost every day up to the 9th instant, when the character of the paroxysm became altered, and the neuralgic affection appeared to have completely left her. ^th.—In the fits to-day she commences by smiling, pushing out her legs, and clencliing her hands so firmly that it is quite impossible to open them. The jaM's also become closely locked; she twists her hands about, andLECTURE X. 233 tlieu strikes the bed violently; if any person endeavours to hold her she resists with all her force. She sometimes catches hold of her own hair, and if not prevented, would tear it out in handsful.. She attempts to bite her own, or any other person's hand which happens to be near her; and should she not succeed in her efforts, she bites the bed- clothes, and if her feet be let loose, she kicks furiously in every direction. These paroxysms last only a few minutes, but they occur very frequently during the day, and are brought on by the shghtest disturbance. In the intervals of the paroxysms she is tolerably well and in good spirits. She has retention of urine, and requires the use of the catheter; the urine is limpid, and secreted in considerable quantity. IStk.—^its continue without any alteration in character; the retention of urine also continues, and she requires the use of the catheter two or tlu-ee times daily. She is per- fectly intelligent, but has completely lost her speech. She hears, and will write, or make signs to show that she perfectly understands any question put to her, but is utterly incapable of articulating a single word. It appears that she had a paroxysm of long duration last night, and that she has not ' spoken since. 'Zlst.—^Aphony continues, and the most insignificant monosyllable has not escaped her hps since the last report. She is perfectly inteUigent in the intervals of the paroxysms, wliich occur more frequently and with greater violence than heretofore. To-day she exliibits a new phenomenon; after each paroxysm she becomes cataleptic. About a minute or two after one of the violent fits before described is over, and she appears to be quite recovered, she suddenly drops into234 CLINICAL SURGERY. a sound sleep, the countenance assumes a state of the most perfect placidity, the eyes remain closed, and when the lid is raised the eyeball is seen turned upwards with the pupil dilated. She maintains whatever position she happens to be in at the time of seizure, with the exception that the fingers are suddenly bent backwards, extended. The arms, fingers, and head retain any posture they are moved into, no matter how ludicrous or painful apparently. The legs and feet become too rigid to admit of being moved. The toes are always firmly and violently,flexed. During this fit she is perfectly insensible to every thing around her, and no stimulus appears to be capable of exciting consciousness. Having remained in this state for eight or ten minutes, she recovers with a moan, and seems to suffer from pain in her left breast. These fits occm- twenty or thirty times in twenty-four hours, and as frequently in the night as in the day. Eetention of urine continues, but it is secreted in less quantity than before, and is full of mucus. She cannot now retain it as patiently as hitherto, and requires the catheter four or five times in the twenty-four hours. The tongue and pulse are natural. She indicates by signs that she is affected with head-ache. Her appetite is bad, and she has scarcely slept at all since her re-admission into the hospital. 2Srcl—The cataleptic fit comes on quite suddenly, con- tinues longer than before, and precedes the furious paroxysm. The cataleptic attack is generally of about fifteen minutes duration, and the subsequent convulsion about three. '^'\Tien recovering she generally utters a few piercmg moans, and places her hands on the left side of her thorax, as if she felt severe pain in the region of the heart. She suffers pain all over the abdomen, but it is manifestly the result of morbid235 CASE (IF CATALEPSY. sensibiKty in the nervous system, and quite different from that, resulting from inflammatory action. 26t/i.—The following is the order in which the stages of the paroxysm occur. She fost becomes suddenly cataleptic, perhaps wliile in the act of eating, drinking, or making signs in reply to questions wliich have been put to her. She continues insensible in the position she happens to be in at the moment, for about fifteen or twenty minutes. She is then seized with a violent paroxysm, which lasts only a minute and a half, when the convulsion suddenly stops. She relapses into the cataleptic state, in which she continues about ten minutes; at the end of this time she instantaneously awakes, in possession of aE her faculties except speech. The fits recur every five minutes, and the shghtest degree of disturbance is capable of producing them at any moment. The pulse is not affected during the catalepsis. 26f/i.—The catalepsis continues much longer than here- tofore; she remained in one fit this morning without inter- mission for an hour and a half. An geohan was played close to her ear, but she seemed to be unconscious of what was doing: her head was then placed over a bucket, and some cold water dashed upon lier. She screamed violently, but did not become conscious. She was spoken to on the epigas- trium, the pahns of the hands, and the soles of the feet. When she recovered from the fit, on being questioned as to whether she had heard the music, or any person speaking, or if she felt the water, she answered by signs in the negative. Deceml/er IsL—At five o'clock this evening she was seized with an extraordinary difficulty of breathing, which resembled a \dolent panting, the abdomen and thorax heav-236 CLINICAL SURGERY. ing alternately in a most remarkable maiiner. The respi- rations as counted by the motions of the chest were 120 in a minutCj but by placing the hand inamediately over the patient's mouth, it was ascertained that the admissions and expulsions of aii-, into and from the lungs were very little, if at all more frequent than natural. This new symptom has not in any degree interfered with the cataleptic seizures, which occur as frequently as before. The pulse is weak and quick, beatiuglOS strokes in a minute; altogether she looks more emaciated and exhausted than she did since her ad- mission into the hospital. 9^/^.—She has remained nearly in the same state as when last reported. The dyspnoea has never remitted even for an instant, up to last night, when she had an hour's comforta- ble sleep. To-day her respiration occasionally stops sud- denly, and continues suspended for a minute; her face becomes livid; the arms, which at other times are easily flexed or moved, become quite rigid, and cannot be moved without considerable force; the abdomen is enormously distended durmg the suspension of respiration, from which she recovers with a crowing noise, when the countenance, arms, and abdomen, instantaneously return to their natural state. im.—She appears improved to-day; had two hours' sleep last night. The spasmodic action of the diaphragm ceased altogether dm-ing sleep, and is not near so violent at any time as formerly. The catalepsis now lasts but a few minutes, and on recovering from it she is seized with a violent conviolsive paroxysm, similar to that described on the 9th of November, Avith this difference, that she does not relapse into the cataleptic state on the subsiding of the convulsions, but is suddenly restored to her faculties.237 CASE OF CATALEPSY. nth.—There was a slight appearance of the catamenia yesterday morning, which ceased in the evening; in other respects she remains pretty much in the same state; loss of speech and retention of luine still contmue. 18^/^.—No menstrual discharge yesterday, but this day it retm-ned, and is abundant. The interruptions to respi- ration are frequent, and attended with congestion of the face, rigidity of the limbs, and tumefaction of the abdomen as before. '^\st.—She can articulate a few insignificant monosylla- bles, such as ' yes^ and ' nothe inordinate action of the diaphragm has nearly ceased. %hth.—All this day the catalepsis never at one time con- tinued more than one or two minutes; the convxdsion, which is very violent, lasts three or four. She is sick, and had retching three or four times. 2Qth.—About ten o'clock last night, the nurse being absent, she got out of bed to get a drink, her stomach became sick, and she vomited, she says, a clot of blood, and immediately found she could articulate. She now speaks as well as ever; says she was always sensible except when affected with a fit, but on these occasions had no knowledge or idea whatever of anything that occurred. 'IWi.—The catalepsis lasts not more than one minute. The paroxysm which succeeds is more violent than it has been at any former period. She strikes at every person about her, as if by design. She sometimes speaks, whilst in the convulsion, which ends leaving her in a sort of idiotic stupor, wliich continues for two or three minutes. January ?>rd, 1835.—On this day she recovers from the convulsive paroxysm without its being succeeded by the "■idiot stupor."238 CLINICAL SURGERY. \Wi.—Has contiimed as last reported, up to tliis day, M'lien there is a slight appearance of menstruation. She has likewise been attacked with the inordinate action of of the diapliragm, from which she has not suffered during the last three weeks. YUl.—Tliis day she stated, that having been thinking over various matters which occurred to her during the last two months, she recollected having heard a voice one day on the pit of the stomach while she was in a fit, and con- sequently otherwise insensible. On the occurrence of the first cataleptic attack after this communication, she was spoken to on the epigastrium as on the 26th of November; and on the subsidence of the fit, she could repeat with accuracy every word addressed to her through tliis region. Tliis experiment was often repeated, and was always attended with similar results. She could hear the lowest whisper, or even the ticking of a watch. However, she was incapa- ble of distinguishing between the voices of different persons who spoke to her. She stated that the voice appeared to her, as if it issued from a barrel, and that she could form no idea whatever of the state she was in. Februanj IsiJ.—She has been gradually improving ever since the last report, and is now able to get up and walk about the ward. She is, however, sometimes seized with the catalepsis Avhen in the erect posture, and remains so during the fit. Retention of urine continues, but in ever^- other respect she appears to be steadily recovering." Such, gentlemen, is the history of Mrs. Einn's case; the details may appear to be unnecessarily tedious, but when you call to mind that each report introduces to your notice some new symptom or important change or modification ofCASE OF CATALEPSY. 239 the disease^ you must perceive the propriety of sacrificing a httle time and attention to accuracy of description; for instance^ the neuralgic affection, with which she was origi- nally attacked, continued with Httle intermission for nearly six months, when it suddenly left her on the 1st of Novem- ber, in consequence of the supervention of a paroxysm of hysteria. The cataleptic symptoms appeared for the first time on the 21st of the same month, and ever since that period the case has been of a mixed character, alternately presenting the symptoms both of hysteria and catalepsy. I will not now detain you with lengthened commentaries on the numerous, and I may add, anomalous symptoms, which have been already described. However, there is one to which I feel it necessary to call your special attention : I allude to the loss of speech, wliich took place on the 13th of November, and did not return till the 25th of December. Although this symptom is by no means an uncommon occurrence in hysterical patients, I am not aware that there is any case on record, in wliich ■m■^^tism continued so long without interruption as in this instance. There is one mentioned by Andral, in which the patient, a fem.ale, twenty- six years old, suddenly recovered her speech at the end of ten days' dumbness. It is a cmious fact, worthy of recol- lection, that in tliis instance, as in the case of our patient, the power of articulation returned immediately after a fit of vomiting. I regret to state, that this very strange pheno- inenon wiU not admit of a satisfactory explanation; it cannot be accounted for in the usual way by a reference either to a defect in the inteUectual faculties, or paralysis of the tongue, as she was perfectly intelligent, and could move the latter in every direction with the utmost facility, in the240 CLINICAL SURGERY. absence of tlie paroxysm, nor can we say with confidence, tliat the defect was in the larynx, inasmuch as slie was capa- ble of uttering " a crowing noise." The causes, progress, duration, and the pathological phe- nomena, attendant on nervous diseases, are so variable, and so imperfectly understood, that it is impossible to lay down any one plan of treatment wliich wiU apply to all cases. In our prescriptions we should be guided by the circumstances pecuHar to each individual case. In accordance with this IDrinciple the remedies employed in the case of Mrs. Pinn were numerous and varied as cu'cumstances seemed to indi- cate. Eor example, when the paroxysms were ^dolent and the countenance was suffused, leeches were occasionaUy ap- phed either to the temples, spme, labia, oringumal regions. Embrocations to the temples, and bhsters to the nape of the neck, spine, and epigastrium, were also employed from time to time. IiiternaUy she got purgatives, antispasmochcs, tonics, and emmenagogues of every description. In concludmg this protracted but interesting discussion, permit me to state, although I am vain enough to tliink that the plan of treatment adopted in this case had a bene- ficial influence in moderating the symptoms, that I ought not confidently attribute the present improvement either to the skiU of the medical attendant or the specific efficacy of his prescriptions.CHAPTER II. LECTUEE XI. Hyd/rophohia.—Objection to the name.—The symptoms of the disease loth in the dog and human snbject.—The diseases with which it might he coiifounded, and the diagnostic symp- toms.—The composition of the supposed antidotes and speci- fics.—The Ormskirh medicine.—The Tonquin medicine.— Doctor Mead's medicine.—Palmerius' powder, 8fc. ^c.— The treatment of Hydrophobia.—Conckiding observations with cases, proving that a healthy dog may produce the dis- ease in the human subject! Gentlemen, I wish to call your attention on the present occasion to the consideration of that formidable disease called Hydro- 2ihohia or Rabies Canina; both of these names have hitherto been indiscriminately employed to designate the same complaint, and are objectionable, inasmuch as they are palpable misnomers. It is scarcely necessary for me to remind you, that the word hydrophobia hterally means a dread of water; although this symptom is usually present in the second stage of the disease when it affects the human subject, it never exists in animals of the canine or feline species, in which the disease itseK is generally supposed to originate. The word 'rabies' means machiess, and is there- fore objectionable, inasmuch as the intellectual faculties areCLINICAL SURGERY. 242 often retained to the termination of the case in the human subject; and even dogs, although preternaturally peevish and irritable in most instances, cannot properly speaking, be called rabid or mad, in all cases. Having made these objections to the terms, hydrophobia and rabies, as being calculated to make an erroneous impression on your minds, as to the necessity of certain symptoms being present, in order to constitute a perfect instance of the disease which we are about to consider, I will now proceed with a few observations, on its origin and progress as observed in the dog. It is now very generally admitted that hydrophobia can originate only in animals of the camne and feline species ; such as the dog, cat, fox, woK, &c.; but when once estab- lished in them, that they can communicate it not only to other animals of their own classes, but likewise to herbi- vorous, granivorous, and omnivorous animals. Hence it is, that the disease, may be met with in cows, sheep, birds, pigs and man. 'Few individuals have opportunities of ob- serving the origin, and progress of the disease in the dog, but as the writer of the article " Dog'' in Eees's Cyclopaedia states, that he has not only seen, but particularly observed its progress in two hundred cases, and nearly one hundred dissections of dogs wliich died of it, and as his description is considered the best Ave have on the subject; although somewhat prolix, I wih endeavour to select from it, the passages which I consider most deserving of attention. It has been emphatically asserted by tliis writer that the first symptom of the disease in a dog, is characterised " by some peculiarity of manner; some strange departure from243 LECTURE XI. his usual habits; and the peculiarity cannot be laid too much stress on, for it is an almost invariable, and never fail- ing criterion of the complaint. In a very great number of instances the peculiarity , consists ia a disposition, to pick up straws, bits of paper, rags, threads, or the smallest objects that may He on the floor; and tliis is industriously perse- vered in until the floor or carpet is actually cleared of every small object; this pecuhar characteristic is very common in small dogs. An attachment to the sensation of cold appears in many cases, it being very common to observe them lick- ing cold iron, cold stones, &c. &c. An early antipathy to dogs and cats is very commonly observed; but particularly to cats; this is almost invariable; the progress of irrita- bility is often very clear, the cats are the first objects of their anger, next strange dogs; as the disease advances they do not spare the dogs they are domesticated with, and lastly the persons around; but except in a moment of irri- tability they seldom absolutely attack any human being. The irritabihty which induces them to bite is very strong, but devoid of wildness. It is more hke the peevishness of a child than fury. We speak of domesticated dogs; in them the same gentleness, attachment and obedience, are observed during the first days of the disease; by degrees, however, he gently snaps at them or runs at their feet as in play, and will not bite, but take their hand or foot in his mouth; but a stick held up even in this stage, is sure to excite his anger to a violent degree even against those he is most fond of. This is a very strong symptom, and almost a certain criterion; throughout the disease there is a won- derful unpatience of controul, and the animal is with great difficulty frightened, although in some instances we have244 CLINICAL SURGERY. observed the meekness of temper last tlirougliout the dis- ease. In most cases there is a very treacherous disposition observed; a dog labouring under rabies^ if called^ comes, wags his tail, and shows every mark of fondness, seems pleased with attention, but on a sudden he turns and snaps. Some dogs have a violent inflammation of the mouth and throat, wliich produces a total inabihty to bark; tliis by sportsmen is termed dumb madness; but when any noise is made, wliich occurs in two-thirds of the cases that happen, tliis very noise forms the truest character of the disease. It consists in a very remarkable short howl, or lengthened bark ; it partakes of both, and when once heard can never be forgotten or mistaken. It resembles the giving tongue of a slow heavy hound, and is commonly made with the head up in the air. There is great distress apparent in the countenance, with a quick anxious look; the eyes are always red, frequently so inflamed as to produce matter, and the sight in some instances becomes deceptive, and the dog will snap at imaginary objects. In most instances a tendency to gnaw whatever object happens to be near them is very great, such as the chain or rope with which they may be restrained, or the vessel in wluch they were given then- food. The anxiety to escape is a very remarkable feature in tlie disease; it is not the efl-ect of dehrium or pain, as has been supposed; on the contrary, when a dog has escap(.d, he constantly returns home again unless worried and hunted; but it is, as it were, a peculiar desire to propagate the dis- ease, for he travels, industriously seeking objects to bite. He 'anxiously seeks dogs, horses, cows and sheep, but sel- dom human beings, and when ha^^ng tired himself, if notLECTURE XI. 245 molested he will return home. It is said by some that a rabid dog will not turn out of liis road to bite, but this can only'apply to the last stage of the disease; for in the middle stage, when the mischievous propensity is the strongest, and when the dog is strong and most active, he is industrious hi seekuag objects, it is in fact his sole pur- suit. In no instance is there any aversion to water, but on the contrary, the fever accompanying the disease makes the dogs very tliirsty, and they are continually lapping, although in some instances unable to swaHow. The complaint is generally accompanied with costiveness, and there is evident mark of pain and uneasiness in the bowels, in ahnost every instance. " We have dissected carefully nearly one hundred cases in every stage of the complaint, and under every variety of the disease, and some appearances have been found common to all more or less; every instance shows inflammation of the stomach and bowels, together with the lungs; but these are by no means in equal degrees. In those cases where there were much restlessness, violent panting, much mis- cliievous tendency with almost incessant barking, inflamnia- tion of the lungs was found to be most excessive; and that of the bowels, never without some, but comparatively Httle. When there is more mildness and the dog eats straw and unusual substances, it wiU be found that the stomach and bowels are chiefly inflamed. In some, the tliroat alone is affected, producing a difficulty of swallowing and a very odd choking noise; in others the whole mouth is affected, the tongue inflamed, and nearly black, the jaw drops and the slaver runs fast from the mouth, and there seems to be a total paralysis of the parts. There is seldom much mis-CLINICAL SURGERY. 246 cliievous tendency in tliis variety of the disease, on the contrary, some dogs I suppose, are to the full as mild and as tractable as at any other time, and show not the smallest disposition to bite throughout. We have seen the most tender offices bestowed in many instances of this kind, not only with impunity, but with gi-eat expressions of gratitude from the suffering animal. " In the wild kind there is a very slight redness in the vessels of the brain; in almost every instance, the stomach is filled Math unnatm'al substances, such as stones, straws, coal, wood, and whatever can be got at. It is a remarkable fact, but it has occurred to us so often, that we are positive as to its existence, that if in the progress of the complaint any great violence is offered to the animal the disease seems to be -arrested, and he lives more days than he otherwise would have done, judging fi'om analogy. The duration of the disease is various, it seldom destroys before the third day, and few survive the seventh. The average number die on the fourth or fifth day from the first appearance of the complaint."" Such, gentlemen, is the description of the disease as manifested in the dog, and given to us by the writer in the Cyclopaedia for 1807. Judging from the style of the author, I would suppose his acquaintance both with medical science, and the Enghsh language was very imperfect; however, this is considered the most accurate and faithful account of the disease in the dog, which has as yet been published in any work on the subject. Do you think that it is possible for any one to form a correct opinion as to the nature of a doubtful case, who takes for his guide the paradoxical description which I have quoted, when247 LECTURE XI. iu one pai't we are told that the dog actuated by "a pecidiar anxiety to propagate the disease, he travels, indus- triously seeking for objects to bite and in a few lines lower down a most formidable description of the symptoms concludes with the following passage:—" There is seldom much miscluevous tendency in this variety of the disease; on the contrary, some are to the full, as mild and tractable as at any other time, and show not the smallest disposition to bite throughout." Now, I repeat it, how is it possible for us to form a correct opinion, from such a description, as to what assemblage of symptoms constitutes the disease in a dog, by which he is enabled to communicate by inocu- lation, a complaint to the human siibject, the pathognomonic symptom of which (di-ead of water,) never existed in the animal at any stage of its illness ? Gentlemen, I feel that the discussion of this knotty question would be premature just now, I will therefore, postpone it, until after we shall have considered the subject in a general way. Let ns now inquire what are the alleged primary causes of the disease as it appears in the canine and fehne species ? I have aheady stated, that it may originate in these animals and so I believe it may, just as typhus fever or smaU-pox may attack the human race without our being able, in many instances, to account for the supervention of these formidable complaints. "We know equally weU, that when these diseases are once estabhshed, they may be propa- gated in either of two ways, namely, by contagion or inocu- lation. That animals previously in good health may become affected with hydrophobia, independently of inoculation, is a fact so generally admitted, that it would be an idle waste of time to dwell upon its consideration. It was formerly sup-248 CLINICAL SURGERY. posed by "vniters of eminence tliat certain circumstances, to which clogs are sometimes exposed might be considered in the hglit of occasional causes of hydrophobia. The circxmi- stances to which I allude are extremes of temj)erature, want of food; or, a bad description of food. Such opinions are now very generally abandoned as untenable, Mr. J. Hunter tells us that there was not a case of hydrophobia in Jamaica for forty years, although dogs are exceedingly numerous in that island. Baeon Lahe-ey informs his readers that the disease is unknown in Egypt, notwithstand- ing the great heat of the chmate. There is no foundation whatever for the popular opinion which prevails in this country, that dogs are more likely to go mad in hot than in cold weather. As to the influence which privations and bad air might exert in producing the disease in dogs, it has been tested to a most disgusting extent by the experi- ments of Magendie, Ddpuytren, and Bbeschet. They kept a number of dogs for a longtime in a horrible state of uncleanHness, without food or water, allowing them to die of starvation and devour each other, without producing rabies. Gentlemen, I have aheady told you that the dog, cat, and other animals of their species are capable of communicating the disease under consideration, to herbivorous, granivorous, and omnivorous animals; let us now inquire if the latter classes, when affected themselves, be capable of imparting it to each other, or to any class of healthy animals ? The great weight of authority is agamst the supposition that they can do so. Mr. S. Cooper has, with liis usual zeal in the cause of science, collected so much important information on tliis point, that I will avail myself of his indefatigable industry by quoting fi'om his invaluable work :—249 LECTURE XI. " In a memoir read to the Erencla Institute, M. Huzaru explained, that herbivorous quadrupeds affected with rabies are incapable of transmitting the disease; a position sub- sequently confirmed by additional experiments and observa- tions made in the veterinary school at AKort. M. Gibard and Yatel inoculated^ with the saliva of rabid sheep, two other sheep, a young dog, and a horse, but none of these animals evinced any symptoms of the disease and continued weU for four months after the experiment. Professor DuPTJY could never communicate the distemper to cows or sheep by rubbiag their wounds Avith a sponge which animals of the same class, already labouring under the disease, had in their mouths; though the same experiment made with a sponge which had been bitten by a rabid dog propagated rabies by a kind of inoculation. Dupuy has seen amongst several flocks, sheep aff'ected with rabies, yet the distemper was never communicated by them to other sheep, not- withstanding the latter were bitten on parts stripped of the wool. Doctor Gilman inoculated two rabbits with the saliva of a rabid pig; but the disease was not communicated to them. '^Another question of considerable importance is, whether hydrophobia (rabies) can be communicated from one human being to another, or whether in men the disease is infectious or contagious ? Many attempts have been made in vain, to communicate the distemper to several kinds of animals by inoculating them with the sahva of patients who had perished of the disease. These experiments were made in tliis country by Gatjthier, Yaughan, Babington, &c., but no infection was the consequence. In France Girard inoculated several dogs \nth the sahva of a man in the cou- M 2CLINICAL SURGERY. vulsed stage of hych'ophobia, but none of them took the distemper/' A gi-eat number of similar experiments attended with similar results were made by M. GirauDj M. Pauoisse, and Doctob, Bezard ; but an experiment of much importance, and wliich might lead to an opposite opinion was made in the Hotel Lieu, in Paris, in 1813, by Breschet and Magendie. On the 13th of June tliey took some of the sahva of a man inunediately after he had died of hydrophobia, and conveyed it by means of a rag a few paces from the bed of the deceased, and inoculated two healthy dogs. One of the dogs became rabid on tlie 27th of July, and bit two others j one of which was attacked with rabies on the 26th of August. This is a very remark- able experiment, and the only one, out of hundreds of the kind wliich was succeeded by such a result. When you recollect this, you should hesitate before you attribute the rabid state of the dog, to the fact of his having been inoculated. It is both unpliilosophical and illogical to draw a general conclusion from a particular instance. Again, inasmuch as the disease might have originated in the dog independently of the experiment; you should, in the present state of our knowledge on tliis subject, look upon the fact of the dog having become rabid, in the light of a coincidental cu-cumstance, rather than as conclusive evidence of the effect of the experiment. Thh-ty-tlnee years have elapsed since the experiment was performed, and I have not heard or read of any case wliich has occurred witliin that long period corroborative of the effect attributed by some, to the isolated one I have mentioned. I therefore think we are not warranted, from the facts on record whicli relate to this formidable disease, in believing that it can be251 LECTURE XI. communicated either by infection or inoculation from one human being to another, or from the human subject to any other animalj or class of animals. It appeal's that the human race can be affected only by the saliva of an animal of the canine or feline species, appHed either to a wound, ulcer, or abraded surface. I say only with the sahva, for there are instances on record where sheep, pigs, and cattle which died of hydrophobia, and after their interment were exliumed and eaten by the people in the neighbourhood, and no bad consequence whatever ensued. I knew an instance myself which occurred some years ago, where a milch cow was bitten in the ear by a dog wliich was considered rabid, and destroyed: in about three weeks after the cow was bitten, she became ill, and continued so for three or four days, when she died. The cow was regu- larly milked night and morning as long as any could be got from her; and the milk made use of by the family, yet no bad consequences followed. This oc- curred out at Cabra; Mr. "Watts the eminent veterinary surgeon saw the cow on the day before she died, and declared the case to be one of hydrophobia; and from all I heard from the family on the subject, I have no doubt on my mind, as to the correctness of Mr. Watts' opinion. Let us now suppose a case in which a healthy person had been bitten by a rabid dog, and that no steps whatever were taken after the infliction of the bite, with a view to prevent the disease becoming estabhshed—must such a per- son necessarily become affticted with hydrophobia ? No, not necessarily, for the human subject appears not very susceptible of the disease. According to the experience of Dr. John Huntee, not more than one person out of every252 CLINICAL SUUGEIIY. twenty bitten, is subsequently attacked with liydropliobia. Dr. Hamilton, who has taken great pains to obtain infor- mation on this subject, is of opinion that not more than one out of sixteen persons, bitten by rabid animals, become afflicted with the disease. Tlie comparative inaptitude on the part of the human subject, to become affected by hydi-ophobia, may be accounted for in two ways :—Firstly, a want of constitu- tional predisposition or susceptibility. Secondly, the in- complete apphcation of the virus, which must occur in many instances. I'or example, if a person should be bitten through two or tlu-ee layers of clothing, the poisoned saliva will not be inserted into the wound, the teeth having been cleaned before they inflicted it. That the effect is modified in this way, is well known from experience, for the chance of the disease succeeding a bite, is much greater when a person happens to be bitten on a naked part, than if it were inflicted thi-ough the clothes. The consequence is, that the bites of those animals which usuaUy aim at the face, such as the wolf, Ssc. are much more dangerous than of those, which appear to be indifferent as to the parts they lay hold of. Twenty-thi-ee persons were on one occasion bitten in Prance by a wolf, and thirteen of them subsequently died of hydrophobia. In another in- stance twenty-four persons were bitten near Eochelle, and eighteen of them got the disease, and of course died. Per- haps in addition to the explanation I have now mentioned, the fact of the woH inflicting a deeper wound than the gene- rality of dogs are capable of doing, may be considered an another reason why the bite of the former is more dange- rous than that of the latter.LECTURE XI. 253 The length of time wliich may elapse between the inflic- tion of the bite and the first appearance of hydrophobic symptoms in the human species, is subject to great variety; the majority of the persons bitten, are attacked between the tlm-tieth and fortieth day. It appears from a list of a hundred and tliii'ty-one cases, that none became afl^ected before the eleventh, and only thi'ee before the eighteenth day. The records of medicine supply instances in wliich the disease appeared so late as eighteen or twenty years after inoculation. Those extreme cases are not much rehed on at the present day, and I believe there is httle or no danger to be apprehended when twelve or eighteen months have elapsed, after the bite has been inflicted. The original wound generally heals within the same time, that wounds of equal size, though otherwise inflicted do, the virus not in any way exerting its influence for a long and indefinite time, after the process of cicatrization has been completed. When the disease commences, the patient usually experiences a feeling of uneasi:iess in the cicatrix and the parts in its vicinity, which often become red and inflamed. In some instances the new skin is absorbed, and an ulcer formed, which furnishes a thin discharge; this however is a very rare occurrence. The patient usually complains of pain in the part affected, wliich extends towards the trunk, if an extremity should be bitten. If it should so happen, that the hand is the part affected, the pain will run up along the arm, and wiU be often acutely felt in the shoulder and thorax. The lymphatic glands are not engaged, nor do the absorbent vessels leading from the wound or cicatrix, as the case may be, appear to be influenced in the shghtest degree; however, you are to bear in mind, that254 CLINICAL SURGERY. the local symptoms, wliicli I have now described, may never occur; consequently, they are not essential, or necessarily present i]i aU cases. The constitutional, or general symp- toms, are not the same tlu'oughout the disease; this has given rise to the division of it, into two stages. The patient during the first stage is dull and desponding, complains of head-ache, and wishes to be alone; his appetite is bad, and Ms eyes suffused. There appears to be a general increase of sensibihty; the hght is disagreeable, and he accordingly seeks the shade; a moderate degree of noise is very un- pleasant, and sometimes the sensibihty of the surface be- comes so exquisitely acute, that the patient cannot bear to have the skin, or even the hair touched, Avithout expe- riencing a most painful degree of excitement, almost amounting to a general agitation of the entire system. The pulse is not materially affected, nor is there fever, or ahenation of the mental faculties at this period. Some patients will continue pretty much in tins state for three or four days, and others not more than one or two, when the second stage becomes established by the supervention of the pathognomonic symptom, a dread of hquids. Now, the sight of water, or any attempt to drink hquids of any kind, throws the patient into a violent convulsive paroxysm, attended with a feehng of suffocation, and a sense of con- striction in the pharynx. During the paroxysms the face is flushed, the features distorted, the breathing hurried, and the pulse quick and irregular-. The intellectual faculties are also impaired during the paroxysm, but when it subsides there is a general cahn: the face becomes pale, and the pulse and respiration more natural; the intellectual facul- ties retm-n, and the patient appears much exhausted. Sick-LECTURE XI. 265 ness of stomacli, vomitiBg, and pain in the epigastrium, are almost always present in tliis stage of the complaint: an inordinate secretion of tenacious mucus, which adheres to the fauces, is another very disagreeable symptom which annoys the patient very much, the bowels are usually con- fined, and the urine copious. As the disease advances, the paroxysms become more frequent and violent than before, and the most trivial cause wiU be sufficient to pro- duce them. The noise of a pump, the splashing of hquids, the clatter of cliina, glass, or earthen-ware, or anytliing associated with the idea of fluids, will usually give rise to them; and in some cases the sight of a mirror, polished silver, or even a blast of cold air, will be sufficient to repro- duce them ia their most Adolent form. In the third or last stage of hydrophobia, the countenance is anxious, the fea- tures horribly distorted, the respiration laborious, and the pulse quick, small, and irregular. The mind is now, in the majority of instances, very much affected, and it is some- times necessary to have recourse to measures of restraint iu order to prevent the patient doing injury to himself, or those about him; however, in many cases the unfortunate sufferers are rational and docile to the last, and it sometimes happens that the horror of liquids wiU subside, and the patient becomes able to drink before he expires. The length of time which hydrophobic patients may survive after the appearance of the pathognomonic symptoms is variable; they seldom live longer than six days, and sometimes not more than one, when they die either in a convul- sive fit, or in a state of perfect calmness, having been com- pletely worn out by the exliausting efi'ects of the paroxysms. The post mortem appearances found in the human sub-256 CLINICAI SURGERY. ject do not materially differ from those I have already described, when speaking of the effects of the disease in the dog. They consist chiefly of a congested state of the blood- vessels of the brain, thoracic viscera, and spinal marrow : serous effusions have likewise been occasionally met with in the cranium and spinal canal, attended with opacity and thickening of certain portions of the arachnoid membrane. The gastro-pulmonary mucous membrane often presents marks of inflammatory action, winch are more obvious in the pharynx, larynx, trachea, bronclii, oesophagus, and stomach, than in the intestines. The air passages are usually filled up with frothy mucus. There are certain affections which have been occasionally mistaken for genuine hydrophobia. A difficulty of swallow- ing liquids is a symptom which sometimes occurs in persons affected with nervous diseases such as hysteria, epilepsy, &c. Mental emotion may likewise give rise to it; there may also be some pecuhar circumstances connected with the history of an equivocal case which might lead a person to form an erroneous opinion as to its real nature. Suppose, for instance, that a hysterical female were bitten by a strange dog, the fright and apprehension of becoming affected with hydro- phobia, may bring on an attack of hysteria, and one of the symptoms may be an inability to swallow hquids. Such a case woidd be well calculated to excite alarm, amongst per- sons unacquainted with the symptoms which both diseases occasionally have in common; however, a httle reflection on the history of the case, the sex, age, and constitution of the patient will enable you to calm the fears of the patient and all parties interested. If the difficulty of swallowing should come on immediately after the bite, you may be certain thatlECTUKE XI. 257 the case vnQ. end favourably; at all events tlie present symptoms will pass away, inasmuch as ihe genuine hydro- phobia of canine origin never exerts its baleful influence in the human subject for many days, weeks, or perhaps months after the primary injury. There was a curious but very interesting case published in the London Medical and Sur- gical Journal some years since, to the following effect:— A gentleman was bitten by his own dog, after which the dog left home. As soon as it was missed, the owner became alarmed, fearing it had gone mad; he was seized with an aversion to fluids, and an inabihty to drink, and continued in this state for four days ; at the end of which time the dog returned in good health. On the master seeing that the animal was not mad he became delighted, and the hydrophobic symptoms instantly vanished. Traumatic tetanus is a disease, which may be mistaken for hydrophobia, in consequence of certain phenomena which both diseases have in common. The wound inflicted by a dog may cause either tetanus, or hydro- phobia ; both diseases are attended with paroxysms, a dis- agreeable sensation in the throat, attended with a difficulty of swallowing liquids, and pain in the epigastrium. Not- withstanding these points of similarity, it is by no means difficult, for a well informed medical man, to distinguish between the two diseases. For instance, tetanus generally commences, between the fourth and twentieth day, after the infliction of the wound; wMst hydrophobia seldom makes its appearance in the human subject, sooner than a month after the bite : in tetanus, the pathognomonic symp- torn of the disease, is a difficulty or impossibihty of opening the month, the inability to swallow, being only a secondary.258 CLINICAL SURGERY. or subordinate symptom; whereas in hydrophobia the aversion to fluids, and the impossibility of swallowing them, constitute the characteristic symptoms of the disease, whilst there is no difficulty whatever in opening the mouth: the paroxysm in tetanus chiefly consists of a spasm of certain voluntary muscles, such as those of the face, neck, spine, &c. which is not succeeded by perfect relaxation; in a paroxysm of hydrophobia the muscles are convulsively affected, and when the fit is over, they become perfectly re- laxed : in tetanus, the intellectual faculties are never im- paired, except by the opium which is generally administered in large doses; whilst in the advanced stages of hydro- phobia, more especially during the paroxysms, the intellec- tual faculties are usually impaired, quite irrespective of the effects of medicine. Thus you may perceive, that it is not difficult, for a person of moderate attainments in medical science, to distinguish between these two formidable dis- eases. Gentlemen, we are now prepared to consider the different methods of treatment wMch have been employed from time to time, by practitioners of every denomination, either with a view to prevent the development of the disease, in persons who have been bitten, or of curing it when fully estabhshed. I fear you will not deem the observations, which I have to make on tliis part of our subject, satisfactory. It is an estabhshed maxim both in and out of the medical profession, that "prevention is better than cure," even in refer- ence to maladies of a curable nature; if so, how dearly we ought to appreciate the principle, and carry it out to the utmost of our capability, in practice, when we have reason to apprehend the approach of a disease, wliich in the present state ofLECTURE XI. 259 medical science, we cannot pronounce remediable ! Let us in the fii-st instance consider tlie antidotes wliicli have been recommended and employed, together with their modes of administration. The means wliich have been recommended with a view to prevent hydrophobia, may be divided into the local and general: the local include such remedies as have been ap- phed to the part bitten, and in reference to the canine species the ridiculous operation of " worming the tongue^' as it was absurdly designated, must also be included. The general antidotes consist of certain empuical nostrums supposed by their advocates to possess inherent powers, by which the constitutions of the individuals who were so fortunate as to partake of them, were rendered unsus- ceptible of the disease. Under the head of local remedies worthy of recollection, are abhdion, suction, caustics, and excision. When called on to attend a person bitten by a dog, cat, &C.J you should, in the first iustance, wash out the wound with the utmost care. Tor this purpose, perhaps the best method of proceeding would be, to get an assistant to separate as far as possible, the Hps of the wound with his fingers, whilst the surgeon should pour water into it from a height out of a kettle, or some such vessel; the sponge being used repeatedly whilst the water continues to flow. Cupping glasses should next be applied over the wound, as recom- mended by Sir David Bauey, provided the bitten part be so situated as to admit of their application. If the wound should be in a fleshy part, and the patient willing to submit, the most efficacious method of proceeding would be, to excise the entire of the textures engaged. If the fingers or toes happen to be the seat of the injury, they ought to be am-260 CLINICAL SURGERY. putated, inasmuch^ as tliey are parts wlucli'can be dispensed with; but if the nose were the seat of the injury, I think it would be too great a aacrifice to have it cut off, on the calculation of preventing the occurrence of a disease, wliich would perhaps never become established, if the case were left altogether to itself. I would in such a case as this, having first washed the part as well as possible, apply some violent Uquid caustic, such as the liquor potassee, the muriate of antimony, or one of the mineral acids. The number and varieties of the medicines, which have been administered internally as antidotes, are very great indeed: the writer of the article "Dog," inEees's Cyclopedia, expresses liimself thus on the subject:—" We know of no instance of the complaint being cured, nor have we ever attempted anything of this kind, but we flatter ourselves that we have been successful in bringing forward a preven- tative ; we claim not the discovery of tliis most valuable and truly important remedy; we only, by exertion, revived it from obHvion, and by a long course of well conducted experiments, have estabhshed the certainty of its ef&cacy. Out of more than ninety animals, as horses, sheep, swine, and dogs, one only has gone mad to which this remedy was administered; and this failure did not occur under our own immediate inspection. Tliis remedy was detailed by us so early as December 1807, in the Medical Review for that month, when every circumstance relative to the original recipe is communicated. This remedy, as prepared by us, is as follows'.— "Take of the fresh leaves of the tree, box; and of the fresh leaves of rue, two ounces, and half an ounce of sage. Chop these fine and boil them in a pint of water down to261 lECTURE XI. half a pint; strain careMy and press out the liquor fii-mly, put back the ingredients into a pint of milk and boil again to half a pint, strain as before; mix both Hquors which forms three doses for a human subject: double tliis quantity is proper for a horse or cow. Two-thirds of the quantity is sufficient for a large dog, haK for amiddhng sized, and one- third for a small dog. Three doses are sufficient given each subsequent morning fasting; the quantity du'ected being that which forms these three doses. As it sometunes produces strong effects on dogs, it may be proper to begin with a small dose, but we hold it is always prudent to increase the dose till effects are evident by the sickness, panting, and uneasi- ness of the dog. In the human subject where the remedy appears to be equally efficacious, we have never witnessed any unpleasant effects. About forty human beings have taken the remedy, and in every instance it has succeeded equally as with inferior animals; but candour obhges us to notice, that in a considerable portion of them other means were used, as the actual or potential cautery ; but in all the other animals other means were purposely omitted. That this remedy, therefore, has a preventive quahty is unques- tionable, and now perfectly estabhshed; for there was not the smallest doubt of the animals mentioned either having been bitten, or of the dogs being mad wliich bit them, as great pains were taken in every instance to ascertain these points/'' Such is the statement of the writer in the Cyclo- psedia, whom we are to suppose was a person, who had charac- ter for observation and veracity, or his writings and opinions on a subject of such grave importance, would not obtain in- sertion in a work of such liigh reputation. However, you are not to understand me as adopting either his opinions or theCLINICAL SURGEHY. 262 language in whicli they are conveyed; you must judge for yourselves. I can do no more on tlie present occasion than afford you an opportunity of reflecting on the sub- ject. I will now read from Doctor Hamilton's excellent work a description of some of the quack medicines which were formerly administered by several persons of intelligence, and even medical men of eminence, under the supposition that they possessed some specific quahties by wliich they were capable of preventing, if not cming hydrophobia. The first is, what was known for many years by the name of the " OrmsUrk medicine" and had the reputation of being an unerring specific throughout the North of England; and which even at the present day retains a high character with many persons. This was for a long time sold as a patent medicine of mysterious composition. In the year 1777 it was analysed by Mr. Heysham and Doctor Black, and found to consist of "haK an ounce of powdered chalk; ten grains of alum; three drachms of armenian bole; one drachm of elecampane root, and six drops of oil of anise." AH these ingredients are very inert in their operation on the living body, and remarkable only for then: astringent pro- perties. The next of these patent medicines which I will submit for your consideration, is what is called the " TonqvAn medi- cine" it was first introduced into England by Su- George Cob as being a very valuable remedy that was deemed infalhble by the Chinese. It lias been ascer- tained by chemical analysis that tliis " infallible specific" consists of the following inert substances:—Twenty-four grains of native, and the same quantity of factitious cinna-LECTURE XI. 263 bai-;, with sixteen grains of musk, powdered, and mixed together." It is scai'cely necessary for me to tell you, that " this infalhble remed/' appears to be composed of as inert materials, as the Ormskirk medicine. The musk is certainly a powerful anti-spasmodic, and might be deemed a feasible remedy, if the disease were actually estabKslied, but how it could act as an antidote, it is difficult to comprehend. There was at one time a favourite antidote strongly recommended by Doctor Mead, wliich was composed of ash-coloured ground Uverwort and black pepper; but it got into disuse in the course of time, and even the Doctor himself lost confidence in it before his death; and recommended as a substitute "a vegetable substance called Jew's-ear" which was first introduced by a Mr. Dampier. The next specific is the celebrated powder of Palmerius, "whose power to operate a cure he believed was sufficient, even though the patient should neglect all due treatment of his wound or observation in his diet." The prescription is as follows:—" Take of the leaves of rue, vervain, sage of virtue, plaintain, common wormwood, mint, mugwort, balm, betony, St. Jolm's-wort and of the lesser centaury, each equal parts by weight." "When these were, to be used, they were to be reduced separately into a fine powder, a drachm of which was to be administered daily to the bitten patient, mixed with twice as much sugar, in a draught of wine, cider, or broth; or made into an electuary with honey, to be swallowed three hours before taking food." To the antidotes I have already mentioned, many more might be added, such as frequent submersion in the sea, the root of the dog-briar, "the broiled hver of the mad dog," and other delicate " morceaux" of tliis kind wliich I do not think it necessary to enumerate.264 CLINICAL SURGERY. I fear that the pains I have taken to acquire information relative to these supposed antidotes, is calculated to convey the idea, that I attach some importance to their adminis- tration, and have some faith in their efficacy. Tliis I totally disclaim, and firmly beheve they are perfectly wortliless as prophylactic remedies, and that notliing is cal- culated to prove useful as such, but the local measures I have already mentioned. In those cases where the empiri- cal nostrums were administered after the bites had been inflicted, it is unfair to infer that the non-appearance of the disease at a subsequent period, was attributable to their anti-hydrophobic powers. I have aheady stated, that Dr. John Hunter, was of opinion, that not more than one out of twenty persons bitten, would become afflicted with the disease, even if they were left to chance; and that accord- ing to Dr. Hamilton's computation, not more than one in seventeen. Under these circumstances, and in the absence of any proof to the contrary, it is much more rational to sui^pose that the absence of the disease in such cases, de- pended more on imperfect inoculation, or want of suscepti- bility on the part of the bitten animals, to become affected by the virus, than to imagine that its development was pre- vented by the administration of such inert and absurd nos- trums as I have described. Let us now suppose a case in the human subject, where the hydrophobic symptoms have been unequivocally estab- lished, and inquii-e what ought to be done, with a view to reheve the patient? I regi-et exceedingly, that neither ex- perience of the past, nor our knowledge of the present state of medical science, enable me to give a satisfactory answer to this question. Tlie disease so completdy changes the265 LECTURK XI. constitutions of such animals as have the misfortune to be affected with it, that the most powerful medicines we have at our disposal, appear to have httle or no effect on them. IMagendie dissolved ten grains of opium in water, and in- jected it into the venous system of a dog, without producing any narcotic effect whatever, although one grain of the M^atery extract when injected into the veins of a healthy dog caused him to fall immediately into a profound sleep wliich often continued for eight or ten hours. Similar phenomena take place in the human body. Dupuytben in- jected eight grains of the gummy extract of opium into the radial vein of a young man labouring under hydro- phobia, without any apparent effect. In another case, on the first day that hydi-ophobia became manifest in a man who had been bitten by a mad dog, Dupuytben injected into the saphena vein, two grains of the extract of opium dissolved in distilled water, a certain degree of cahn having followed, four grains more were then thrown into the cepha- lic vein. The patient remained quiet for thi'ee hours longer, but the symptoms subsequently returned with increased violence. The next day eight grains more were dissolved, and injected into the circulating system, but to no purpose, the patient having died in three quarters of an hour after the last injection. All the most powerful medicines, of every class, have been tried repeatedly without any advan- tage ; such, for instance, as arsenic, prussic acid, belladonna, cannabis indica, morpliia, nicotiana, &c. &c. Bleeding, and plungmg the patient into the sea, have likewise been tried repeatedly, and with similar results. It is true that copious bleedmg frequently repeated, had at one time been thouglit useful, and it was even said that persons affected witli NCMNICAI. SUK(iHUY. hydrophobia had actually recovered under such treatment. This practice has, however, been fully tested within the last fifty years, and the general belief amongst the medical men of the present day is, that it is of no use whatever, and that the cases recorded in wliich it was supposed to be useful, were not genuine cases of hydrophobia. Magendie having observed in his experiments on ani- mals, that a plethoric state of the vascular system, artifici- ally produced by injecting water into the veins, had the effect of depressing the functions of all the animals upon which he tried the experiment, the functions of the brain and nervoiis system, being particularly affected. Erom having observed these effects he was led to suppose that if water were injected into the venous system, in cases of hydrophobia, it might prove useful. This idea was further encouraged by his knowledge of the fact that the blood of animals suffering from hydrophobia has very little serum in its composition, and that in the human subject there is little or no Hquid taken mto the system during the disease. His first experiment was tried on a rabid dog, from which a pint of blood was drawn, and then sixty ounces, (about two quarts,) were injected into the jugular vein; about ten or twelve ounces of blood mixed with water, were allowed to flow out dm-ing the latter part of the operation. The animal which had been furious, became tranquil immediately after the operation; however, in about five hours afterwards it was seized with a diEBculty of breathing, wliich proved fatal in half an hour. On the 15th of October, 1823, Magendie injected a pint of water of moderate temperatui-e, into the veins of a man's arm who was suffering from hydrophobia in the advanced stage;LECTURE XI. 267 immediately after the operation, as in the case of the dog, the patient who had been furious became tranquil, and the pulse gradually fell from 150 to 80, in the space of twenty minutes. The convulsive motions ceased and the patient di-ank a glass of water without difficulty: he had some hemorrhage from the bowels, yet he continued to improve up to the fifth day after the operation, when he was seized with acute pains and swellings in the wrist, knees, and elbows, and also inflammatory symptoms in the leg, which were attributed to a piece of a lancet, previously broken in an attempt made to bleed lum in the foot: despondency and mental derangement returned, and he died on the nuith day after the operation. "On examination after death, the swollen joints were found distended with pusj the mucous membrane of a portion of the small intestines was discoloured by a con- gested state of the veins; there were some ulcerated spots in the ileon near its termination in the coecum; the blood was putrid; the heart and large vessels distended with gas and the posterior parts of the lungs in a state of con- gestion." There is but Httle doubt that tliis experiment produced a decided impression on the disease, and that the patient lived longer than he should have done, had it not been performed; still, when we know that the injection of any foreign sub- stance into the venous system, usually causes death, it be- comes a question of conscience as to whether its repetition would be justifiable or not. It appears to me that such practice, although more scientific, is only a degree removed from the murderous system of smothering hydrophobic patients between two feather beds. I am almost ashamedCMNICAL SUKGKUY. 268 to tell you, that witliin the last three years in this country, a man was tried and found guilty, for having assisted in smotherins liis own brother in the manner I have alluded to. The jury, however, recommended liim to mercy, on the grounds, that he thought he was doing not only a legal, but a humane act, when committing the revolting crime of fratricide! SUPPLEMENTAL OBSERVATIONS, WITH TWELVE CASES Proving that a tame, or healthy dog may produce hydro- phobia in the human stiiject. Erom what has been stated in the preceding lecture it is obvious that hydrophobia, talcen in the hteral meaning of the word, is a disease to which dogs are not hable, inas- much as all writers on the subject agree in assertmg that annuals of the canine and feline species, when said to be affected with it, appear to have no dread of water whatever; on the contrary, they will run tln:ough it, swhn through it, " and in no instance refuse to lap it." This being the case, how did the term hydrophobia become so generally known, or why is it employed to designate the formidable disease under consideration ? The solution of the question is sim- ply as follows :—Sad experience has convinced many of the most intelligent members of society, that a disease of a most formidable and incui-able nature, the leading symptom of which is a dread of water, occasionally occurs in the lumiaji269 HYDROPHOBIA. subject in consequeuce of tlie bites of clogs, cats, and ani- mals of their species. Experience and a careful investiga- tion of tlie subject, have convinced me that it is a great mis- take to suj)pose that hydi-ophobia cannot be caused by the bite of a tame or healthy dog. Some of my medical friends with whom I have spoken on this subject, go so far as to say, they believe that when a dog is enraged, although otherwise healthy, he may communicate the disease. To the correctness of this opinion I most wiUingly subscribe, and will now proceed to illustrate it by a reference to cases. In the pubhshed lectures of the late Dr. Colles of tliis city, the following important passage is to be found:— " There are, however, sufficient grounds for the belief that an animal not itsehP affected with hydrophobia, can never- theless give it to others by biting them. The elder Mr. Dease used to mention a circumstance when I first heard him lecture, of an ostler who was playing with liis dog, he used to hold up his arm for the dog to leap up to it, and when it did so, he used to shake him off asain : the dog, however, got vexed and bit the man's arm, and the consequence was the man got hydrophobia, although the dog was not mad nor did he ever get mad, for he was tied up to ascertain the fact." A few weeks since I had a conversation with Sir Philip Ceampton on this subject, when he related a case in point to the follomng effect:—" About tliirty years ago, as a coachman of the late Chief Justice Saurin, was walking in the neighbourhood of Donnybrook, with his own tender trotting by his side, a strange dog ran out of a house and a fight between the dogs ensued. The coachman whilst endeavouring to separate them, was bitten by his N 2270 CLINICAL SURGliRY. own dog, and subsequently died of hydrophobia in Sir Patrick Dunn's Hospital. Sir Philip assured me that he saw both the bitten man and the dog in his own house, soon after the accident, and that the dog appeared to him to be in perfect health. I have received a letter within the last few days from my learned friend Dr. Pibuce of TuUamore, in which he des- cribes the leading facts of the case of a Mr. Eigney, who was bitten by his own dog under circumstances similar to those I have just stated. The Doctor wiites thus:—" The dog was in the field with his master, when a dog belonging to a gentleman in the neighbourhood came over the ditch, and a quaiTcl commenced. Mr. Eigney whilst in the act of separating the dogs received a bite from his own dog. Notliiag particular was afterwards observed untd ]\Ir. Eigney became attacked with hydrophobia." The Doctor concludes liis letter thus:—" My own conviction on the subject is, that an enraged animal of the canine orfehne species, is as capa- ble of producing the disease as a mad dog." In the year 1835, the wife of a ferryman named M'Evatt, who resided in the neighbourhood of Barrack-street, whilst chastising a cur of her own, was slightly bitten in the nose. In about three weeks after the accident Mrs. M'Evatt was attacked with hydrophobia, and admitted into the Netterville Dispensary in Blackhall-street, under the care of my friend Mr. White. I saw the case, and there could be no doubt as to its genuine character, although she was able to swallow some liquid on the day she died, which was the sixth after the hydrophobic symptoms first appeared. The dog re- mained at home as usual from the time of the accident until his mistress was attacked with the disease; lie was thenHYDROPHOBIA. 271 destroyed^ although free from all the usual symptoms of canine madness. I am indebted to my friend Dr. Gr. Blood for the particulars of tliis case. He watched it closely tliroughout its course^ and took notes of the symptoms and treatment. About twelve years ago there was a girl ten years old, named Margaret Nolan, alfected with hydrophobia, admitted into Jervis-street Hospital, under the care of my late col- league Mr. Adams. I saw the case and made myself ac- quainted with its liistory: she was bitten in the middle finger of the right hand, two months previous to her admis- sion into the hospital, by her father's terrier dog, which was not considered mad. The dog was killed two days after the accident, in accordance with an absurd notion that if the dog be destroyed whilst he is tame, no bad consequence can at any future period result from the bite. Some years since I visited a patient in Mill-street, whose name was inserted on the books of the Meath-street dispen- sary, and found a fine Httle boy about seven years old labour- ing under the symptoms of hydrophobia. I had him con- veyed to the Meath Hospital, which was then estabhshed on the Coombe, where he died the day after Ins admission. I made a strict inquiry, with a view to find out the par- ticulars of the case, and ascertained the following facts :— " It appeared that about six weeks before the hydropho- bic symptoms occurred, a smith from the estabHshment in Stephen's-green, at present in the possession of Mr. Dycer, went to attend one of Mr. Coulan's horses, and was accompanied by a large quiet-looking dog; wliilst passing through New-row the poor little fellow caught the dog by tlie tail, intending to play M'illi liim, when he immediatelyCLINICAL SURGERY. 272 turned rouud and bit bis band. I subsequently learned tbat tlie dog remained in bis usual state of bealtb for three weeks after the cliild was bitten, when be was killed on tbe grounds tbat be was both peevish and useless." In the month of March 1842, a man named Micliael Conran, a gardener, met a pretty httle lap dog in the road near Ballybougb-bridge, he took bold of it by the back of the neck with one hand, and held it up close to liis face. Wliilst in this position, the dog snapped at Conran and bit liim shghtly in the hp; he let it go immediately, and it ran home into its mistress' house, Mrs. C—y, who resided in the neighbourhood. The sHght wound in tbe hp healed in a few days and notliing particular occurred for six weeks, when tbe poor man was attacked with hydrophobia. The unfortunate sufferer resided in Mecklenburgh-street when the hydrophobic symptoms first appeared, but was soon conveyed to the Eiclunond Hospital, where he died on the tliird day from the commencement of the attack. Previous to his death, he particularly requested that the dog should be destroyed, in order to prevent its domg any more mis- chief. In accordance with this dying request some of Com-an's friends accompanied by a pobceman went to :Mrs. C_y, and found the dog in good health. Mrs. C—y en- treated of tbe pobceman not to destroy her httle dog, as it was not mad, but perfectly harmless. Tbe dog was then taken into custody by the pobceman and brought to tbe head office. The lady followed, still supphcating for mercy, but all in vain, for after a full investigation of the case, it was decided by tbe authorities that the dog should be destroyed forthwith, and it was accordingly put to death in the Castle-yard. I remember having read something aboutHYDROPHOBIA. 273 tliis case in tlie newspaper at the time it occuiTed, but I learned the pai-ticulars from a brother of the deceased this day. There is a case of hydrophobia published in the London Medical and Surgical Journal^ for the year 1835^ which was reported by Dr. Byene, as having been treated in the West- minster Hospital by liimself. It is stated that the patient, whose name was Chester, had been bitten fifteen months before the hydi'ophobic symptoms appeared, " that the dog, which was not his own, was shot some time afterwards on account of paralysis of the hinder extremities, supposed to have been caused by being frequently thrown into water; it evinced no liydrophohic symptom whatever previous to death." I have now briefly described the leading points relative to eight cases of hydrophobia caused by the bites of dogs, and there is no evidence whatever to prove, that in a single instance, the dog was rabid; on the contrary, we have incontrovert- ible proofs both of a positive, and negative character, which must lead the unprejudiced reader to form an opposite opinion. These cases ought, in my mind, be deemed suffi- cient to convince the greatest sceptic, that the bite of a dog, wliich is not rabid, can produce hydrophobia in the human species! The next question for consideration, is,—can a dog in perfect health, in a state of tranquillity, and when it does not bite or attempt to bite, produce hydrophobia in the human subject ? I beheve it can, and in support of this opinion, I will now relate a few well authenticated cases. The late surgeon T. Eoney mentioned to me the case of a young gentleman who had a small ulcer on the skin, for the cure of which, he was recommended by a non-medi- cal acquaintance to get a dog to Hck it. He accordingly got274 CLINICAL SUUGKUY. liis own favourite dog to perform tlie operation; the con- sequence was, that in a few weeks afterwards the credulous invalid died of hydrophobia. In a lecture on hydrophobia, dehvered in London by Mr. Lawbence, and subsequently pubUshed in the Lancet, in 1829, the following passage is to be found :—"In fact, the saliva of the rabid animal must be brought into contact with a recent wound or au ulcer; that is, with a breach of surface on the body. It is not necessary that tliis should be done tlu'ough the medium of a bite. I need scarcely observe to you, that several years ago a case occurred, which attracted pubhc attention very much; it was that of a lady of rank, Mrs. Duff, to whom the disease was com- municated in rather an unusual way. She had a Erench poodle, of wliich she was very fond, and wliich she was in the habit of allowing to hck her face. She had a small pimple on her chin, from wliich she had rubbed off the top; and allowing the dog to indulge in its usual caresses, it licked tliis pimple, of which the sm-face was exposed, and hence the disease of hydrophobia, of which she died." A few years ago a case, or rather two cases sumlar to the one I have just quoted, occurred in the County Cork. A ]V[j.s. D r had a favourite lap-dog, which she occa- sionally allowed to lick her face. Her daughter, ]\Iiss D r, was in the habit of granting it a sunilar pri- vilege; the result was that both of these ladies died of hydrophobia. In giving publicity to the above cases, and expressing my conviction that a healthy dog is capable of communi- cating the disease to the human subject, I am only repeating what I have been stating in my lectures for some yeai-sHYDROPHOUIA. 275 past. I have no object in view beyond calling the atten- tion of the Government, my professional brethren, and the pubKc, to the subject, with a hope that steps will be taken by the proper authorities to get rid of a most dangerous nuisance. To a person, who feels as I do on this subject, it is truly painful to witness the manner in wliich both the streets and squares of Dubhn, are infested with houseless, worthless, hungry, peevish dogs, mixing with cliildren, who innocently fondle and play with them, not knowing that they are in company with a most treacherous and deadly enemy. PINIS.ERRATA. Page 51, line 4 from the top, for " convexity," read " concavity." Page 51, line 7 from the top, for " on bicipital," read " on the bicipital." Page 54, line 9 from the top, for " between the fascia," read "between the ikin and fascia." Page 55, line 14 from the top, for " in its vessels," read " on its vessels." Page 93, line 2 from the bottom, for " form," read "fever." Page 95, line 14 from the top, read " A light poultice should be applied over the wound : the next day the medicine previously ordered." Page 119, line 2, read " the rigors are more violent, and recur more frequently than before."'t'UtiJijJiJJiiiiiiiiiyii