871 THE SCLEROTIC. but in consequence of the great tension of this organ, the alteration produced is so slieht that it scarcely deserves to be mentioned. _ _ The qcneral relations of the eyeball are the foUowmg : in front, it is covered by the conjunctiva and the eyelids, which defend it from light and from dust, rather than from external violence. It results also from the obliquity of the margin of the orbit, that, on the outer side, the eye projects considerably be- yond the bones. In every other part of its surface, the eye rests upon an elastic cushion of fat (//), which separates it from the muscles and nerves, fills up all intervals, and facilitates the movements of the organ. The absorption of this fat in emaciated individuals causes the depression of the eye into the orbital cavity. A membranous cellular tissue, or rather a rudimentary syno- vial membrane, exists between the eye and this fat. Structure. Like all the other organs of the senses, the eye consists essen- tially of a membrane provided with a special nerve, and of a particular appa- ratus, placed in relation with the external agent by which the organ is to be acted upon. In the organ of vision, the sentient membrane is the retina, which is the immediate seat of the sense of sight: the other parts of the eyeball form nothing more than a very complicated dioptric instrument, a dark chamber, in which the rays of light are refracted, and concentrated so as to form a vivid image, and which is moreover provided with a moveable dia- phragm to regulate the number of rays to be admitted. In an anatomical point of view, the eye is said to consist of certain mem- branes and himiours. The membranes, counting from without inwards, are the sclerotic coat and cornea, the choroid coat and iris, and the retina. The humours are, the vitreous body and its hyaloid membrane, the crystalline lens and its capsule, and the aqueous humour. The Sclerotic. Dissection. Clean the globe of the eye, leaving the attachments of the muscles to the sclerotic coat; with a pair of strong scissors divide this coat circularly into an anterior and posterior portion, taking care to avoid the choroid coat; turn the one portion forwards and the other backwards. It is easier to make this section without injuring the choroid upon a slightly flaccid eye than upon one which is perfectly fresh. The sclerotic ((TKA.7)pbr, hard), or the opaque cornea (b,fig. 241.), is the outer- most of the coats of the eye, and forms as it were the shell of that organ ; it is of a pearly white colour, and very strong: it is perforated behind to give passage to the optic nerve (o), and presents a circular opening in front (from a to a), into which the cornea is fitted. Its external surface forms the outer surface of the eyeball, and therefore has the same relations. Thus, it is covered in front by the conjunctiva which ad- heres to it by means of very loose cellular tissue, that is liable to infiltration. The straight and oblique muscles of the eye are implanted into it. An im- perfect or rudimentary synovial capsule separates it from the cushion of fat, and gives it a smooth aspect. _ Its internal surface has a dull, rough appearance, very difi'erent from that of Us external surface: it is, moreover, of a deep brown colour, from the choroid pigment; it corresponds to the choroid coat (c), and is united to it by a very delicate cellular tissue, and by the cUiary vessels.* The ciliary nerves run from behind forwards between the sclerotic and the choroid, occupying slight grooves upon the internal surface of the former. Both the ciliary vessels and nerves perforate the sclerotic coat very obliquely. Structure. The sclerotic is one of the thickest and strongest fibrous mem- branes in the body : it is not of uniform thickness throughout; it is thickest behind at the entrance of the optic nerve, and thinnest in front near the cornea l^ike all the fibrous membranes, it is unyielding; and on this depends the • See note, p. 873.