NEUROLOGY. 886 The Organ of Hearing. Hearing is that sense by wBich we perceive the vibrations of the air, which produce sound. The organ of hearing is not situated in the face, like those of the other senses, but is contained in the substance of the base of the cranium, in the petrous portion of the temporal bone, its deep situation preserving it from ex- ternal violence: it is composed essentially of a membranous and nervous apparatus contained in an extremely complicated osseous cavity, named the labyrinth, or internal ear. The labyrinth (/, fig. 251.) communicates with the exterior by means of an acoustic trumpet, formed by the auricle, or pinna (o), and external auditory meatus (b), and named the external ear, which may be regarded as an appa- ratus for collecting sonorous undulations. The term middle ear, or tympanum, is applied to a cavity ((f) which is placed between the labyrinth and the external ear, and may be considered as an apparatus for modifying sounds, the intensity of which is increased or diminished by it, according as they happen to be weak or loud.* It follows, therefore, that the ear is formed by a succession of cavities, which, proceeding from without inwards, are, the external ear, consisting of the auricle and external auditory meatus, of the middle ear, or tympanum, and of the internal ear, or labyrinth. I shall describe the ear in this order, and shall thus pro- ceed from the less to the more complicated parts of this organ. The External Ear. The external ear resembles a funnel or ear-trumpet, the expanded part of which represents the auricle, whilst the contracted portion corresponds to the external auditory meatus.f The Auricle. The auricle of the ear {auricula, pinna), commonly called the ear, is placed at the side of the head, behind the articulation of the lower jaw, and in front of the mastoid process; it is an oval elastic lamina, folded in various ways upon itself, and having an undulated surface. The auricle or pinna is free above, behind, and below, but is so firmly attached in front and on the inner side, that the two ears can support the weight of the entire body. The individual varieties in the shape, direction, prominence, and size of the auricle are generally known. Of these varieties, some are congenital, and others acquired. Among the latter should be noticed the effects produced by the habit of confining the entire ear more or less closely by the head-dress. The direction or prominence of the auricle is not without some influence upon hearing; the perfection of which sense, according to Mr. Buchanan, depends on the kind of angle formed by the auricle with the side of the face, and which should be from 25° to 30^. The internal or mastoid surface of the auricle presents certain eminences and depressions which correspond inversely with those on its external surface. The external surface is remarkable for the alternate ridges and depressions • M. Richerand [Siemens de Physiolo^te, first edit.) has drawn an excellent comparison be- tween "the uses of the tympanum in hearmg, and those of the iris in vision. + The external ear, properly 6pe.-iking, only exists in mammalia; and even among mam- malia, those which do not live constantly in the air, are not provided with it.