THE RADIAL ARTERY. '723 the external head of the triceps, and the external intermuscular septum, along which it descends vertically to the back of the epicondyle, or external condyle of the humerus, where it anastomoses with the interosseous recurrent artery. The internal or %dnar collateral artery (jprofunda inferior, m, figs. 210, 211.) is much smaller than the external collateral, from which it is sometimes de- rived • it is often double. It usuaUy arises at a variable height from the lower part of the brachial, sometimes passes transversely inwards, and sometimes proceeds in a tortuous manner downwards before becoming transverse, and then divides into two branches: one anterior, which is distributed to the brachialis anticus, the muscles attached to the epitrochlea or internal condyle of the humerus, and the periosteum upon that process; the other posterior, which perforates the internal intermuscular septum, and divides into muscular branches for the triceps; into periosteal and osseous branches, which pass transversely in front of the triceps, and anastomose with the interosseous re- current ; and into a descending branch, which accompanies the ulnar nerve, and anastomoses with the posterior ulnar recurrent. The superficial branch for the internal portion of the triceps is remarkable for its size and length; it arises from the brachial, immediately below the profun- da superior, from which also it is rather frequently derived, and passes ver- tically downwards applied to the ulnar nerve. It is at first situated in front of the internal intermuscular septum; then perforates it, accompanied by the ulnar nerve, and passing backwards between the epitrochlea and the olecranon, anastomoses with the posterior ulnar recurrent. The superficial branch for the brachialis anticus arises from the brachial artery at the same height as the preceding, runs along the inner side of the brachialis anticus, gradually diminishing in size down to the lower part of the arm, where it anastomoses with the internal collateral artery.* The terminal branches of the brachial are the radial {p,fig. 210, 211.) and ulnar (g) arteries. The bifurcation of the brachial artery into the radial and ulnar usually takes place below the bend of the elbow, sometimes on a level with it, but rather frequently above the articular line ; in the latter case, the bifurcation has been observed to occur sometimes at the lower third or at the middle of the arm, sometimes at the junction of the upper with the two lower thirds, and sometimes in the axilla itself, the radial and ulnar arteries im- mediately succeeding to the axillary. In these cases one division of the artery, generally the radial, is subcutaneous, whilst the ulnar assumes the ordinary relations of the brachial; but the reverse of this may take place; and lastly, the radial and the ulnar have both been found subcutaneous. Not un- frequently the radial artery, at its origin, is the inner branch of the bifur- cation, and then crosses the ulnar at a very acute angle in order to reach the radius. Besides these anomalies resulting from varieties in the point of bi- furcation, there is yet another, in which a premature division takes place into two branches, one of which forms the interosseous artery, and the other the brachial, which has its usual arrangements ; at other times, instead of a bifur- cation, only a very slender branch is given off, and terminates in the ulnar, which in that case arises by two roots. A knowledge of these anomalies, both in reference to the point of bifurca- tion and to the new relations of the parts, is extremely important to the surgeon. The Radial Artery and its Branches. Dissection. The radial artery in the fore-arm is completely exposed by dis- secting the supinator longus; the carpal portion of the artery by dissecting the *[Tlie8c two auperecial branches are frequently represented in their distribution by a single branch, called the anaslomolic artery (o./igs. 210, 211.), which arises from the brachial about two inches above the elbow. » v o . /> "The 7iutrilwus artery of the humerus is small but constant; it arises from the outer side 01 tne brachial, or one of its collateral branches, passes downwards, perforates the insertion of the coraco-brachialis rnuscle, and enters the oblique foramen in the inner side of the humerus to ramify in the medullary canal of that bone.] o 3