THE PONS VAROLII. 94r air communicate, or, as it may be said, the elements of each reduced to their most simple expression. . » j. • •■ It is of a cuboid form, and therefore presents six surfaces for our consider- ^^^Tn "inferior surface (Jig. 276.), on which we observe the pons Varolii, or tuber annulare (d), the middle peduncles of the cerebeUum (m), and the pe- duncles of the cerebrum (//). , A superior surface (fig. 271.), which is covered by the superior vermiform process of the cerebellum, by the velum interpositum, and by the posterior border of the corpus callosum. In order to expose this surface, supposing the brain to be with its base upwards, the cerebellum must be turned forwards, and the pia mater should be separated, taking care to lift up with it the pineal gland. Proceeding from before backwards, the following parts come into view: the tubercula quadrigemina (/ g), resting upon them the pineal gland (c), the superior peduncles of the cerebellum (shown cut at r; also r, fig. 272.), and the valve of Vieussens (I, fig. 271.). The lateral surfaces (fig. 272.) are each divided into two distinct parts or stages, by a furrow which runs from before backwards (the lateral furrow of the isthmus); the inferior stage consists of the pons Varolii (a) and the middle pedimcles of the cerebellum (m), whilst the superior is narrower, lies closer to the median line than the preceding, and presents a triangular fas- ciculus (h), having its base directed downwards, and its apex turned upwards, so as to reach the corresponding inferior quadrigeminous tubercle or testis (g). The anterior surface of the isthmus is continuous with the optic thalami (s, fig. 272.). The posterior surface is much narrower than the anterior, and is continuous with the base of the medulla oblongata. "We shall examine the several parts of the isthmus in the following order — the pons Varolii and middle peduncles of the cerebellum, the peduncles of the cerebrum, the superior peduncles of the cerebellum, the valve of Vieussens, and the tubercula quadrigemina. The inferior peduncles of the cerebeUum have been already described with the rest of the medulla oblongata under the name of the restiform bodies. The Pons Varolii and Middle Peduncles of the Cerebellum. The pons Varolii, or tuber annulare*, is that white cuboid eminence (d,fig. 276.), situated between the cerebrum and cerebellum, upon the base of the encephalon, and forming, as it were, its centre (mesocephale, Chauss.; nodus encephali, Soemm.). From this centre, the several parts proceed as follows — backwards, the medulla oblongata (e); forwards, two thick white bundles, which pass into the brain, and form the anterior or cerebral peduncles (ff); laterally, two thick bundles, which enter the cerebellum, and are named the posterior peduncles or middle cerebellar peduncles (m). The pons Varolii, the cerebral and cerebellar peduncles, and the medulla oblongata proper, are together called the medulla oblongata by some authors ; several of the older anatomists, in fact, compared the pons to the body of an animal, of which the anterior peduncles represented the arms; the posterior, the legs; and the medulla oblongata proper, the tail; and hence the terms still in use of the arms, legs, and tail of the so-called medulla oblongata. It was Varolius who compared this part to a bridge, under which, the several branches of a stream, supposed to be represented by the peduncles and the meduUa oblongata, joined each other; hence the terms pons Varolii and pons cerebelh. The pons is free below, but is blended above with the upper portion of the isthmus; it is bounded in front by the peduncles of the cerebrum, and .^^^^^^'^ tuber annulare 18 derived from the fact, that this part of the encephalon seems to embrace the several prolongations of the medulla oblongata like a ring. "'-'-•'"•"on "eems to X 3