GENERAL VIEW OF THE CEREBELLUM. 965 Y 4 (mil, fig. 273.; nr,fiy. 274.) emerge from or terminate in the central nuclei (pp), hilt it is very difficult to ascertain their precise arrangement within the nuclei. All that we know is the fact, that as soon as they emerge from the central nuclei they assume a fasciculated character, and that all the lamellae and laminsE of the cerebellum seem to terminate in the fibres of the middle peduncles. General View of the Cerebellum. From the preceding statements we may draw the following conclusions : — The cerebellmn consists of two lateral lobes and a middle lobe; the lobes are formed by a considerable number of segments, which are subdivided into smaller segments, and these into laminae and lamellse ; each lobe contains a central medullary nucleus upon which all the segments rest, and which con- stitutes the termination or the origin of the several peduncles ; the substance of these peduncles is fibrous or fasciculated, and that of the central nucleus has a similar character, but not so well marked ; the medullary substance of each segment is formed by laminae applied to each other, but not actually con- tinuous ; each of these laminae is fan-shaped, and those which constitute the central nucleus of each segment become separated from each other to form the secondary segments, the laminae and the lamellae; the ultimate lamellae of the cerebellum consist of two leaflets of white matter covered externally by a very thin yellowish layer, which is itself covered by a rather thick layer of grey matter* ; the corpora dentata or olivary bodies of the cerebellum con- sist of fibres or laminae of medullary substance, which are spread out so as to terminate at different points upon the inner surface of the dense yellow mem- branous layer which constitutes their external investment. A very ingenious explanation of the structure of the cerebellum has been proposed by Gall, and is now rather generally adopted. The opposite directions of the inferior and middle peduncles of the cere- bellum suggested to him the idea of diverging and converging fasciculi, and to this he has added his theory regarding the gangUa, which he considered as apparatuses of reinforcement, that is to say, as points of origin for new fasciculi. According to Gall, then, the inferior peduncles of the cerebellum or the restiform bodies in,fig. 274.), which he calls the primitive fasciculi of the cere- bellum, are the roots, or fasciculi of origin of the cerebellum. After they have_ penetrated a few lines into the substance of the organ, they meet with and join the corpus dentatum, which Gall regards as a true ganglion, or ap- paratus of origin and reinforcement for a great part of tlie nervous mass of the cerebellum. According to him, a principal nervous fasciculus corresponds to each of the folds of the corpus dentatum, from which gangUon arise all those prolongatipns of medullary substance, which together with the grey matter upon them constitute the middle and lateral lobes of the cerebellum. Besides the preceding fasciculi, which are named by Gall the diverging fas- ciculi, and are said by him to constitute the formative system of fibres, there are certain converging fasciculi which constitute the uniting si/stem of fibres, or the commissures of tlie cerebellum. These are supposed to have no direct con- nection, either with the primitive fasciculi or the corpus dentatum, but to emanate from the grey matter upon the surface of the cerebeUum, and to pass m different directions (p q,fig. 273.) between the diverging fasciculi, so as to enter into and constitute the middle peduncles of the cerebellum (w) and the frn Jl'f Jil"^!,of 'be lainins is said to consist of two sets of fibres - one coming thP fiJ^, on^"^ •""'f' ""'^ P"'?'"^ "P "centre of the laminic, and tlie other set lying J^Sn the first, and passing from one lamina to another.] ' ^