NEUROLOGY, 950 The inferior extremity is broad, very thin, and continuous with the central portion of the median lobe of the cerebellum (uj). The Tubercula Quadrigemina. Dissection. Place the brain with its base upwards, turn the cerebellum forwards, and remove the pia mater. The term tubercula quadrigemina or higemina (corpora bigemina, Soemmer- ring; optic lobes of the lower animals) is applied to four tubercles (fgfg,Jigs. 271, 272.), situated regularly upon the upper surface of the isthmus, two on each side of the median line. They form two pairs ; the anterior or superior (/) are the larger, and are called the nates {eminentia iiatiformes) ; the posterior or inferior (g) are the smaller, and are called the testes (eminentice testiformes). These tubercles are placed between the cerebrum and cerebellum, and are situated above the peduncles of the cerebrum, and consequently upon a plane anterior to that of the pons, and cannot consistently be named the tubercles of the mesocephalon, as was done by Chaussier. The anterior part of the aqueduct of Sylvius passes beneath them (/g, fig. 282.), and establishes a communication between the third (I) and fourth (u) .ventricles. They ai'e comparatively small, indeed merely rudimentary in the human subject, for their developement in the animal series is inversely as that of the cerebrum and cerebellum. The space which they occupy is a parallelogram of ten lines by eight. The anterior tubercles are always larger than the posterior * ; they are of a grey colour, oblong, ellipsoid, and diverging ; their longest diameter is directed obliquely forwards and outwards. The posterior tubercles are smaller, and more detached; they are almost hemispherical, and of a white colour; but not so white as the fasciculated medullary substance. A furrow, curved like a parabola opening forwards, separates the anterior from the posterior tubercles. The antero-posterior furrow along the median line separates the tubercles of the right from those of the left side. From this furrow a small, greyish, and tolerably dense cord proceeds backwards, and descends perpendicularly upon the valve of Vieussens, or rather upon the transverse commissure by which it is surmounted, and then divides into two or three branches. This cord might be named the pillar of the valve of Vieus- sens (^columella, frenulum). The lateral triangular bundle (li,figs.21\, 272.) of the isthmus terminates in the posterior tubercle. This fasciculus, which was pointed out by Reil (" schleife," lemniscus, fillet), Tiedemann, and Rolando, who described it as arising from the olivary bodies, presents an anterior border, which is directed obliquely forwards and outwards, proceeds along the anterior tubercle, and ter- minates in a small body, called the corpus geniculatum internum (i,figs.271, 272. ). Its posterior border inclines downwards, backwards, and outwards, and forms a slight prominence above the superior peduncle of the cerebellum, which is covered by it. Its base corresponds to the lateral groove of the isthmus, which separates it from the pons and the peduncle of the cerebrum. Its apex extends to the corresponding posterior tubercle or testis. The anterior tubercles or nates are continuous with the optic thalami (,a,fig. 271.), being se- parated from them by a slight depression. Some white fibres proceed from the anterior extremity of these tubercles, and, as we shall afterwards see, form a thin layer above the corresponding corpus geniculatum externum (j), and assist in the formation of the optic nerves. These white bands are generally proportioned to the size of the nates, f * The relative size of the tubercula quadrigemina varies somewhat in different a"'"*'^- ^''^ antedor tubercles areluch larger , thin the posterior in rummants^ sol.peds, and rodent.a . thpy are smaller than the posterior m carmvora _ m the dog, f"/ '^^ami^f • .,,„,ot,v of th<- t Thpv are very large in the sheep : it appears that it was chiefly fiom the "'\» °-"f„rlls brain ?n {his animal that Gall founded his opinions as to the optic nerves, which he regards as