THE MUSCULO-CUTANEOUS CRURAL NERVE. 1073 Of the terminal branches of the crural nerve there are two which arise in front, of the others; these are, the musculo-cutaneous nerve, and the small nerve for the sheath of the femoral vessels* The other branches are, proceeding from without inwards, the branch for the rectus, the branches for the vastus externus, the branches for the vastus internus, and the cutaneous branch, called the internal saphenous nerve. The Musculo-cutaneous Crural Nerve. This nerve passes obliquely downwards and outwards between the sartorius and the psoas and iliacus, and immediately expands into muscular branches, distributed exclusively to the sartorius, and cutaneous branches. The muscular branches may be divided into the short, which enter the upper part of the sartorius, and the long, which run for some distance upon the deep surface of that muscle, before passing into it. The cutaneous branches are three in number; two of them perforate the sartorius at different points, and may be called perforating branches. I shall call the third the accessory branch of the internal saphenous nerve. The superior perforating cutaneous or middle cutaneous nerve if, fig- 291.) passes very obliquely through the upper part of the sartorius, and often, as it emerges from that muscle, anastomoses with a branch from the internal in- guinal (genito-crural) nerve ; it then passes vertically downwards, parallel to and on the inner side of the external inguinal (external cutaneous) nerve; it lies in contact with the femoral fascia (f,fig. 292.), or rather, is contained in a proper fibrous sheath. During its course, the superior perforating cutaneous nerve gives off internal and external cutaneous filaments, and bifurcates op- posite the middle of the thigh into two branches of equal size, which run parallel to each other, gradually diminishing in size, and may be traced down to the skin over the patella. The inferior perforating cutaneous or internal cutaneous nerve (I, fig. 291.) runs along the inner border of the sartorius, inclosed in its sheath, passes ob- liquely through the muscle at the middle of the thigh, but perforates the femoral fascia much lower down (I, fig. 292.) ; it descends vertically, in con- tact with that fascia, and having arrived opposite the internal condyle of the femur, is reflected forwards upon itself, describing a loop with the concavity turned upwards; it thus gains the patella, runs between the Skin and the sub- cutaneous bursa, and expands into a number of diverging filaments, which anastomose with the reflected branch (/1) of the internal saphenous nerve on the inner side of the patella. A small filament often remains in the sheath of the sartorius, anastomoses upon that muscle with a branch from the ac- cessory of the internal saphenous nerve, perforates the sheath of the sartorius opposite the knee, and anastomoses on the inner side of the joint with the reflected branch of the internal saphenous. The accessory cutaneous branch of the internal saphenous nerve arises from the musculo-cutaneous nerve on the inner side of the perforating branches, descends verticaUy, and divides into two branches. The smaller of these is superficial (n,fig. 291.); it enters the sheath of the sartorius, runs along the inner border of the muscle, escapes from the sheath below the middle of the thigh, crosses the adductor and the gracilis, and is in contact with the internal saphenous vein until It reaches the inner side of the knee, where it anastomoses with the in- ternal saphenous nerve. The other branch, the satellite nerve of the femoral artery, crosses obliquely over the nerve for the vastus internus and the internal saphenous nerve, and is situated in front of the latter, runs along the femoral artery, covering the lower fourth of that vessel, and crosses very obliquely over It, then passes over the tendon of the adductor magnus, and having reached the fibrous ring through which the femoral artery passes, it expands into a ♦»,! ^J"'" "^'^e also gives some small branches (s, fig. 292.1, which pass inwards behind the femoral vessels, enter the pectincus muscle, and sometimes the psoas also ]