THE EXTERNAL MOTOR NERVES OF THE EYES. 1123 There can be no doubt, that in the situation indicated by Arnold, there is a thin and not very weU defined layer of reddish, pulpy tissue, placed upon the inner side of the internal pterygoid nerve, and which presents the chief characters of ganglionic tissue; for it is traversed by nervous filaments^ which proceed from it as from a centre, and run in various directions. Its connexions with the inferior maxiUary nerve are effected by its direct adhesion to that nerve, which adhesion, according to Arnold, takes place by means of several very short nervous filaments (short root), which appear to come from the small root of the fifth pair; and also by its adhesion to the internal pterygoid nerve, so that at first sight the ganglion would appear to originate from that nerve, or the nerve from the ganglion. The otic ganglion is also connected with the glosso-pharyngeal by means of a filament, which Arnold describes under the name of the small superficial petrosal nerve to distinguish it from the great superficial petrosal, or cranial branch of the vidian. This filament, which proceeds from the nerve ofJacobson, or tympanic branch of the glosso-pharyngeal, is compared by Arnold to the long root of the ophthalmic ganglion : it passes out of the cavity of the tym- panum by a special canal, in front of the hiatus Fallopii, runs forwards and outwards (from 7 towards c, fig. 296.), emerges from the cranium through a special foramen between the petrous portion of the temporal bone and the spinous process of the sphenoid, and proceeds (above I, fig. 300.) to enter the otic ganglion.* Arnold admits a third root for the otic ganglion, namely, a soft root which he traces from the nervous plexus that surrounds the middle meningeal artery, and is derived from the great sympathetic. The preceding filaments may be regarded as the filaments of origin of the otic ganglion, f The branches which proceed from the otic ganglion. The principal filament from the otic ganglion runs backwards and upwards .towards the canal which contains the internal muscle of the malleus, and is lost in that muscle. This twig must be carefully distinguished from the small superficial petrosal nerve, which is placed above it. Some other filaments join the auriculo-temporal nerve, which generally arises by two roots. Lastly, the otic ganglion sends off a twig to the circumflexus palati muscle. The Sixth Pair, or External Motor Nerves of the Eyes. The very simple distribution of the external motor nerve of the eye, or sixth cranial nerve, contrasts strongly with that of the fifth nerve; it arises from the furrow between the pons Varolii and the medulla oblongata, imme- diately forms two fasciculi or roots, a large and a small, which unite in the cavernous sinus; they pass vertically upwards, perforate the dura mater {b,fig. 296.) at the side of the basilar groove by one or two openings, to the inner side of and below the fifth nerve, gain the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, over which they turn, and then pass horizontally forwards to enter the cavernous sinus. During the course of the nerve through that sinus. It rests upon its lower wall, crosses (above (,,fig. 301.) on the outer side of the vertical portion of the internal carotid artery, around which it turns, and then runs along its horizontal portion. The sixth nerve forms a most important anastomosis, on account of which it was for a long time regarded as me very doubtful, as well as the communica ion\^f the otic «anKlio^^^^ appears to by means of the twigs on the middle meningeal n'tcry. Sreat sympathetic, 11 3