NEUROLOGY. 922 dry, and as it were adhesive. It is of importance to determine whether the cavities containing the cephalic and the spinal fluids communicate with each other. There can be no doubt that the sub-arachnoid spaces of the brain conimunicate with the sub-araclmoid space around the spinal cord; but do the cavities of the ventricles communicate with the sub-arachnoid space ? Haller admitted that the fluid could flow from the ventricles into the spinal canal, and he believed that this was effected by a communication between the ventricles and the cavity of the arachnoid itself.* Cotugno expresses the same opinion still more distinctly. Both Haller and Cotugno f thought that this communication occurred at the bottom of the fourth ventricle, but they neither indicated the exact situation, nor the mode in which it is effected. M. Magendie has pointed out that it occurs at this very spot, near the point of the calamus scriptorius. Bichat stated that the communication between the ven- tricles and the arachnoid cavity was at the so-called canal of Bichat. The mode in which the fourth ventricle communicates with the sub-arachnoid space will be much better understood if stated in our description of that ventricle. % Uses of the Arachnoid and of the Sub-arachnoid Fluid. Uses of the arachnoid. Like all serous membranes, the essential use of the arachnoid is to lubricate the surface cf the brain and spinal cord, and thus facilitate their movements. No other membrane more completely fulfils such a use, for the arachnoid is moistened in both its external and internal surfaces. It would, in fact, be an error to suppose, that the serous secretion is poured out solely by that surface of the arachnoid which is turned towards the pia mater : the fluid is exhaled upon its internal surface also, as in all other serous membranes, so that we sometimes find serum, pus, and false membranes in the cavity of the arachnoid itself Uses of the arachnoid fluid. The sub-arachnoid fluid forms a sort of bath around the spinal cord, which effectually protects it during the various motions of the vertebral column. It might be said that the spinal cord, being, in re- ference to its delicacy, in conditions somewhat analogous to those of the fcetus in utero, requires a similar method of protection; and in this point of view the sub-arachnoid fluid exactly represents the liquor of the amnios. As to the other uses which have been attributed to it, they are all more or less hypothetical. If we open the spinal canal of a dog, between the atlas and the occipital bone, some fluid will immediately gush out; air is drawn in, which is forced out in bubbles during expiration, and again enters during inspiration. If the animal be then left to himself, he will stagger like a drunken man; he will crouch into a corner, and remain in a drowsy state for some hours. On the next day, he will walk about again perfectly well. I have repeated this ope- ration several times upon the same dog, until at last he became accustomed to it, at least as far as regards the physiological effects resulting from the removal of the fluid, by which means the slight pressure usually exercised upon the spinal cord was removed. The Pia Mater. The pia mater is the innermost of the three membranes of the encephalon and spinal cord. It consists of an extremely delicate membrane, or rather of a vascular network, which immediately invests the nervous axis, and which may » " Qua prodit de ventriculo aqua, facili in medulla! spinalis circumjectum spatium eti&m mnf • pam anuam enim difficulter oranino in tertiura ventriculum et ad infundibulum rertderet, S'pe^enTcuIum oportetascendere (Haller, torn, iv sect 3. p 77 ) . Non dub.to qum coUecta ex ventriculis cerebri aqua eo descendere possit. (/Airf. sect. 3. p.87.; ,„„triculis + " His spinse aquis eas etiam subinde comraisceri, nuas, sue a "^ijonbus cerebri re^ peT lacunar et Sylvii aqueductum sive a proprus exlalantibus artenis, ^fj^'^^^^^^ accipiat; cujus nositio perpendiculata et via ad spinse cavum satis patens defluxuni humoris lu spinam raanil'csti persuadcnt." {Cotugno, p. 18, 19.) X See note, p. 920.