•150 NEUROLOGY. possible to separate them. The communication of the superior cervical ganglion with the hypo-glossal is quite as evident as the preceding. I lie hlaments of communication with the nerves forming the posterior crania! pair do not always proceed from the superior cervical gangUon itself but sometimes from its carotid branch. ' The External Branchifrom the Superior Cervical Ganglion. The external branches of the superior cervical ganglion establish a cammuni- cafzon between it and the^rs<, second, and third cervical nerves; they are large, have a grey colour, and a ganglionic structure ; we may regard them as true prolongations of the superior cervical ganglion ; the principal of them enter the angle of bifurcation of the second cervical nerve, into its ascending and descending branches ; the others, which are very small, join the first cervical nerve. They constitute a true ganglionic plexus, and often form two distinct groups. Frequently the superior cervical ganglion communicates only with the first and second cervical nerves. At other times it also communicates with the third and fourth nerves by means of a long and very oblique branch. In one case it communicated directly with the phrenic nerve. Tlie Inferior Branch from the Superior Cervical Ganglion. The inferior branch from the superior cervical ganglion, or the branch of communication with the middle cervical ganglion, is a white cord, resembling a spinal nerve, excepting in a few cases in which it appears to be a pro- longation of the tissue of the ganglion itself: when the lower extremity of the superior cervical ganglion is divided into two parts, its inferior branch arises from the external division. It varies much in size in different subjects: it descends vertically in front of the spinal column, behind the common carotid, the internal jugular vein, and the pneumogastric nerve, to which it is united by a very loose cellular tissue. Having reached the inferior thyroid artery, the cord of the sympathetic passes behind that vessel, and enters the middle cervical ganglion when that exists ; but when it is absent, the cord continues on to join the inferior cervical ganglion. As it descends, it most commonly receives some twigs from the third and fourth cervical nerves, which twigs we have already said occasionally enter the superior cervical ganglion. At its origin, it gives off on the inner side two filaments which join the superior cardiac nerve and increase its size ; and an anastomotic twig to the external laryngeal nerve, a branch of the superior laryngeal. Not unfrequently the superior cardiac nerve arises en- tirely from the communicating branch between the superior and middle cervical ganglia, that branch appearing to bifurcate. The communication between the superior and middle cervical ganglia is subject to much variety. I have seen a small ganglion upon it opposite to the inferior thyroid artery; from this ganglion, which rested upon the artery, and which might be regarded as the vestige of a middle cervical ganglion, two cords proceeded, an anterior which joined the cardiac nerve, and a pos- terior, which ended in the inferior cervical ganglion: both of these had a gangliform structure. The cord of the sympathetic is not uncommonly found enlarged at intervals into ganglionic nodules. The Internal Branches, or Carotid and Visceral Branches. The internal branches from the superior cervical ganglion are divided into those which accompany the external cai-otid and its ramifications, and those which are distributed to the viscera. The carotid branches. It has been stated that from the upper extremity of the superior cervical ganglion certain branches are given off, which surround the internal carotid, and are prolonged upon its ramifications.