642 ANGEIOLOGY. The base of the ventricular portion of the heart is turned upwards, back- wards, and to the right side. From it arises, upon an anterior plane, an artery, •which immediately passes from the right to the left; this is the pulmonary artery (A) : the portion of the ventricle from which it proceeds forms a pro- minence on the right side of the anterior furrow of the heart, and is prolonged towards the left, becoming narrower at the same time, so as to form a funnel- shaped projection (infundibulum, conus arteriosus) (a), extending a little beyond the base of the ventricles. Upon a second plane we find the aorta (/), the origin of which, from the left ventricle, is concealed by the funnel-shaped pro- longation of which we have just spoken. On a third plane we find a circular furrow (o u,Jig. 195.), separating the auricles from the ventricles. Its posterior half is occupied by the coronary ai-teries and veins, and the anterior and posterior furrows of the heart terminate in it at right angles. This circular furrow at first sight appears to be superficial, but is very deep in its posterior half. If we dissect carefully down to the bottom of this furrow, it is found that the base of each ventricle is, as it were, turned inwards, so as to be in contact by a broad surface with the base of the auricle. We find, also, that the base of the ventricles is cut obliquely, and hence the anterior surface of the heart is longer than the posterior surface. The difference in length between these two surfaces is about fifteen lines upon the right, and from nine to ten lines upon the left ventricle. Thus, in a heart of the ordinary size, the length of the ventricles in front was three inches three lines, and behind two inches three lines. In a very large heart the length in front was four inches, and behind only three. The circumference of the base of an injected heart, of the average size, measured ten inches; that of a large heart was thirteen inches six lines. The apex (6) or point of the heart is slightly curved backwards in the ma- jority of subjects, and is notched opposite the junction of the two longitudinal furrows. This notch, which is partially concealed by vessels and adipose tissue, divides the apex of the heart into two unequal portions; a right and smaller, belonging to the right ventricle, and a left and larger portion, belong- ing to the left ventricle. The relative size of the two portions of the apex of the heart is not constant. In some cases of hypertrophy of the left ventricle, the apex of the heart is entirely formed by it; in other cases, on the contrary, the apex of the heart is nearly equally subdivided. The apex of the heart is directed forwards, downwards, and to the left, and corresponds to the cartilages of the fifth and sixth ribs of the left side, and therefore to the region of the corresponding mamma; the left lung is notched opposite the apex of the heart, so that the latter strikes directly against the parietes of the thorax. The External Surface of the Auricles. The auricles (m n,figs. 191, 192.), forming the auricular portion of the heart, are saccular cavities in which the veins terminate; they may, in fact, be re- garded as dilatations of those vessels, and hence this portion of the heart is called the venous portion, in contradistinction to the ventricles. They are situated upon the hindermost portion of the base of the heart (Jig. 192.). Their size varies in different individuals; in an injected heart, the average height of the auricular portion is two inches; its antero-posterior diameter is nearly the same; and when the auricles are distended, its transverse diameter extends beyond the ventricles on each side. The shape of the auricular portion of the heart, which can only be accurately determined by means of injection, is irregularly cuboid. It therefore presents several surfaces; its anterior surface is situated on a plane much further back than that of the front of the ventricles {fg. 191.). It is concave, and describes three fourths of a circle, so as to embrace the aorta and the pulmonary artery, being moulded upon those vessels, and completely concealed by them. lUe