THE CAPSULAR ARTERIES. 681 Varieties as to number. There is generally one for each kidney, but fre- quently there are two, three, or four. Varieties as to origin. Not uncom- monly, the renal arteries arise from the aorta lower down than usual, or even from the common iliac or the internal iliac. The two latter modes of origin are scarcely observed, excepting when the kidney is displaced, and occupies either the iliac fossa or the cavity of the pelvis. In a case which I recently examined, the kidney occupied the cavity of the pelvis, and there were two renal arteries, one of which arose from the aorta at its bifurcation, and the other near the inferior mesenteric. Lastly, I should add that Meckel has seen the two renal arteries arise by a common trunk from the front of the aorta. Varieties in direction. When two renal arteries arise from the same side, or when one divides into two branches, I have found them, in several cases, twisted spirally round each other, like the umbilical arteries. Varieties as to division. The renal artery sometimes divides immediately after its origin; and then one of the branches, separating itself from the others, proceeds to one or other extremity of the kidney. Such a mode of division leads to those cases in which there is more than one artery. Relations. The renal arteries are covered by the peritoneum and the cor- responding renal veins ; they are surrounded by a quantity of adipose cellular tissue, and they rest behind upon the bodies of the vertebrse. The right renal artery is also covered by the inferior vena cava. In one case, where there were two renal arteries on the right side, one of these was in front, and the other behind the vena cava. Collateral branches. The renal arteries give off some small twigs to the suprarenal capsules, which are called the inferior capsular or suprarenal, and also some small branches to the adipose tissue which covers the kidney, and to its proper cellular coat. Terminal branches. At the hilus of the kidney, the renal artery divides into three or four branches, all of which enter the hilus, between the pelvis of the ureter, which is behind, and the branches of the renal vein, which are in front. The arteries subdivide in the kidney so as to form a network at the limits be- tween the tubular and cortical substances. (See Kidney.) A very few of the branches from this network proceed to the tubular substance, ainost all of them being distributed to the cortical substance. Most anatomists have re marked the facility with which even coarse injections pass from the renal arteries into the veins and ureters. The Middle Suprarenal or Capsular Arteries. The middle supra-renal arteries (s s,fig. 199.), so named in contradistinction to the superior vessels of the same name, derived from the diaphragmatic, and the inferior, proceeding from the renal, are of large size, in comparison with the organ to which they are distributed. They arise from the sides of the aorta, above the renal, supply twigs to the surrounding fat, and to the pillar of the diaphragm, run along the concave border of the corresponding supra- renal capsule, give off anterior and posterior branches, which enter the fur- rows on the surface of that organ, and penetrate and ramify in its interior.