696 ANGEIOLOGY. The infra-orbital artery arises from tlie internal maxillary opposite the spheno-maxillary fissure, sometimes alone, sometimes by a common trunk with the superior dental, immediately enters and then traverses the infra-orbital canal, emerges at the infra-orbital foramen, and divides into a great number of branches (m) which are distributed to the skin and mucous membrane of the cheek, anastomosing with the facial artery, the transversalis faciei, and the alveolar and buccal branches just described. Several branches enter the al- veoli of the canine and incisor teeth at their borders: others penetrate into the nasal fossae at the nostril. During its course, the infra-orbital artery furnishes a very remarkable branch, which enters the cavity of the orbits, where it divides into two branches, one of which passes directly forwards and is lost in the lower eyelid, while the other, which is larger, turns inwards and inosculates with the inferior palpebral branch of the opbthahnic artery; another branch of the infra-orbital artery enters the anterior dental canal, to supply the canine and incisor teeth, penetrating into the foramina at the points of their fangs, in the same way as in the other teeth. Branches arising in the Pterygo-maxillary Fossa. The vidian or pterygoid artery is a very small vessel, which, immediately after its commencement, enters the vidian canal, traverses its whole length, and then ramifies in the pharynx and arovmd the Eustachian tube. The ptcrygo-palatine artery is as small as the preceding, below and to the inner side of which it is situated; it traverses the pterygo-palatine canal, and terminates in the pharynx and on the Eustachian tube. It sometimes arises from the spheno-palatine artery. The superior palatine artery is larger than the preceding branches, and pur- sues a downward course ; it arises opposite the pterygo-maxillary fissure, passes vertically downwards, enters the posterior palatine canal, and having emerged from its inferior orifice, is reflected from behind forwards, advances in a tortuous manner (r, fig. 205.) between the hard palate and the mucous membrane, in the groove which runs along the alveolar border, and forms an anastomotic arch in the median line, with the palatine artery of the opposite side. Before entering the posterior palatine canal, it gives off some branches which run through the accessory palatine canals, and ramify upon the velum palatL Whilst upon the hard palate, it sends off branches, which are distributed to the glands of the mucous membrane; others, which are distributed to the gimis, and enter at the margins of the alveoli, and supply the alveolo-dental periosteum ; and lastly, a small nasal branch (t, fig. 205.), which enters the anterior palatine canal, bifurcates above like that canal itself, so as to pene- trate into each of the nasal fossEE, and anastomoses with the spheno-palatine artery of both sides.* Terminal Branch of the Internal Maxillary Artery. This is named the spheno-palatine; it is a large vessel, often multiple, and is intended exclusively for the pituitai7 membrane; it passes from below up- wards, in a tortuous manner, to penetrate the corresponding nasal fossa, by the spheno-palatine foramen, that is, at the back part of the superior meatus, where it immediately divides into two branches; one internal {s,fig. 205.), which passes obliquely downwards and forwards, covers the septum with a compli- cated network, and anastomoses in front with the nasal branch of the superior palatine ; the other external, which divides into three ramusculi for the three meatuses', and ramifies in them and upon the turbinated bones. Some of the twigs enter the sphenoidal and maxillary sinuses, the posterior and the anterior ethmoidal cells, the frontal sinus, and the lachrymal canal. * There are in tlie interior of the bones of the face, as in all spongy bones, true arterial canals, the study of which is not less important than that of the venous canals found m similar situations.