u;i.'5 THE PNEUMOGASTllIC NERVE IN THE NECK. The Pneumogastric Nerve, at its Exit from the Foramen Lacerum Poster ius. At its exit from the foramen lacerum posterius, the pneumogastric nerve presents the appearance of a plexiform cord, which is often accompanied hy the grey matter of the ganglion for the space of about six lines or an inch. This plexiform cord has certain important connexions -with the spinal ac- cessory, the ninth or hypo-glossal nerve, the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, and the superior cervical ganglion. It is joined by one of the branches of bifurcation of the spinal accessory, ■which we shall name the internal or anastomotic branch of the spinal accessory nerve; it becomes applied to the pneumogastric nerve, and may be distin- guished from it for a considerable distance. It also anastomoses with the hypo-glossal, at the point where it is crossed by that nerve, and at other times above that point. This anastomosis, more- over, is subject to great variety; sometimes it takes place by a very small filament, at other times by two or three twigs which form a sort of plexus. It also anastomoses with the glosso-pharyngeal. The examination of this anastomosis, after the parts had been macerated in diluted nitric acid, enabled me to see that it is not, properly speaking, effected with the pneumogastric nerve, but with the anastomotic branch of the spinal accessory. Nothing can be more variable than these anastomoses, which are sometimes wanting on one side, and which are rather frequently effected through the intervention of the pharjTigeal branches. Lastly, the pneumogastric nerve communicates with the great sympathetic by one or two branches in man and some mammalia * ; in the other classes of animals, the connexion is so intimate that it is altogether impossible to sepa- rate the pneumogastric from the superior cervical ganglion. The connexions of the pneumogastric with the spinal accessory and superior cervical ganglion are two very important points in its auatomy.f The Pneumogastric Nerve in the Neck. In the cervical region, the pneumogastric nerve (p, Jigs. 298. 300, 301.) is situated in front of the vertebral column, the prsevertebral muscles intervening between them, upon the side of the pharynx and oesophagus, and between the internal and then the common carotid which are on its inner side, and the jugular vein which is on its outer side ; it is placed behind these vessels. It is closely applied to the carotid artery, being in the same sheath : it is separated from the cervical portion of the great sympathetic (k), which lies behind and to the outer side of it, by a great quantity of cellular tissue. During this course it supplies the pharyngeal branch, the superior laryngeal nerve, and the cardiac filaments. The pharyngeal branch or small pharyngeal nerve. This is often double, and is then distinguishable into a superior and an inferior ; it comes off at a little distance from the foramen lacerum posterius, but its real origin is variable. In some cases it arises exclusively from the pneumogastric; at other times exclusively from the anastomotic branch of the spinal accessory, which, as already stated, does not become immediately blended with the pneumogastric; and It often arises both from the pneumogastric and the spinal accessory; lastly, the glosso-pharyngeal sometimes gives it a filament. It passes behind the mternal carotid, gives off some carotid filaments, which join the more numerous twigs from the glosso-pharyngeal, and then anastomoses with the I ^^Z^J<"'" the pneumogastnc nerve communicate with the great sympathetic, by fila- ments which come oft at riifferent heights from the cervical ganglion ; two proceeded from the upper part of the superior cervical ganglion and then ascended; and two came from the lower part of the ganglion and descended to unite with the pneumogastric. I have met with a case in which the superior cervical ganglion was applied in its whole extent so closely to the pneumo gastric that it was impossible to separate them. ' pueumo- t [The pneumogastric also receives a filament from the anastomotic loop of the first m,! second cervical nerves (see p. 1040.).] '