NEUROLOGY. 850 which took place m the hair-foUicles, during the developement of the new hairs a rather long period elapses before the hair projects beyond the epiderl rapidly ^ overcome that obstruction, its growth proceeds What is the arrangement of the epidermis at the point where the hair emerges beyond its surface? According to some it is prolonged upon the hair and forms its outer coat; according to others, it dips into the cavity of the hair- lolhcle, and is reflected upon the base of the hair, so as to form upon it an epidermic tube, which falls oS in scales as the hair is prolonged outwards; according to others, again, the epidermis has no connection with the hair ; and I am the more inclined to subscribe to such an opinion, because the hair is of the same size both before and after it has left the follicle.* The hair is the product of a secretion, and therefore destitute of vitality, being formed by a series of small horny cones fitted one into the other. It is generally admitted that it is composed of a horny, colourless, transparent epidermoid sheath, containing a sort of coloured pith in its interior. Bichat presumed that this central substance was formed of certain bloodvessels which contained the colouring matter; but the mode in which the hair is de- veloped proves that it is not tubular, and, also, that the colouring matter it- self is produced by the papilla at the same time as the epidermoid sheath. The white hairs of old people are merely deprived of colouring matter, f The Organ of Taste. The structure of the tongue, the organ of taste, which has already been de- scribed (see Vol. I. p. 441.), presents a greater analogy to that of the skin than any other of the organs of the senses. The sense of taste resides essentially in the papillary membrane which covers the upper surface of the tongue.f It has already been stated, that the perforated eminences found at the base of the tongue are not papillae, but glands ; and the true papillse have been divided into the large or caliciform papillae, which are arranged in the shape of the letter V at the base of the - tongue, and the small papillae; which may be again subdivided into the conical, the filiform, and the lenticular or fungiform, according to their respective shapes. Every special sense, by which term is understood all such as receive sensa- tions different from that of touch, properly so called, presents for our con- sideration a special apparatus, on which the impressions act, and a special nerve or nerves, adapted to receive those impressions, and transmit them to the brain. The muscular structure of the tongue, which at first sight appears to be useful only in mastication, deglutition, and the articulation of sounds, is inti - mately connected with the sense of taste, which would have been exceedingly imperfect had not the gustatory membrane been capable of being moved over the bodies to be tasted. The gustatory apparatus of the tongue consists, then, of a papillary membrane stretched over a muscular surface, and united so closely * [The root of some hairs is larger than the shaft, and is named the bulb; this, however, does not depend on the hair being covered by the epidermis, a thin layer of which (rf d,fig. 200.) lines the follicles, and is believed to terminate at the root of the hair. Into each hair-follicle one or more sebaceous glands (ii,fig. 227.) pour their secretion.] t [Hairs, like the nails, consist, according to recent researches, of nucleated corpuscules, which differ in form, density, and arrangement, in different parts of the hair. At the root, upon the surface of the papilla, where they are first developed, they are soft and vesicular; in the central medullary part of the shaft they are harder, compressed, and polyedral; in the cortical part they form an immense number of very long and fine fibres, and, on the outside of these, a layer "'^'nie hairs'conlist princi keratin and an oily matter; besides which, they yield sulphur, phosphorus, iron, salts of lime, and traces of manganese, silica, and magnesia.] t rThe mucous membrane on the under surface of the tongue, and that covering the buccal surface of the soft palate and the immediately adjacent parts of the fauces, also possess the sense of taste.]