THE STRUCTURE OF THE SKIN. 839 of the anterior aspect of the body. In the limbs the dermis is much thinner on the surfaces which are turned towards the median hne and on the aspect of flexion than it is on the outer side of the limbs and on the aspect of ex- tension which are more exposed to the action of external objects. On the palms of the hands and soles of the feet, which are almost mcessantly m contact with external objects, the dermis is very thick. The thickness of the dermis vanes in different individuals, and also according to sex aud a°-e. In old persons it participates in the general atrophy of the tissues and becomes so thin as to be somewhat translucent, and enables us m certain regions to distinguish beneath it the pearly aspect of the tendons, and the reddish colour of the muscles. The dermis has a deep surface and an epidermic or papillary surjace. The deep surface presents a number of conical depressions, the base of each of which corresponds to the subcutaneous layer of adipose tissue, whilst its sum- mit is directed towards the outer surface of the skin, and is pierced with very fine openings. These depressions or alveoli, which are most strongly de- veloped in the soles of the feet and palms of the hands, are filled with conical prolongations or masses of fat, which when inflamed give rise to boils, and in a state of gangrene constitute the slough from such sores. When examined in reference to its structure, the dermis is found to be composed of bundles of cellulo-fibrous tissue, interlaced with each other, and becoming closer and closer towards its external surface : this fibrous tissue is scarcely extensible or elastic, so that the extensibility and elasticity of the skin are due, not to the nature of the dermoid tissue, but to the arrangement of its component bundles.* The elasticity of a tissue may depend, like that of caoutchouc, upon the nature of its material, or, like that of a spiral piece of brass wire, may result from the arrangement of that material. The elasticity of the skin appears to be of the latter kind. The papilla. Upon the external or epidermic surface of the cutis are found a multitude of small eminences, which are either arranged side by side, in rows or ridges id,fig. 227.), as in the palms of the hands and soles of the feet, or are in-egularly scattered over the surface. These eminences are called the cutaneous papilla; together, they constitute the papillary body (corpus papillare). To understand them properly we must examine a section of a portion of skin from the palm of the hand or sole of the foot; which section should be made transversely to the direction of the papillary ridges (see Jig. 227.) : numerous small eminences are then seen projecting from the dermis into the substance of the epidermis, which may be distinguished from these projections by its trans- parency and its horny appearance. The papillae are still more distinctly seen by removing the epidermis from a piece of skin, and then examining the latter under a thin layer of fluid. The papillae consist of a spongy erectile tissue f containing nervous filaments, arteries, and veins. The nerves of the papiUse are very numerous. In reference to this point it is observed, that the number of nervous filaments distributed to the skin is always in a direct ratio with the number and size of the cutaneous papillae : and hence the nerves of the skin covering the palm of the hand are exceed- ingly numerous. Several anatomists state that they have seen the nerves spreading out like pencils in the papiUae themselves. J • The dermoid, like other cellular and Obrous tissues, is resolved into gel.itine by boiling. It acquires great density and strength in the process of tanning, by which it is converted into leather. t It is impossible to doubt the analogy of the papilla; of the skin to these of the tongue, and even to the intestinal villi. Although we arc unacquainted with their precise structure, it is enough to know that they are composed of an erectile spongy tissue, in which both nerves and vessels terminate. The nervous filaments can be traced by dissection as far as the bottom of the alveolar depressions in the dermis. t Analysis of a former Memoir upon the Structure and Functions of the Skin, by MM Hreschet and Iloussel de Vauzdme. These authors state that they have ascertained that the