688 ANGEIOLOGY. We seldom find the facial arteries of both sides alike. Sometimes there is merely a trace of one, whilst the other is very much developed, and supplies by Itself alone all the nasal and labial branches. No artery varies more than tne tacial, both m size and extent of distribution. Its anastomoses with the inferior dental and infra-orbital arteries, branches of the internal maxillary, as well as those with the ophthabnic, a branch of the internal carotid, should be particularly noticed. The Lingual Artery. The Ungual artenj (^n, figs. 204, 205.), which is very large considering the Fig. 205. size of the organ to which it is distributed, comes off from the front of the external carotid, between the facial and the superior thyroid, and often by a common trunk with the facial; it passes at first obliquely up- wards, and then transversely inwards and forwards, along- the upper margin of the corresponding great cornu of the OS hyoides : opposite the lesser cornu of that bone it changes its direction, and runs in a serpentine course from behind forwards, in the substance of the tongue as far as the apex, where it terminates by anastomosing with the artery of the opposite side; in the latter part of its course it is named, we know not why, the ranine artery {g, fig. 205.; rana, a frog). Its remarkably tor- tuous course is connected with the liability of the tongue to undergo great changes in its relative dimensions. Relations. It is deeply seated at its origin under the digastric and stylo- hyoid muscles and the hypo-glossal nerve; opposite the os hyoides (at n, fig. 205.) it is situated between the hyo-glossus (the nerve passing over that muscle) and the middle constrictor of the pharynx : in the substance of the tongue it is placed between the genio-hyo-glossus and the lingualis, and is accompanied by the lingual branch of the fifth nerve. Collateral branches. A small transverse branch, the hyoid (e), forms an anastomotic arch with the vessel of the opposite side, upon the body of the os hyoides, between the genio-hyo-glossus and the genio-hyoideus. The dorsal artery of the tongue (/), generally small and diflScult to de- monstrate ; it arises opposite the great cornu of the os hyoides, ascends upon the lateral border of the tongue, near the anterior pillar of the fauces, to wMch it gives branches, then passes forwards and inwards, and giving several epi- glottid branches, which anastomose with those of the opposite side, is finally distributed to the caliciform papillae. In the whole of its course, this artery lies immediately beneath the mucous membrane. The sublingual artery (i) is large enough to be regarded by some as result- ing from the bifurcation of the lingual, which, according to them takes the name of raninal, only after it has furnished the sublingual branch. It arises as often from the facial, by a common trunk with the submental, as from the lingual itself. It passes horizontally forwards between the mylo-hyoideus, which separates it from the submental, and the genio-hyo-glossus, and, in company with the Warthonian duct, runs along the lower border of the sublingual gland, to which it furnishes numerous twigs, and then divides into two branches: the larger, or the artery of the franum, anastomoses in an arch with the vessel of the opposite side above the fraenum ; while the smaller, or ascending branch, passes upon the sides of the symphysis menti, and sends twigs into the several incisor foramina, situated behind the teeth of the same name. It is this artery of the frajnum, not the ranine artery, which is liable to be wounded in division of the fraenum. Not unfrequently the sublingual artery gives off a superficial branch, which passes through the anterior belly of the digastricus, and ramifies upon the region of the chin, like the analogous branches of the submental.