NEUKOLOGY. 838 skin, in which the bulbs of the hairs are rendered prominent by being forced outwards, depends upon the contraction of a layer of muscular fibres situated beneath the integument. But the most careful examination has demonstrated no muscular fibres there : we do not even find a dartoid tissue, such as is ob- served wlierever there exists a certain kind of active contractility indepen- dent of the will. ^ Beneath the skin of the human subject we find a layer of adipose tissue, panniculus adiposus; it varies in thickness, and is contained in the meshes formed by the fibrous lamelte, which extend from the internal surface of the skin, and are then either attached to the investing aponeuroses where the skin is said to be adherent, or become expanded into a very thin aponeurotic membrane, called the fascia superficialis, in which case the skin is movable. The quantity of subcutaneous adipose tissue, and the fixed or movable con- dition of the skin, have a constant and necessary relation with the functions of each particular region. Thus, whilst adipose tissue is very abundant in the palm of the hand and sole of the foot, where we always find a cushion of fat, it is never present in the skin of the eyelids and penis. When the skin over any bony eminence is required to be very movable, and at the same time is exposed to continual friction, we find beneath it a sort of synovial capsule, or bursa as it is called : some of these bursse exist at birth, and belong to the original organisation; whilst others are accidental, and result from friction. We must regard the subcutaneous adipose tissue as a dependence, or even as a constituent part, of the integument, for it is impossible to separate one completely from the other. The adipose tissue, in fact, penetrates into, and entirely fills, the areolar spaces in the skin. The cutaneous vessels enter or pass out, and the cutaneous nerves penetrate at the adherent surface of the skin, and more particularly opposite the areolae observed on that surface : so that whenever the skin is stripped off for a cer- tain extent, it either sloughs off, or its vitality is so greatly impaired as to be incapable of completing the process of cicatrisation. An accurate idea is, per- haps, not generally entertained of the enormous quantity of nervous filaments and of the immense number of arteries which enter the skin, or of the number of veins which issue from it. Its importance, both in a healthy and in a diseased condition, is sufficiently explained by these anatomical facts regarding it. Structure of the Ski?i. The skin consists essentially of the cutis, dermis, or true skin ( a, fig. 226.) ; of the papillae, which project upon its external surface ; of the pigmentum, or colouring matter(6'); of the lymphatic network; and of the epidermis, or cuticle (6): as accessory parts it also contains the sebaceous follicles, as well as arteries, veins, lymphatics, and nerves; and has connected to it the hairs and the nails. The cutis or chorion. The dermis, chorion, or cutis vera (a, fig. 226.; e,fig. 227.) is the fundamental part or the basis of the skin ; and to it the skin owes its strength, extensibility, and elasticity. If the skin be regarded as formed of several distinct layers, the dermis constitutes the deepest of these. The thickness of the dermis varies in different parts, but is always in proportion to the amount of resistance which it is required to offer. Thus, in the cranium, it is very thick and dense; on the face generally it is thinner than on the cranium, but not in every part of the face. Compare, for example, its density and thick- ness in the skin upon the lips with its tenuity and de- licacy in that of the eyelids. On the trunk it is almost Skin of Negro. thick behind as in front; and upon the penis, scrotum, and mamma it is much thinner and finer than upon any other part