ANGEIOLOGY. 680 The superior haemorrhoidal arteries are distributed to the rectum, in the same manner as the other intestinal arteries; near the sphincter, they anas- tomose with the middle heemorrhoidals, which are derived from the internal iliac arteries. The Spermatic Arteries. The spermatic arteries {o o, fig. 1^8.; ff, fig. 199.) are distributed to the testicles, in the male ; and to the ovaries, in the female. They are two in number, and are as variable in their origin as they are regular in their course and distribution. Their origin is remarkably distant from their termination; an unsatisfactory attempt has been made to explain this circimistance by referring to the situation of the testicle in the foettis. Varieties of origin. These arteries generally arise from the front, sometimes from the side of the aorta, below the corresponding renal artery, rarely above it, and still more rarely from the renal itself. It is rather rare for the right and left spermatics to come off at the same heights. I have seen the right spermatic artery arise below the renaJ, and the left by the side of the inferior mesenteric. Whatever may be their origin, these arteries pass directly downwards. Sometimes they come off at a right angle, and then curve downwards, so as to descend almost vertically upon the sides of the spine, behind the peritoneum, in front of the corresponding psoas muscle and ureter, and on the inner side of the spermatic veins. The right spermatic artery is in relation with the vena cava inferior, and almost always passes in front, but sometimes behind it; the artery of the left side is situated behind the sigmoid flexure of the colon. On both sides, having reached the side of the pelvis, the artery is situated on the inner side of the psoas, in front of the external iliac artery, and is then differently distributed in the two sexes. In the male (/, fig. 199.), it enters the abdominal orifice of the inguinal canal, along which it proceeds, and together with the vas deferens and the spermatic veins, forms the spermatic cord; it escapes from the canal, and at a greater or less distance from the ring, divides into two branches, one of which enters the head of the epididymis, whilst the other, the testicular, penetrates the tes- ticle at its upper border, and is then distributed as already described. (See Testicles.) In the female, the ovarian arteries (o o,fig 198.), which are much shorter than the spermatics of the male, dip into the pelvis, reach the upper border of the ovaries, supply them and also the Fallopian tubes with a great number of branches, and terminate upon the sides of the uterus, by anastomosing freely with the uterine arteries (re n'). The ovarian arteries are distributed more to the uterus than to the ovary, as may be proved by the post mortem examination of the body of a pregnant or puerperal female; for it is then seen that the ovarian arteries also become largely developed as well the uterine, and that the branches sent to the uterus are enormous in comparison with those given off to the ovaries. The ovarian arteries are very tortuous, especially opposite the brim of the pelvis ; they are quite as much convoluted as the uterine arteries. The Renal or Emulgent Arteries. The renaZ or emulgent arteries iee,fig. 199.) arise at right angles from the side of the aorta, above the inferior mesenteric: the left renal artery often arises a little higher than the right, doubtless on account of the size of the liver. These arteries are very large in comparison to the kidney, for they are nearly equal in size to the coeliac axis, or the superior mesenteric; they are remarkable for their transverse and generaUy straight direction; for their shortness; and, lastly, for their numerous varieties. These we shall now mention.