ANGEIOLOGY. 718 perly so called. It is not rare to find the intercostal branch wanting in the urst space: m all cases it is extremely small. The Axillary Artery. Dissection, fie. 210. In order to prepare the axillary, as well as all the other arteries of the upper extremity, it is sufficient to dissect the muscles carefully, at the same time preserving all the branches which are met with, and tracing them to their origin. The axillary artery (a a', fig. 210.) is that part of the artery of the upper extremity which intervenes between the subclavian and the brachial. Its limits, which are entirely artificial, are the clavicle* on the one hand, and the lower border of the pec- toralis major on the other. It traverses the axilla diagonally, and bends opposite the neck of the humerus, so as to become continuous with the brachial artery. Its upper part rests upon the thorax, and its lower upon the humerus; it is not very tortuous, so that in forcible abduction of the arm it may be stretched even to lace- ration. Its direction corresponds pretty nearly with the cellular interval so gene- rally existing between the sternal and the clavicular portions of the pectoralis major, or rather with an imaginary line extending from the junction of the outer with the two inner thirds of the clavicle to the inner side of the neck of the humerus. Relations. From the importance neces- sarily attached to an accurate knowledge of the relations of this artery, we shall con- sider them in the four aspects of the vessel. In front, the axillary artery is in rela- tion from above downwards with the sub- clavius muscle, a process of the deep cer- vical fascia intervening between them; then with the costo-coracoid ligament and the pectoralis major; next with the pectoralis minor; below this muscle with the pectoralis major again; and, lastly, with the coraco- brachiaUs. Behind, it is in relation with the cellular interval between the subsea- pularis and serratus magnus; lower down with the teres major and latissimus dorsi. On the inside, it rests at first upon the first rib and the first intercostal space; it next leaves the thorax, from which it is separated by the hollow of the armpit, and its inner side is then in relation with the skin which forms the outer wall of the armpit, and with the subjacent fascia. On the * Those authors who consider the subclavian as terminating between the scaleni, describe the axillary as commencing at the same point. . . . , , [The axillary artery is commonly said in this country to commence at the lower border of the first rib (a), and to terminate at the lower border of the conjoined tendons (a') of the latis- simus dorsi and teres major muscles.]