nil THE NASAL NERVE. wards to enter the frontal sinus, then run along the anterior wall of the sinus, and finaUy emerge through a special foramen at the side of the nasal eminence. This nerve gave no branch in the sinus, although it was situated between its anterior wall and the lining membrane. . , • I have seen the frontal nerve divided from its entrance into the orbit into four branches, of which the two outer ones corresponded to the external frontal, and the two inner ones to the internal frontal nerve. The Nasal Nerve. Dissection. The orbital portion of this nerve is easily exposed between the optic nerve and the superior rectus. The external nasal branch can also be easily traced upon the frontal region. In order to see the internal nasal branch in the corresponding nasal fossa, an antero-posterior vertical section of the head must be made on one side of the septum nasi; this section will also serve for the demonstration of all the deep nerves of the face. The nasal nerve (above t,fig. 301.), which is intermediate in size between the other two branches of the ophthalmic, viz. the frontal and lachrymal nerves, arises from the inner side of the ophthalmic, sometimes even as that nerve is entering the cavernous sinus ; it is at first applied to the inner side of the ophthalmic nerve, and then to the outer side of the common motor nerve, together with which it enters the orbit, passing between the superior and in- ferior branches of that nerve. It then runs inwards and forwards, crosses ob- liquely over the optic nerve, passes below the superior rectus, then below the superior oblique, gains the internal wall of the orbit, and divides, near the upper border of the internal rectus, into two branches, named the internal and the external nasal nerves. Before its entrance into the orbit, the nasal nerve gives off a long and slender filament (sometimes two), which enters the ophthalmic ganglion; it also furnishes one or more ciliary nerves, which run on the inner side of the optic nerve and are distributed like the ciliary nerves derived from the ophthal- mic ganglion. The external ncwa? nerwe ( palpebral, Chauss.'). This branch (t, figs. 296, 301.) runs forwards, following the original direction of the nerve below the superior oblique, and emerges from the orbit by passing under the cartilaginous pulley for the tendon of that muscle (infra-trochlearis nerve, Arnold') ; it is sometimes joined by that division of the frontal nerve which I have named the fronto- nasal (notep. 1110.)* and divides into the followingbranches; /)a//)e6raZfilaments which run downwards and outwards in the orbicularis palpebrarum, and form anastomotic arches at the free margin of the upper eyeUd ; a great number of nasal twigs which pass upon the dorsum of the nose and anastomose with the filaments of the facial nerve which accompany the angular vein ; and frontal twigs, which anastomose with those of the internal frontal nerve, f The internal nasal or ethmoidal nerve {u,fig. 296.). The course of this nerve is very remarkable. It enters the anterior internal orbital canal which con- ducts it into the ethmoidal groove, on the internal surface of the basis craniif ; it is then reflected forwards upon the side of the crista galli, passes though the ethmoidal fissure into the corresponding nasal fossa, becomes sensibly in- creased in size, and divides into two filaments, an internal, or nerve for the septum, and an external, or naso-lobar nerve. the external nasal nerve give ofif a branch which ran inwards, anastomosed with the fronto-nasal, perforated the roof of the orbit, ran for about an Inch beneath the dura mater, perforated the Irontal bone above and to the outer side of the frontal sinus, and was distributed to the sWm upon the forehead, t [It also supplies branches to the lachrymal sac and caruncula, and to the parts of the inner t Not unfrequently the internal nasal nerve, whilst within the ethmoidal groove, gives off a recurrent nervous twig which enters the orbit by a small < iinal in front of the anterior internal orhitiil canal, and anastomoses with the external n.asal or infra-trochlear nerve. I lii ve sop, thU smal nerve anastomose with the fronto-nasal branch, wliieh 1 have already described (note, p. 11 ID.) ns an unnsti 'l branch of the frontal nerve. ^ "tscrniea