ANGEIOLOGY. 734 and intervalpudic arteries; and a.posterior set, including the ilio-lumhar, lateral sacral, and gluteal arteries. Altogether there are nine in the male and eleven in the female. 7%e Umbilical Artery. _ The umbilical artery, which is so large in the foetus, is converted into an impermeable cord (u.^jr. 212.) in the adult, excepting near its origin (a), where it gives ofiF some vesical branches : the examination of the umbilical arteries belongs therefore, more especially, to the anatomy of the fcetus. They are intended to convey the blood of the fcetus to the placenta, and are then the continuations of the common iliac arteries. The external and internal iliacs being very small at that period, in correspondence -with the small size of the abdominal extremities, appear to be nothing more than divisions of the umbilical. The umbilical arteries pass downwards, forwards, and outwards, and having arrived at the sides of the bladder, run along them, in order to reach the um- bilical ring, through which they emerge from the abdomen, and having traversed the whole length of the umbilical cord in a spiral and tortuous manner, are at length distributed to the placenta. The vesical, middle haemorrhoidal, uterine, vaginal, and obturator arteries are given off in succession from the apparently ligamentous cord formed by the umbilical artery near its origin. The Vesical Arteries. These are variable in number: the principal of them on each side are given off from the umbilical artery (o), which seems to be converted into a liga- mentous cord (m) at the place where the vesical arteries arise, but which is in reality pervious. This ligamentous appearance of the umbilical arteries de- pends upon the narrowness of their canal, as compared with the thickness of their coats. Other vesical branches arise from the middle hsemorrhoidal and obturator arteries and in the female from the uterine and vagiual. We shall divide the vesical arteries into the posterior, the anterior, and the inferior. The posterior vesical artery (b. Jig. 212.) frequently arises, in the female, by a common trunk with the uterine. It reaches the base of the bladder, on the outer side of the ureter, passes inwards and upwards upon the posterior sur- face, as far even as the summit of that viscus. 1 have seen the right pos- terior vesical artery, of large size, running along the posterior surface of the bladder in the median line, and prolonged upon the urachus; the left posterior vesical was very small, and, in fact, rudimentary. The anterior vesical (c) arises from the umbilical, from the obturator, and sometimes from the internal pudic artery. When it arises from the umbilical, it is given off from that artery opposite the sjdes of the bladder, and passes downwards and inwards along its anterior surface. I have seen it given off near the summit of that organ. When it arises from the obturator or the in- ternal pudic, it traverses the anterior ligament of the bladder, and passes up- wards upon the front of that organ. I have seen a very large vesical artery given off from the obturator, which in that case arose from the epigastric, and further the vesical artery arose by a common trunk with the artery of the corpus cavernosum. The inferior vesical (d), which often arises direct from the internal iliac, reaches the inferior fundus of the bladder, and ramifies abundantly upon it and the commencement of the urethra: in the male it also supplies the cor- responding vesicula seminalis and vas deferens, the branch to which is called the deferential artery, and the prostatic portion of the urethra. I have seen the dorsal artery of the penis arise from the inferior vesical.