THE INTERNAL PLANTAR NERVE. 1089 osseous ligament, ^hich they appear to perforate But ^ith a little care it is seen that almost all of these filaments are lost in the muscle I have however, seen one of them perforate the interosseous ligament together with the an- terior tibial artery, and then, leaving that vessel, return through the substance of the ligament, and terminate in the tibialis posticus; several filaments of the popliteal nerve are also evidently distributed to tbe peroneo-tibial articu- lation, and to the periosteum of the tibia and fibula. . . ^ ^ mi. The nerves for the deep layer of muscles of the leg consist of two sets, rhe nerve for the tibialis posticus almost always arises by a common trunk with the preceding runs downwards and forwards, is applied to the posterior surface of the muscle to which it gives a series of filaments from its anterior aspect; the continuation of the nerve enters the muscle about its middle, and may be traced in it as far as its lower part. The nerves for Hie flexor longus poUicis and for the flexor communis arise by a common trunk a little below the pre- ceding : the nerve for the flexor longus pollicis, which is larger than those for the flexor communis and tibialis posticus, accompanies the peroneal artery as far as the lower part of the leg. The internal calcaneal nerve. This is a large branch which comes off from the inner side of the posterior tibial nerve, and which, in cases of premature bi- furcation of that nerve into the internal and external plantar, cornes from the external plantar ; it passes vertically downwards, on the inner side of the os calcis, and divides into two diverging branches, which are applied to the inner side of the bone, are reflected upon its lower surface, and are distributed to the skin of the heel, one in front, and the other behind. The Terminal Branches of the Internal Popliteal Nerve. Tlie Internal Plantar Nerve. The internal plantar nerve, which is intended for the muscles and skin of the sole of the foot, is larger than the external plantar ; at its origin it is si- tuated behind the internal malleolus, in front of the posterior tibial vessels, which cross it at an acute angle, and occupies a groove which is common to it and to those vessels, and which is quite distinct from and lies behind the groove for the tendons. It is reflected beneath the internal malleolus, becomes Fig. 294. horizontal, reaches the calcaneal groove, perforates the posterior extremity of the flexor brevis dlgitorum, and during this passage through the groove is protected by a fibrous canai, which is subjacent to the grooves for the tendons. At its exit from this fibrous canal, the internal plantar nerve is situated upon the boundary, between the in- ternal and middle plantar regions, between the flexor brevis pollicis on the inside, and the flexor brevis di- gitorum on the outside ; having given off a considerable branch (a, fig. 294.), which becomes the internal plantar collateral nerve of the great toe, it perforates the aponeu- rosis of the flexor brevis digitorura to enter the same sheath as that muscle, and runs (6) along its inner bor- der. Having reached the posterior extremity of the me- tatarsal bones, it divides into three branches which form the collateral nerves of the toes. Sometimes there is a fourth branch (rf), which passes outwards, to anastomose with the external plantar nerve. The collateral branches are very numerous. Some of them are cutaneous, and perforate the plantar fascia to ramify in the skin. The most remarkable are, a small calcaneal cutaneous nerve, which crosses the pos- terior tibial vessels, to supply the skin upon the inner side of the os calcis ; and G G 2