THE RIGHT CARDIAC NERVES. 1155 from the inner side of the superior cervical ganglion; by a branch, often a large one, from the cord of communication ; and by two filaments from the pneumogastric nerve. In one of these latter cases the cardiac branch from the cord of communication presented a very distinct ganglion. Whatever may be its origin, the superior cardiac nerve passes obbquely downwards and inwards, behind the common carotid, from which it is sepa- rated by a very thin layer of fascia, so that it is almost impossible to include it in applying a ligature to that artery; it runs along the trachea, very often receives a branch from the trunk of the sympathetic, and crosses in front of the inferior thyroid artery, or sometimes divides into two branches, one of which, the anterior, passes in front of the artery, whilst the posterior joins the recurrent nerve.* At the lower part of the neck the superior cardiac nerve runs along the recurrent laryngeal nerve, with which it may be con- founded ; it enters the thorax, passing behind and sometimes in front of the subclavian artery f, runs along the brachio-cephalic trunk, gains the back of the arch of the aorta, gives otF a certain number of filaments which pass in front of that part of the vessel, then runs obliquely downwards and to the left between the arch of the aorta and the trachea, anastomoses very frequently with the middle and inferior cardiac nerves and with the branches of the re- current, and divides into two sets of filaments ; some of these pass between the aorta and the pulmonary artery, and others between the right pulmonary trunk and the trachea; they both anastomose with the left cardiac nerves and are arranged as we shall soon describe. In some rare cases, the right superior cardiac nerve goes directly to the cardiac plexus, without anastomosing with the middle and inferior cardiac nerves. During its course along the neck, the right superior cardiac nerve receives the small superior cardiac branches of the pneumogastric, and gives off several filaments, some to the pharynx, others to the trachea and the thyroid body, whilst several assist in forming the plexus of the inferior thyroid artery ; it often gives off three or four branches which anastomose with the recurrent nerve. In the thorax, the superior cardiac nerve is joined by the cardiac branch given ofiF by the pneumogastric in the lower part of the neck, and which is sometimes of very considerable size, and evidently reinforces the cardiac nerve; this branch of the pneumogastric sometimes terminates directly in the cardiac plexus. The middle cardiac nerve. This nerve arises from the middle cervical ganglion, or, when that is absent, from the trunk of the sympathetic, at a variable distance from the inferior cervical ganglion. It is rather frequently the largest of the cardiac nerves, and has therefore been called by Scarpa the great cardiac nerve (magnus, profundus). At other times it is in a rudimentary state, and is replaced either by the superior or the inferior cardiac nerve, or by branches from the recurrent: it frequently divides into several twigs be- tween whicli the subclavian passes; it almost always anastomoses with the superior and inferior cardiac nerves of the same side, runs along the recurrent nerve, for which it might be mistaken, and with which it is always connected, and then terminates in the cardiac plexus. The inferior cardiac nerve. This is generally smaller (cardiacus minor) than the preceding nerve, though it is sometimes larger; it usually » The trunk of the sympathetic having reached the inferior thyroid artery sometimes divides into two branches, one of which passes in front of that artery, to join the superior cardiac nerve whilst the other passes behind it to the inferior cervical ganglion ; not unfrequently the superior cardiac nerve presents a ganglionic enlargement, which occupies the whole or a part of the thickness of the nerve. t The superior cardiac nerve often bifurcates so as to embrace the subclavian artery in a complete ring. At other times the superior cardiac nerve passes behind the subclavian artery and the cardiac branch of the pneumogastric in front of it, so as to form beneath the subclavian an anastomotic loop which lies to the inner side of the one formed by the recurrent nerve Most commonly the cardiac branch of the pneumogastric anastomoses with the sunerior carrilar nrrvc between the arch of the aorta and the trachea. LL 3