813 ORIGIN OF THE LYMPHATICS. surles Vaisseaux Lyviphatiques dela Peau, des Membranes Muqueuses, S^reuses, du Tissu Nerveux, et des Muscles, 1833). Oriain of the hjmphaiics from the mucous membranes. The villi found upon the mucous membrane of the small intestines contain, in their centre, a cavity, named the ampulla of Lieberkuhn, which I have seen in one instance filled with tuberculous matter. iAnat. Pathol. Uv. ii.) StiU I have never been able to discover any open orifice on the summit of that villus.* Independently of these cavities within the viUi, which are proper to the system of lacteal vessels, the thin pellicle of the mucous membranes which cannot be injected from the arteries or veins {vide p. 427.), when carefully and very superficiaUy punc- tured by the pipe of a mercurial injecting apparatus, is covered by a metallic pellicle. Panizza and Fohmann have proved that the membrane which covers the elans penis has two sets of lymphatics — a superficial and a deep. M. Foh- mann has figured, in some very beautiful plates, the lymphatic network of the mucous membranes of the glans penis, bladder, urethra, trachea, bronchi, oesophagus, stomach, ileum, and colon. This network is so superficial, that the mercury appears almost uncovered ; it does not communicate either with the arteries or the veins, but communicates freely with the lymphatic vessels. It was correctly delineated by Mascagni: according to that anatomist, it covers all the intestinal villi, as with a sheath, and does not appear to have any openings on the exterior. Origin of the lymphatics from die skin. Are the openings or pores so evident upon the skin when viewed through a lens, and from which drops of sweat may be seen to exude, intended to serve the purpose both of exudation and absorption ? or are there rather two distinct kinds of orifices for these two functions ? or, lastly, are these orifices altogether unconnected with the ab- sorbent vessels ? f If we puncture the skin very superficiaUy, so that the injecting pipe may enter immediately below the epidermis, the mercury will be seen to run with great rapidity into some very small vessels, and to form a metallic network, precisely like that already described as existing in the mucous membranes; from this layer proceed subcutaneous lymphatics, which may be traced filled with mercury as far as the adjacent lymphatic glands, or even beyond them. In order that this experiment may succeed, it is necessary that the skin to be injected should be plunged into hot water. I made the following experiment in order to detect, if possible, in the lymph- atics of the skin, the mercury absorbed during mercurial frictions. I caused two dogs to be rubbed with mercurial ointment night and morning; and that the absorption might be more complete, I enveloped their bodies in a frock made of skin. These animals died in about eight days with gangrene of the gums ; but I could not find in any part the slightest trace of mercury, although ike frictions were continued up to the period of their death. Origin of the lymphatics from the serous and synovial membranes. The same results as those above stated are obtained by injecting the serous and synovial membranes. The portion of peritoneum covering the liver is generally chosen for injecting the lymphatic network of serous membranes, because the tension and adhesion of the peritoneum over the liver renders it more easy to inject. The same results may be obtained by injecting the costal or pulmonary pleura, the tunica vaginalis, or the parietal and visceral portions of the arachnoid. The synovial membranes may be injected with the greatest facility, either near the cartilages, where they are more tense than in other parts, or upon the ligaments, to which they adhere. Origin of the lymphatics from the lining membrane of the veins and arteries. The lymphatic plexuses upon the lining membrane of veins and arteries have » [For wfi.it is known concerning the structure of the villi, see note, p. 487.1 in , are the orifices of the ducts of the sudoriferous glands, winch are embedded the l^m b^- ]''"''<="'aneous cellular membrane, and have no direct connection with