THE TIBIAL SAPHENOUS NERVE. . .1087 cnemius, it then passes under that muscle and under the arch formed hy the soleus, descends, under the name of the posterior tibial nerve (k), between the soleus and the deep layer of muscles, inclines a little inwards, and, having reached the termination of the fleshy belly of the soleus, gains the inner side of the tendo Achillis; lower down, it passes behind the internal nialleolus, against which it is flattened and widened, and divides into the internal and ex- ternal plantar nerves (a, b, and c, fig. 294.). . , „ , . . , In the popliteal space it is sub-aponeurotic, in the fleshy portion ot the leg it is separated from the fascia by the double layer formed by the gastrocne- mius and the soleus, and it again becomes sub-aponeurotic along the tendo Achillis. It is in relation, in front, with the popliteal and posterior tibial vessels, which separate it, above, from the knee-joint and popliteus muscle, and lower down, from the deep layer of muscles in the leg.* Behind the in- ternal malleolus, and under the groove upon the os calcis, it is inclosed in a common fibrous sheath with the posterior tibial vessels, which are placed in front of it; this sheath is behind that for the tendons of the tibialis posticus and flexor communis digitorum. Its collateral branches are very numerous. I shall divide them into those given off opposite the knee-joint, and those supplied along the leg. The Collateral Branches of the Internal Popliteal Nerve, behind the Knee-joint. These are six in number, namely, two anterior, which are very small, one for the plantaris longus, and one for the knee-joint; two internal, namely, the tibial saphenous nerve, and the nei-ve for the inner head of the gastrocnemius; two external, namely, the nerve for the outer head of the gastrocnemius, and the nerve for the soleus. Tlie Tibial Saphenous Nerve, This is generally known as the external saphenous. It is much larger than the peroneal saphenous, which always anastomoses with it. I have already said that the mode and situation of this anastomosis present many varieties. The tibial saphenous nerve (communicans tibice, I, fig. 293.) arises in the popliteal space, passes vertically downwards between the two heads of the gastrocnemius, and then upon their posterior surface, along their fibrous septum between them; it is here situated in a small fibrous canal common to it and to a small artery and vein ; it receives, at a variable height in the leg, a more or less considerable filament from the peroneal saphenous nerve (or commu- nicans fibula, n) ; it then becomes subcutaneous, forming the external saphe- nous nerve (/>), runs along the outer side of the tendo Achillis, just as the posterior tibial runs along its inner side; it now accompanies the external sa- phenous vein, which is accompanied above this point by the peroneal saphe- nous nerve; it is reflected behind the external malleolus, in the same manner as the tibial nerve is reflected upon the internal malleolus, then runs forwards and downwards {y,fig. 291.), upon the outer side of the os calcis, where it gives ofi'several very large external calcaneal nerves, and terminates differently in various subjects. In some it terminates by fonning the dorsal collateral nerve of the fifth toe ; in others it is larger and divides into two branches, of which the external forms the external collateral nerve of the fifth toe, while the internal, which receives an anastomotic branch from the musculo-cutaneous nerve (x), passes horizontally forwards, crosses the extensor brevis digitorum, and the tendons of the long extensors, and divides into two secondary branches, of which one constitutes the internal dorsal collateral nerve of the little toe, and the other the external dorsal collateral nerve of the fourth toe. I may » [The nerve is at first at a short distance to the outer side of the artery; lower down it lies immediately behind the vessel, and still lower crosses to the inner side of the artery, and is separated from it by the vein.] ' vol,. II. a G