811 THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. tied the t^o external jugular veins in a dog. The animal shewed no sign of cerebri congestion : after opening the body, I did not find any increase of sLe in the sm^ veins which accompany the carotid arteries and which m those an^ak are naturaUy very small. In this case, the circulaUon wzs evi- dently carried on by means of the spinal veins. THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. Definition, history, and general view of the lymphatic system. — Origin. —Course. — Termination and structure of the lymphatic vessels.—The lymphatic glands.— Preparation of the lymphatic vessels and glands. The term lymphatic vessels is appUed to certain transparent tubes provided ■with valves, and conveying either lymph or chyle, which pass through smaU, rounded, glanduliform bodies, caUed lymphatic glands, and in aU cases empty themselves into the venous system, to which, indeed, they may be said to form an appendage. From theu- tenuity and transparence, these vessels for a long time escaped the notice of anatomists. The thoracic duct was discovered by Eustachius in 1565. Thelacteals were discovered in 1622 by Gaspard Asellius, who, by a lucky chance, whilst seeking quite another object, discovered certain vessels filled with chyle. In 1641, Pecquet discovered the receptaculum chyli, and showed that the lacteals entered the thoracic duct, and not the liver, as Asel- lius and all his contemporaries believed. Rudbeck, Thomas Bartholin, and Jolyff dispute the honour of ha,ving dis- covered the lymphatic vessels, properly so called, in contradistinction to the lacteals, or chyliferous vessels. Mascagni devoted a great part of his life to the study of the lymphatic sys- tem ; and his work, ornamented by magnificent plates, is a monument of science, which should be taken for a model by all who are engaged in anato- mical inquiries. Lastly, within the last few years, MM. Fohmann, Lauth, Lippi, Panizza, and Rossi have thrown light upon some most important points in the anatomy of this system. In describing this system of vessels, the lacteals, or the lymphatics con- taining chyle, have commonly been separated from the lymphatics, properly so called, or the vessels containing lymph. This distinction, however, is not warranted by anatomy, for the two sets of vessels are perfectly identical in structure. The lymphatic system offers many analogies with the venous system ; but there are also no less remarkable differences between the two. Like the venous system, it consists, as a whole, of afferent, or converging vessels, which arise from all parts of the body, and run from the periphery to- wards the centre. Like the veins, the lymphatics are divided into two sets : a subcutaneous set, which, in general, accompanies the superficial veins of the limbs ; and a deep set, which follows the course of the deep arteries and veins : and, lastly, the lymphatics resemble the veins, in being provided with valves. The lymphatics differ from the veins in passing through certain bodies im- properly called glands, which at intervals intercept their course. They differ from the veins, also, in their arrangement; for they do not successively unite into larger and larger branches, and these into trunks, but they scarcely in- crease in size fVom their origin to their termination; and, though they com- municate with each other by numerous anastomoses, each of them follows, as it were, an independent course: lastly, the blood which circulates in the veins is still, though indirectly, under the influence of the heart's action, whilst the onward movement of the lymph is exclusively dependent upon the parietes of the vessels.