705 ARTERY OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. F 2 the branches which are furnished to the buccal cavity, and the zygomatic and spheno-maxiUary fossaj. Lastly, the superficial and deep arteries of the face are united by numerous anastomoses. , ... The first set of cranial branches, derived from the external carotid, are the arteries of the hairy scalp, viz. the occipital, temporal, posterior auricular, supra-orbital, and frontal. With regard to these arteries, it is important to notice their large size, which is connected with the great vitality of the skin of the head, and with the existence of the bulbs of the hair ; also, that they are extremely tortuous; and, lastly, that they are situated in the dense cellular tissue which connects the skin with the muscles and the epicranial aponeu- rosis. . . , Besides these, small branches are found upon the pericranium, under the muscles and epicranial aponeurosis: they are seen on the forehead, where they arise from the frontal and infra-orbital arteries, and also in the temporal region, where they are called the deep temporals; these branches are both periosteal and muscular. The second set of branches to the cranial parietes are arteries of the interior of the cranium, viz. the meningeal, the chief of which is the middle menin- geal, a branch of the internal maxillary: the others, or small meningeals, enter through most of the foramina at the base of the cranium. Among these latter we would mention the meningeal branches of the ascending pharyngeal artery and meningeal branches from the ethmoidal arteries, to which may be added some small twigs given off from the internal carotid, whilst inclosed in the cavernous sinus. We may also refer the arteries of the organ of hearing to those of the cranial parietes. They are the posterior auricular and the anterior auricular, which are distributed to the pinna and to the external meatus ; the tym- panic, which passes through the fissure of Glasserus, and a small branch of the middle meningeal, which enters through the hiatus Fallopii. The branches of the external carotid distributed to the organs of digestion be- long to the following parts : — To the organs of mastication, viz. the alveolar, the infra-orbital, and the ' inferior dental arteries, which go to the teeth and the jaws ; the superior pa- latine, which supplies the roof of the palate; and, lastly, the deep temporal, the masseteric, and the pterygoid, which are distributed to the muscles of mastication. To the salivary organs: thus, the parotid receives its branches from the external carotid and the temporal; the submaxillary gland from the facial; and the sublingual gland from the sublingual branch of the lingual artery. To the velum palati and the tonsils we find the ascending or inferior palatine branch of the facial artery, the superior palatine branch of the internal maxillary, and the ascending pharyngeal. To the pharynx, the pharyngeal twigs from the superior thyroid, the ascending pharyngeal, the pterygo- palatine or superior pharyngeal, and the vidian from the internal maxillary, and the inferior palatine branch of the facial. To the oesophagus there are the descending oesophageal branches of the superior thyroid. The branches given by the external carotid to the air passages are the superior and inferior laryngeal, from the superior thyroid artery, which is essentially distributed to the thyroid gland. Arteky of the Upper Extremity. A single arterial trunk, called the brachial trunk (Chaussier), is destined for the upper extremity. On the left side it arises directly from the arch of the aorta, and on the right side from the innominate artery ; it emerges from the thorax between the first rib and the clavicle, traverses the axilla, runs along the inner side of the arm, passes in front of the elbow joint, and divides into two branches, which supply the fore-arm and the hand. As the brachial trunk has some highly important relations during its course,