ANGEIOLOGY. 738 and that for the cure of this aneurism (which has always been the result of external violence), the common iliac artery has in two cases been tied in America, and the gluteal artery itself recently by an English surgeon. The Sciatic Artery. The sciatic artery (_o, Jig. 212.), from its distribution, might be called the inferior gluteal. It often arises by a common trunk, either with the gluteal or with the internal pudic, behind and internal to which it is situated; it descends in front of the sacral plexus and the pyriformis muscle, traverses the sacral plexus, emerges from the pelvis (o,fig. 215.) between the pyriformis and the lesser sacro-sciatic ligament, accompanied on its inner side by the great sciatic nerve, and behind by the internal pudic artery (^p). Outside the pelvis, the sciatic artery gives off internal or transverse branches, some of which pass transversely inwards between the glutseus maximus and the great sacro-sciatic ligament, whilst others (c) perforate that ligament, and ramify in the internal attachments of the glutajus maximus. Several of these branches ramify upon the skin of the coccygeal region ; its other branches are descending, the largest of which (rf) gains the deep surface of the glutaeus maximus, and enters that muscle by numerous branches, which become cutaneous at their termination; one and often two or three branches (e) of the sciatic artery attach themselves to the deep surface of the great sciatic nerve, and accompany it to the lower part of the thigh. A great number of twigs are given off from the several branches of the sciatic artery, which are distributed to the small rotator muscles, or to the origins of the muscles attached to the tuberosity of the is- chium, whilst others anastomose with the circumflex (/) and perforating arteries (s) derived from the femoral. Among these anastomoses, I would point out one very considerable anastomotic loop formed behind the neck of the femur by the sciatic and internal circumflex arteries, and constituting one of the principal communications between the internal iliac and femoral arteries. The Internal Pudic Artery. The internal pudic (p,fig. 212.), the terminal branch of the internal iliac, is, practically speaking, the most important of all the pelvic arteries. It is smaller than the sciatic, from which it is sometimes given off, either shortly after the origin of that vessel, or as it is passing out from the pelvis. The internal pudic runs in a tortuous manner downwards, in front of the sacral plexus and the pyriformis muscle, parallel to the sciatic artery (o), which is behind it; escapes from the pelvis, together with that vessel (p o,fig. 215.), between the pyriformis muscle and the spine of the ischium ; is reflected upon that process turning round it from behind forwards, so as to embrace in succession its posterior, its external, and its anterior surfaces, and then enters the pelvis again between the two sacro-sciatic ligaments. The artery, after descending a short distance, then becomes ascending, and is situated in the ischio-rectal fossa (a, ^jr, 213.), and is applied to the internal surface of the tube- rosity of the ischium, or rather of the obturator internus muscle, with which it is kept in contact by a layer of fascia; it is separated from the levator ani by a considerable quantity of fat, and having reached the posterior border of the trans- versus perinei muscle, it divides into an inferior, superficial, or peri- neal branch (c), and a superior or deep branch (c), which is distributed to the penis in the male and to the