THE CERVICAL LYMPHATIC GLANDS. 833 The lymphatics of the train are but little known. M. Fohmann has de- scribed and figured a lymphatic plexus situated between the arachnoid and Dia mater and precisely resembling those found in other parts of the body : This network dips into the sulci, and appears to be continued into the substance of the brain, where it is no longer possible to follow it. From this network some small lymphatic trunks proceed, and accompany the arteries and veins as far as the foramina, in the base of the cranium, beyond which M. Fohmann was never able to trace them; so that he inquires whether these vessels do not form an exception to the general rule from their want of connection with the ab- sorbent system generaUy, and whether they do not enter directly with the veins upon which they are placed. On the other hand, Mascagni has figured some lymphatics around the internal carotid, within the carotid canal, and also around the vertebral arteries and internal jugular vein. The existence of these trunks leads us to suppose that there must be cerebral lymphatics. M. Fohmann has also found lymphatics in the choroid plexuses of the lateral ventricles of the brain : these vessels were remarkably dilated, so as to present ampullae. The lymphatic vessels of the face. These are divided into the superficial and deep. The superficial lymphatics are much more numerous than those of the cranium. They commence upon all parts of the face ; those from the frontal region accompany the frontal vessels: the others accompany the adjacent bloodvessels; several of them pass through the buccinator glands, and they all finally enter the sub-maxLUary lymphatic glands. The lymphatics of the face are to be injected by introducing the pipe into the plexus contained in the skin. The deep lymphatics of the face accompany the bloodvessels. They are divided into those of the temporal fossae, those of the zygomatic and pterygo- maxillary fossae, and those of the nasal fossae. The lymphatics of the pharynx, velum palati, mouth, tongue, and larynx, enter the deep parotid and the cer- vical lymphatic glands. The lymphatic plexuses of the pituitary membrane and of the lingual, buccal, and pharyngeal mucous membranes may be per- fectly injected. Indeed, it is only in that way that we can demonstrate the lymphatic vessels which emerge from these different parts. Thb.*Lympha.tic System of the Cekvical Regions. The Cervical Lymphatic Glands. The lymphatic glands of the neck are concentrated in the anterior region of the neck. They are divided into the superficial and deep. The superficial lymphatic glands of the neck are found principally along the external jugular vein ; they are therefore situated between the platysma and the stemo-mastoid ; and in the supra-clavicular triangle, that is to say, in the triangular interval between the clavicle, the stemo-mastoid, and the trapezius. We also find several very small superficial glands, between the os hyoides and the thyroid cartilage, and upon the sides of the larynx. The deep lymphatic glands of the neck are very numerous, and form an un- interrupted chain around the internal jugular vein and the carotid artery, from the mastoid process to the superior opening of the thorax, in front of the vertebral column, and upon the sides of the pharynx and oesophagus. The tracheal lympluitic glands are also continuous with the deep cervical glands. 1 he cervical glands form a continued series with the facial and sub-maxillary ymphatic glands on the one hand, and with the lymphatic glands of the thorax and axilla on the other. The Cervical Lymphatic Vessels. The cervical lymphatics consist of those which have passed through the sub- maxillarj- and facial lymphatic glands, and which afterwards traverse the chain o 2