'^^^ ANGEIOLOGY. great developement Thus hypertrophied veins, whether varicose or not always pursue a distinctly zig-zag course. Varieties. The varieties in the size, the anastomoses, and the terminations of the veins are so numerous, that it is impossible to include them in any general descrip- ^tion : It would seem that, for the due performance of its function, it matters not whether a vem terminates in one or another part of the venous system. It may be readily conceived that as the anastomoses of the veins are very nu- merous, and take place by very large branches, it can be of little consequence ■which of those anastomotic branches predominates. Termination. The veins of all the supra-diaphragmatic portion of the body terminate in the vena cava superior; the veins of the sub-diaphragmatic portion terminate in the vena cava inferior ; the veins of the heart terminate separately in the auricle; the two venae cavae communicate with each other through the vena azygos, and especiaUy through the veins of the spinal canal, so that when either of them is obliterated the other supplies its place. Valves. The existence of membranous Mds, or valves {a a, fig. 218.*), in the interior of the veins is one of the most characteristic features in their structure. The existence of these valves is shown ;« '■IH #1 externally in injected veins by a more or less distinct F;g. 2i8.*|j!ilill'J|^''2^ knotted appearance. If we open, under water, a vein provided with valves, we perceive attached to its interior surface certain mem- branous folds, or membranous processes, as they were named by Charles Etienne, who appears to have dis- covered them; there are generally two, placed one op- posite the other; they are rarely solitary even in the smallest vessels, and stUl less commonly are three found together, as Haller and Morgagni say they have ob- served. They aU have a semilunar form, like the sig- moid valves of the aorta and pulmonary artery; their adherent border is convex, and directed towards the extremities ; their free border is straight, and is directed towards the heart. Both sui-faces are free; the inferior is turned towards the centre of the vessel, whilst the superior corresponds to its sides, which always present a dilatation or sinus (6) opposite the valves, that gives a knotted appearance to the vein when distended : the constricted part of the vein corresponds to the adherent border of the valve, and the dilated portion to the valve itself. As a necessary consequence of their direction, the valves permit the blood to flow from the extremities towards the heart, but prevent its course in the opposite direction : it was this anatomical fact which led Harvey to the dis- covery of the course of the venous blood. The valves are so long, that when two opposite ones are depressed, they almost completely close the channel of the vessel. Notwithstanding their tenuity, the valves are extremely strong,—a fact of which we may be easily convinced by endeavouring to inject the veins in the opposite direction to that in which the blood flows through them. The per- forations and notches, sometimes observed in the valves of veins, appear to me to be accidental. The office of the valves is to prevent that retrograde movement in the course of the blood, which would otherwise occur from so many causes.