THE GREATER AZYGOS VEIN. 803 Such are the veins of the lower extremity. The analogy which exists between the internal dorsal branch of the foot and the cephalic vein of the thumb, between the external dorsal branch and the vena salvatella; between the external saphenous and the radial and cephalic veins ; between the internal saphenous and the ulnar and basilic veins, cannot be doubted. There is no branch in the lower extremity analogous to the median vein. THE VEINS OF THE SPINE. General remarks. — TTie Superficial Veins of the Spine. — The Anterior superfi- cial spinal veins, viz. the greater azygos—the lesser azygos—the left superior vertebro-costals — the right vertebro-costals — the vertebro-lumbar — the ilio- lumbar, and middle and lateral sacral — the anterior superficial spinal veins in the neck.— TTie Posterior superficial spinal veins.—The Deep Spinal or Intra- spinal Veins.— the anterior longitudinal, and the transverse veins or plexuses, and the veins of the vertebrce—the posterior and the posterior and lateral trans- verse veins or plexuses — the medullary veins.— General remarks on the veins of the spine. The spinal or rachidian veins constitute a very important part of the venous system, which has only recently been specially studied. These veins differ, in many respects, from the spinal arteries, so that the description of the one does not afford much assistance in the study of the other; nevertheless, I shall frequently have occasion to point out some re- markable analogies between these two sets of vessels. The spinal veins are arranged most distinctly as vense comites and supple- mentary veins. We shall divide them into the veins exterior to the spine or the superficial veins, and the veins in the interior of the spinal canal or the deep veins. The Superficial VEms of the Spine. The superficial veins of the spine may be subdivided into the anterior and posterior. The Anterior Superficial Rachidian Veins. The anterior superficial rachidian or spinal veins (see fig. 223.) comprise the vena azygos major, the vena azygos minor, the common trunk of the right su- perior intercostals, that of the left superior intercostals, the vertebro-lumbar and ilio-lumbar veins, and the lateral and middle sacral veins ; in the neck the ascending cervical and the vertebral veins. ' TTie Greater Azygos Vein. The vena azygos major {a a', fig. 223.) is a large single vein (&Cvyo?, without a fellow), situated along the vertebral column; it commences (a') in the umbar region, and terminates at the upper part of the thorax by opening into the vena cava supenor. ^ Its origin is subject to much variety. It very rarely arises from the trunk of the inferior vena cava itself, with which, however, it almost always commu- nicates by small branches. It generally forms the continuation of a series of anastomoses, which surround the bases of the right transverse processes of the umbar vertebra), and which may be called after some authors the ascendinq lumbar vein {b, on the right side); sometimes it arises from the trunk of the Izst vertebro-costal, or the first vertebro-lumbar vein : we rarely find a branch frn n?"" A-^^ «"Pra'-e°al veins. It often has two origins, one from the ascending lumbar, and the other from the first vertebro-lumbar or last vertebro-costal vein. The vena azygos, almost immediately after its oririn passes from the abdominal into the thoracic cavity, through the aortic openTng