719 THE INFERIOR THORACIC ARTERY. outside it is at first embraced by the concave surface of the coracoid process, and it' is then placed opposite the head of the humerus, from -which it is se- parated by the subscapularis muscle. ^. . i i i • . Relatioiis with the axillary vein and nerves. Immediately belo-w the clavicle, the axillary vein is situated on the inner side of, and at some distance from, the artery; lower down, the vein lies upon the artery. The cephalic and acromial veins pass in front of the artery. _ Immediately below the clavicle, the entire brachial plexus is situated on the outer side of the artery, only one thoracic nerve crossing in front of it. Under the pectoralis minor the artery is surrounded by the plexus; it is at first embraced by the external and internal roots of the median nerve, which meet in the form of a V (jpening upwards; lower down, it is placed between the external cutaneous nerve on the outer side, the median in front, the internal cutaneous and the ulnar on its inn,er side, and the radial, or musculo-spiral, and the circumflex behind. In order to expose the artery in the axiUa, the vessel may be sought for between the median and ulnar nerves. In consequence of these relations, wounds of the axilla may be very serious; compression may be applied to the axillary artery, either by forcibly depressing the clavicle against the first intercostal space and second rib, or by placing the finger upon the vessel in the axilla, and pressing it against the head of the humerus; a ligature may be applied to this artery, either under the clavicle above the pectoralis minor, or in the axilla; lastly, the artery may be torn from extreme violence in attempting to reduce a dislocation. * Collateral brandies. The axillary gives off five branches, viz. the acromio- thoracic, above the pectoralis minor ; the inferior thoracic, or external mammary, below the pectoralis minor ; the inferior scapular, and the anterior and posterior circumflex arteries, opposite the neck of the humerus. The Acromial and Superior Thoracic Arteries. Under the name of acromio-thoracic I include two arteries, the acromial and the superior thoracic, which almost always arise by a common trunk, which is detached at right angles from the inner side of the axillary artery immediately above the pectoralis minor, then crosses the upper border of that muscle at right angles, and immediately divides into the two above-named branches. The thoracic branch passes downwards and inwards, and subdivides (6 b) bet-ween the two pectoral muscles, both of which it supplies, but especially the lesser. Some branches perforate the pectoralis major, and are distributed to the skin and the mamma. The acromial branch subdivides into two others — a descending or deltoid branch (c), which enters the ceUular interval between the pectoralis major and the deltoid, traverses it throughout, and is distributed to these two muscles, but especially to the deltoid; it is accompanied by the cephalic vein: the second is a transverse or acromial branch (<£), which runs horizontally outwards, passes over the apex, and sometimes over the base of the coracoid process, then upon the coraco-acromial ligament, and runs along the outer third of the anterior border of the clavicle. It is covered in the whole of its course by the deltoid, to which it is in a great measure distributed. Some twigs tei'minate in the skin over the acromion. This acromial branch terminates near the acromio-cla-vdcular articulation ; sometimes one of its divisions closely follows the anterior border of the clavicle. The Inferior or long Thoracic Artery, The inferior thoracic, long thoracic, or external mammary artery (e,fig. 210.), is much larger than the acromial thoracic, and sometimes arises by a common cations"*^^ '^""'^ °^ riiptiirc of the axillary artery from .ittempts to reduce old dislo- vol,. II. (.