1044 NEUROLOGY. tween them and the scaleni muscles and brachial plexus. Some loose cellular tissue separates them from the clavicle, upon ■which they glide with the great- est freedom. The Deep Descending Branches. The Internal Descending Cervical Nerve. The internal descending cervical nerve (before s, Jig. 298.), which is destined exclusively for the muscles of the sub-hyoid region, may be considered as the inferior branch of the bifurcation of the second cervical nerve, although the first and third nerves each give to it a small reinforcing filament. It passes vertically downwards, on the outer side of the internal jugular vein, along which it runs, is joined on its inner side by a filament from the first cervical nerve, and having reached a little below the middle of the neck, is reflected inwards in front of the internal jugular vein, and forms an anas- tomotic loop which is sometimes plexiform, with the descending branch (descen- dens noni, h) of the hypoglossal nerve; this is a remarkable anastomosis, and presents many varieties in its arrangement. The convexity of this loop is turned downwards, and from it arises a branch which sometimes scarcely ex- ceeds in size either of the formative branches of the loop, and which expands into several filaments {g). One of these ascends and supplies the superior at- tachments of the sterno-hyoid and omo-hyoid; a transverse filament proceeds to the bodies of the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles. Several filaments can be traced as far as the lower part of the latter muscle, that is to say down to opposite the second rib. The inferior fleshy belly of the omo-hyoid is sup- plied by some twigs derived from the filaments which enter its superior beUy. The Phrenic or Diaphragmatic Nerve. The phrenic nerve (I, Jig. 298. 302.) is a branch derived from the fourth cer- vical nerve, sometimes reinforced by a very small filament from the third nerve, and almost always by a larger branch from the fifth.* Not unfrequently one of the formative branches of the loop of the hypoglossal nerve just described joins the phrenic nerve. The right and left phrenics are rarely of the same size. After its origin, the phrenic nerve descends vertically in front of the inner border of the scalenus anticus, with which it is held in contact by a fascia. It is rotmd at first, but becomes flattened as it passes between the subclavian vein and artery (I have seen it pass in front of the vein), and is then inclined slightly inwards, to enter the superior orifice of the thorax. In the thorax, {lijig. 302.) it continues its vertical direction, runs along the brachio-cephalic vein on the left side, and along the vena cava superior on the right side, is then applied against the pericardium, to which it is bound down by the pleura, and, having reached the diaphragm, ramifies in that muscle. It is accompanied by the superior phrenic artery, which is a branch of the internal mammary, and the superior phrenic vein. The phrenic nerve gives off no branches in the thorax : at a short distance from its origin, it anastomoses with the great sympathetic by a transverse branch: at the lower part of the neck, it sometimes gives off' a filament, which form an anastomotic arch with a branch derived from the fifth and sixth cervical nerves. I have never seen it communicate with the inferior cervical ganglion. The distribution of this nerve in the diaphragm is curious. Some of its ex- panded, diverging, and generally very long, filaments, run between the pleura * The communication between the phrenic nerve and the fifth cervical nerve occurs in many different modes. Sometimes the phrenic supplies the communicatmg filament, j'lstead o re- rpiviriB it • most commonly the phrenic branch of the fifth arises by a common trunii with the nerve for the subcla^llls m'uscle^rosses in front of the subclavian vein, between it and^h^ar- tilage of the first rib with which it is in contact, and passes behmd the mtcrnal mammary ar- tery to join the phrenic nerve at a very acute angle.