664 ANGEIOLOGY. be carefully distinguished from the subjacent layer, which is, almost always dissected off with it. It is of a pale pink colour, and is lubricated with se- rosity. It appears to be of the nature of serous membranes, of which it pre- sents the chief characteristics, viz. tenuity and non-vascularity. * Vessels (ml nerves. The arteries and veins distributed to the coats of the arteries are called vasa vasorum. In regard to the question, whether the arteries receive any nerves, or whether the nervous plexuses which accom- pany them are only intended for the organ to which the vessels are dis- tributed, I would observe, that the latter opinion appears to me to be the more probable. Preparation. The preparation of an artery consists in separating it from the neighbouring parts, at the same time preserving its relations. Most of the arteries may be studied without any other preparation than a careful dissection; but in- jections are necessary, in order to follow the smaller branches. The most convenient injection with' which I am acquainted is the following f : — Tallow, nine parts; Venice turpentine, one part; ivory black, mixed with spirits of turpentine or varnish, two parts. The best injection for preparations intended to be preserved is wax, one part; tallow, three parts; vermilion, indigo, or Prussian blue, first mixed with spirits of turpentine. It is advantageous before making the general injection, to throw in some turpentine or spirit varnish, coloured with the substances mentioned above. For a very fine injection it is necessary to use glue-size, coloured either with lamp-black, or vennilion. In order to place a tube in the aorta, saw through the sternum longitu- dinally ; keep the two halves apart by means of a small piece of wood ; open the pericardium; be careful not to mistake the puhnonai-y artery for the aorta; raise up the aorta by a ligature; make an incision in it anteriorly, and introduce the pipe. In injecting the coronary arteries, the pipe must be introduced mto one of the carotids. DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. THE PULMONARY ARTERY. Preparation. — Description. — Belations. — Size Developement. Preparation. In order to inject the pulmonary artery, the injecting pipe must be introduced into one of the vena; cavse. The pulmonary artery, called vena arteriosa by the older writers, because havino- all the external characters of an artery ; it nevertheless contams black blood "extends from the right ventricle to the two lungs. It arises (k,fg. 191.) from 'the infundibuliform prolongation of the right ventricle, and then passes upwards and to the left side, crossmg in front of the aorta, which is embraced bv its concavity ; having reached the left side of this artery, after a course of about fourteen or fifteen lines, it divides into two trimks (fi k, f9- jf-), ^vhich proceed transversely, one to the right the other to the left ung (k k,fig 171.), where they terminate by dividing into branches. From the point of division into the right and left branches t a fibrous cord, the remams of the ductus arte- * nt rnn.wKi of loncitudinal fibres, which are slightly interlaced, and are covered with a sqlimous epftheriur^The longitudinal wrinkles observed m arteries contracted after death, 'rTlt^'"VtVr coldTnic-ction is one of the most useful; it consists of either red or white lead, mixeJas .?""int: wftll aTmaU quantity of boiled linseed oil, with spirits of turpentme. and also with some driers, vin. sugar of lead, and litharge. J t See note, p. (iGr).