1067 THE LUMBAR PLEXUS. the Dreceding; it passes almost verticaUy downwards and gives off an anterior f o > r branch, the internal inguinal {g€nito- crural of Bichat, b), and an external branch, the external inguinal (inguino-cu- taneous of Chaussier, c). It is scarcely diminished in size by giving off these nerves, but becomes flattened, plexiform, and ribbon-shaped, furnishes some large branches to the psoas, and anastomoses with the third nerve. The anterior branch of the third lumbar nerve is twice as large as the preceding, passes obliquely downwards and out- wards, and is j oined by the branch from the second nerve which greatly increases its size. The large trunk thus formed, after a short course, divides into two unequal branches, which diverge at a very acute angle, and anastomose with two branches derived from the fourth nerve, to con- stitute the crural (g) and the obturator (h) nerves. The anterior branch of the fourth lum- bar nerve is a little larger than the third; it divides after a short course into three branches—an external, which unites with the external bifurcation of the third to form the crural nerve; a middle, which unites with the internal bifur- cation of the same nerve to form the obturator nerve; and an internal, vertical, anastomotic branch, which joins the fifth nerve. The anterior branch of the fifth lumbar nerve (51) is somewhat larger than the fourth ; it receives the internal branch of that nerve, and with it forms a large trunk, which enters the sacral plexus, and was named by Bichat the lumbo- sacral nerve (i). The Lumbar Plexus. The lumbar plexus (fig.290.) (lumbo.abdominal, Bj'cAai) is a rather complicated interlacement, formed by the anastomoses of the anterior branches of the lumbar nerves. It is narrow above, where it consists of the sometimes slender communicating cord between the first and second lumbar nerves, and it be- comes wider towards its lower part, so as to have a triangular form; it is situated upon the sides of the lumbar vertebrae between the transverse pro- cesses and the fasciculi of the psoas muscle. The branches which emanate from the lumbar plexus are divided into ter- minal branches, namely the crural (g), obturator (h), and lumbosacral nerves (i); and collateral branches, improperly named musculo-cutaneous; these are four in number, they run between the psoas and iliacus and the peritoneum, and reach the femoral arch. I shall divide these collateral branches into two sets ; an abdominal set, subdivided into the great (a) and small (above 6), and an inguinal set, subdivided into the internal (6) and external (c).* Of these collateral branches, the abdominal only run in the subperitoneal adipose tissue, the inguinal branches being covered by a layer of fascia, which keeps them in contact with the psoas-iliac muscle. * A change in the nomenclature of Ihe collateral branches of the lumbar plexus appeared to me to be necessary. Bichat, who first distinguished them by special names, divides them into external or musculo-cutaneous branches, and an internal or genito-crural branch. Of the three external branches, Chaussier named the external the ilio-scrotal, and the internal the ineuino- culaneous ; the intermediate one, to which he gave no particular name, retaining its old RDnel. lation of the middle branch. '^'^