INTERNAL SURFACE OF THE DURA MATER. 911 The dura mater adheres to the parietes of the cranium with different de- grees of firmness in different situations. „ , ^ , „ Thus, it is generally less firmly adherent to the rool of the skull than to its base, where it is impossible to separate it from the bone. The upper border of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, the posterior border of the lesser wings of the sphenoid, and the margin of the foramen magnum, are points to which it is very firmly attached ; but the dura mater adheres more strongly opposite the sutures than in any other situation. Upon the orbital plates, on the occipital fossse, and upon the squamous portion of each temporal bone, it adheres so slightly, that it has been conceived to be alto- gether unattached in those regions.* The firmness of the adhesion between the dura mater and the bones varies at different periods of life, and also the manner in which it is effected. Thus in old subjects, the parts are so closely united, that it is almost impossible to take off the roof of the skull, without at the same time removing portions of the dura mater. When this happens, there is ossification of the outermost layers of this membrane. In the new-born infant, the adhesion is firmer than in the adult, especially opposite the sutures. As to the mode in which this adhesion is effected, it may be stated, that in the infant it appears to be exclusively by means of vessels; in old age, almost entirely by fibrous tissue; and in the adult, by partly vascular and partly fibrous prolongations. The dura mater is moreover attached to the bones of the cranium by means of the fibrous canals formed by this membrane for the nerves and vessels which pass through the foramina in the base of the skuU. The most remarkable prolongations of the cranial portion of the dura mater, excepting that for the spinal cord, are those given off opposite the right and left sphenoidal fissures. Each of these prolongations separates into two layers, one of which forms the sheath of the corresponding optic nerve, whilst the other blends with the periosteum lining the cavity of the orbits. The Internal Surface of the Dura Mater, The internal surface of the cranial portion of the dura mater appears smoothly polished, and is constantly lubricated with serosity ; its polished ap- pearance is owing to a layer of arachnoid with which it is covered : this layer is so thin that one might be disposed to deny its existence, and it is so firmly united to the dura mater that its demonstration is extremely difficult. Ex- cepting at the points where the cerebral veins enter the different sinuses, the internal surface of the dura mater lined by the arachnoid is free, and is in contact with the cerebral arachnoid, and indirectly with the outer surface of the encephalon. From this surface certain prolongations or imperfect septa are given off, by which the cavity of the cranium is divided into several compartments. These septa are three in number, viz. the falx cerebri, the tentorium cerebelli, and the falx cerebelli. The falx cerebri. This is a fibrous lamina id,fig. 220.), which is placed ver- tically along the median line, is shaped like a sickle, and extends from the foramen cjEcum to the tentorium cerebelli. Its point, which is in front, dips into the foramen ceecum, and envelopes the crista galli; xUbase is behind, and rests perpendicularly upon the middle of the tentorium cerebelli. The venous canal, called the straight sinus, is situated along the line in which the falx and the tentorium meet. The upper border of the falx is convex, and extends an*d fh"e bo'nes we^c'lh"iTe^S^U ordll"^^ '"^ ""'"^^""^ dura mater between irduVa mater and L bon^^^^^^^ logica. hypothesis, which attributed the mtS^of JheTaYnTo^^c^n^^^^^ VOL. n. rp