968 NEUROLOGY. THE CEREBRUM, OR BRAIN PROPER. Definition — situation —size and weight—general form.—The superior or convex surface—The inferior surface or base—its median region, containing the interpe- duncular space, the corpora albicantia, the optic tracts and commissure, the tuber cmereum, infundibulum, and pituitary body, the anterior pari of the floor of the third ventricle, the reflected part of the corpus callosum, the anterior part of the longitudinal fissure, the posterior part of the longitudinal fissure, the posterior extremity of the corpus callosum and median portion of the transverse fissure, and the transverse fissure. — The la teral regions, inchiding the fissure of Sylvius and the lobes of the brain. — The convolutions and anfractuosities of the brain, upon its inner surface, its base, and its convex surface — uses of the convolutions and anfractuosities. — The internal structure of the brain — examination by sections — horizontal sections showing the corpus callosum, the septum lucidum, the fornix and corpus fimbriatum, the velum interpositum, the middle or third ventricle, the aqueduct of Sylvius, the pineal gland, the lateral ventricles, their superior and inferior portions, the choroid plexus, and the lining membrane and the fluid of the ventricles — median vertical section — transverse vertical sections — section of Willis. — General remarks on this metfiod of examining tlie brain. — Methods of Varolius, Vieussens, and Gall. — Gall and Spurzheim's views on the structure of the brain. — General idea of the brain. — Developement — Comparative anatomy. The cerebrum or brain, strictly so called, is that portion of the encephalon which occupies the -whole of the cavity of the cranium, except the inferior occipital fossae. It forms as it were the crown or summit of the spinal axis, surmounting it (cerebrum siiperius), and at the same tune lying in front of (cerebrum anterius) the spinal cord, as the origin and termination of which it has been alternately regarded. By the pons Varolii and the anterior or cerebral peduncles it is intimately connected with the cerebellum and the spinal cord. The tentorium cerebelli completes the cavity in which it is in- closed, and separates it from the cerebellum, which is situated below its posterior lobes. The cranium, the dura mater, the arachnoid, and the pia mater fonn a fourfold investment for it. Size and Weight of the Cerebrum. The great size of the cerebrum is undoubtedly one of the most characteristic points in the structure of man: in several animals, the entire encephalon is relatively as large, and even larger (ex. the canary bird, the sapajou, the dolphin); but in reference to the size of the brain properly so called, i. e. of the cerebral hemispheres, even the most favoured animals are much inferior to man.* In the adult, the weight of the cerebrum, detached from the cerebellum and the pons by a section through its peduncles, varies from two to three pounds, f I believe it to be impossible to construct a table of the comparative size and weight of the brain and of the body. Is it not evident, indeed, that one * The weight of the cerebrum of the horse and the ox is scarcely half that of the human + [From the statements given by Tiedemann (Him dcs Ncgcrs, Sjc. p. 6. Heidelb. 1837) it annears that the prevalent weight of the brain (entire encephalon) in the adult male is .ibout from 44 to 48 oz. troy ; in the adult female, from 40 to 44 oz. The results deducible from Dr Sinis's tables do not materially differ from the above. , r In thirty-nine males, varying in age from 22 to 80, Tiedemann found the mmimum weight ol the brain 38 oz. 20 gr., the maximum 59J oz. In eleven females, from 20 to 80 years of age, the minimum was 32 oz. 6 drs. 50 grs., the max- imum 40 oz.^ drs^ to Dr. Sims's observations, wore, in about seventy males from 20 to 91 year, l^esf,!?oz. 80 grs. : highest, M oz. 6 drs. troy weight. In ninety females, between the ages of 20 and 8'J, the lowest was 27 oz. 80 gr., the highest 51 oz. 6 drs.]