763 THE VEINS. All veins are not provided with valves, and those which have them are very unequally so. It may be said that their presence and their number, their prox- imity, and their distance from each other, are directly influenced by the degree of opposition to the onward progress of the blood in any set of veins : thus, the valves are more numerous in the veins of the limbs where the blood flows against its own gravity than in those parts where it follows the direction of gravitation. There are no valves in the system of the vena portse. They are generally more numerous in the deep than in the superficial veins. We always find a pair of valves at the termination of a vein in a larger trunk. Very small veins have no valves. I shall take care to describe the number and arrangement of the valves in the principal veins. The number of the valves is subject to many varieties. Some valves com- pletely, and others but imperfectly intercept the course of the blood. Structure. In structure, a vein appears to me to resemble an artery, without its middle coat.* In fact, even by the most careful examination, we can only distinguish two coats in a vein ; an external, called the cellular coat, but which I believe to be of the same nature as the dartos, and an internal coat, very thin, which is analogous to the lining membrane of the arteries, and, therefore, resembles the serous membranes. The internal membrane is the essential constituent of a vein ; for the external coat may be wanting, or its place may be supplied by some other tissue: thus, in the sinuses of the dura mater, in the cells of the corpora cavernosa penis, in the substance of the walls of the uterus, and in the venous canals of bones, the place of the external membrane is supplied by the dura mater, by the fibrous parietes of the cells of the corpora cavernosa, by the tissue of the uterus itself, and by the proper substance of the bones. The valves are formed by a fold of the internal membrane, containing some fibrous filaments, which are found especially along their adherent border. The existence of a middle coat in the veins is admitted by authors, some of whom say it is composed of longitudinal fibres, whilst others think it consists of circular fibres ; but such fibres do not in reality exist. Vesalius relates, that wishing to show them at one of his lectures, he was obliged to confess that he had never seen them, and could not find them.f The walls of the veins are themselves supplied with small arteries and veins {yasa vasorum). No nerves have been demonstrated in them ; nor do either mechanical or chemical stimuli applied to the inner membrane of the veins occasion pain. It is rather a remarkable fact, in reference to the relations of the veins with the nerves, that nervous plexuses are never supported by veins, but, on the con- trary, seem always to be separated from them. The trunk of the vena portse is the only exception. Preparation. Most of the veins above a certain size may be examined without being pre- viously injected ; but injections are necessary for their minute investigation. The arrangement of the.valves, which, in general, oppose the transmission of liquids from the heart towards the extremities, renders it necessary to inject a great number of veins from their extremities towards the heart. In general, nprnJ7!lLY ni't °^ ^ "l^ l^^" °^ artery; and hence the former, when cut arl thd^f fh^J, ?h '''"d of vessel. The coats of the superficial veins are thicker than those ol the deep-seated ones, especially in the lower limbs.] TL^i?vt?rnoi f'V • Tu'"' have an intermediate set of fibres, constituting a thin middle coat. Jl»m»nr/ T.,» ,^nj;.'''''T'..^^''? "i'" "^e arteries, and consists of interlaced cellular mI^Tw; „f'l^^"''"f•'=°'''• d'fl«ring from that of an artery, is composed of pale red filamen s whtL^h„5fi?""'''f T'ixed with others resembling elastic tissue: the bundles into r.!^,^ these filaments are collected pursue a very irregular course around the vein. The in- .rJ^riii He., ' T'" '^'l""r'i brittle, and more reldily detached than the corresponding it is n n i. umis wk^thl'Mni^"" longitudinal interlacing filaments, covered with anepi EeSSmI 11 IS continuous with the lining membrane of the auricles.]