ANGEIOLOGY. 778 figure) IS larger than it at first sight appears to be, but is encroached upon by the internal carotid artery, which curves twice upon itself during its passage through the sinus, and also by the abducens oculi, or sixth cranial nerve. The motor oculi or third nerve, the trochlearis or fourth, and the ophthal- mic branch of the fifth cranial nerve, are situated in the substance of the outer wall of the sinus. It is traversed by reddish reticulated filaments, the nature of which is unknown. The older anatomists said, that the internal carotid artery and the sixth nerve were bathed in the blood of the sinus; but it is now generally believed, in accordance with the opinion of Bichat, that they are protected by the lining membrane of the veins; it is difficult to prove the accuracy of this opinion, although analogy is in its favour. Bichat also thought that the reticulated filaments mentioned above were folds of the lining membrane of the vein. The anterior extremity bf each cavernous sinus has been named the ophthalmic sinus, doubtless on account of its being prolonged outward. Its posterior extremity opens into the corresponding superior and inferior petrosal sinuses, and into the transverse occipital sinus. On the inner side it receives the coronary sinus, which establishes a direct com- munication between the right and left cavernous sinuses. Lastly, each ca- vernous sinus receives below several branches, which connect the veins within with those outside the base of the cranium, more particularly with the pterygoid venous plexuses. The cavernous sinuses receive in front the inferior ani anterior cerebral veins, which commence upon the lower surface of the anterior lobe of the cerebrum. The largest of these veins on each side reaches the sphenoidal fissure, turns backwards over the lateral and middle fossa of the base of the cranium, and enters the middle meningeal vein. Several anatomists state that they have seen the middle meningeal veins open into the cavernous sinuses. Lastly, the anterior extremity of each of these sinuses receives the ophthalmic vein. The ophthalmic vein is a very large vessel, which commences on the inner side of the orbit as a continuation of the frontal vein, and terminates by opening into the anterior extremity of the corresponding cavernous sinus ; and it thus establishes a very free communication between the veins of the interior and exterior of the cranium. It pursues the same course as the ophthalmic artery but without any windings, and receives venous branches corresponding to the ramifications of that artery. Among them, I shall mention particularly the ciliary veins, which commence in the choroid membrane of the eye, where they are called vasa vorticosa, on account of being arranged in whirls. The Coronary Sinus. The coronary sinus, or circidar sinus of Ridley {i), runs round the margin of the pituitary fossa, and completely surrounds the pituitary body. Its posterior is much larger than its anterior half. In old subjects it is not rare to find the quadrilateral plate of the sphenoid bone behind the pituitary fossa worn away, as if corroded by the blood of the sinus, so that it may easily be broken. At this period of life, the coronary sinus is larger than in young subjects, and ex- tends under the pituitary body itself. The coronary sinus only receives osseous veins from the sphenoid, some veins from the dura mater, and those from the pituitary body. It opens freely on each side into the cavernous sinuses, which thus communicate with each other. The Anterior Occipital, or the Basilar Sinus. The anterior or transverse occipital siniis (r) is median and single; it ex- tends transversely across the basilar groove from the foramen laccrum posticus of one side to that of the other; it is of an irregular form, much larger m the