THE OPHTHALMIC ARTERY. 699 tion of the dura mater: a larger branch anastomoses with the middle menin- geal artery. . ^ Lastly, on the inner side of the anterior chnoid process, just as it passes above that process, the internal carotid gives off in front a remarkable artery, named the ophlhalinic. The Ophthalmic Artery. Dissection. Make a partial injection, either from the common or internal carotid. Remove the roof of the orbit, after having carefully detached the integuments and periosteum of the frontal region; leave a small bridge of bone on the inner part of the margin of the orbit for the supra-orbital artery, or rather open the supra-orbital foramen and disengage the artery from it. Dis- sect the muscles of the eye with great care, preserving all the vessels which present themselves. The study of the branches of the ophthalmic artery, which are distributed to the ball of the eye, requires a perfect knowledge of that organ. This artery is principally destined for the eye and its appendages, and is less remarkable for its size, which is inconsiderable, than for the number of its branches. Immediately after its origin, it enters the optic foramen (Jb,fig. 207.), on the outer side of and below the optic nerve. The artery is at first contained in the same sheath as the nerve, but soon escaping from it, penetrates into the orbit between the abducens oculi nerve and the external rectus muscle of the eye, turns inwards and crosses the optic nerve, sometimes at right angles and sometimes obliquely, and is then placed above the nerve. Having reached the inner wall of the orbit, it again changes its direction, passes horizontally and in a slightly tortuous manner along the lower border of the superior oblique muscle of the eye, and terminates by bifiircating at the margin of the orbit. Not unfrequently the ophthalmic artery, immediately after its origin, is placed on the inner side of and below the optic nerve, and then passes directly forwards along the inner side of that nerve; so that, in these cases, the nerve and artery do not cross each other. The ophthalmic artery gives off a great number of branches, which, accord- ing to their origin, may be divided into those arising on the outside of the optic nerve, viz. the lachrymal artery and the central artery of the retina; those arising above the nerve, viz. the supra-orbital, the short ciliary, the middle or anterior ciliary, the superior and the inferior muscular arteries; those arising on the inner side of the optic nerve, viz. tJie posterior and anterior ethmoidal and the inferior and superior palpebral arteries; in all, eleven branches, to which may be added the terminal branches, viz. the nasal and the frontal arteries. It is well to re- mark, that the origins of most of the above-named branches are subject to extreme variety. Branches arising on the outer side of the optic }ierve. The lachrymal artery C*^) Jig- 207.), one of the largest branches of the ophthalmic, arises immediately before the entrance of the latter into the orbit. Not unfrequently it is given off from the middle meningeal artery. The lachrymal artery passes from behind for^vards along the outer wall of the orbit, between the periosteum and the external rectus muscle, and enters the lachrymal gland (/), supplying it with a great number of branches. Emerging from the gland very much reduced in size, it terminates partly in the con- junctiva, and partly in the structures composing the upper eyelid. In its course it sometimes gives off a small meningeal branch, which passes backwards through the sphenoidal fissure, and enters the dura mater, in which it anastomoses with the middle meningeal artery. This branch may be con- sidered, in some subjects, as one origin of the lachrymal artery ; a condition