COLLATERAL BRANCHES OF THE FACIAL NERVE. 1125 vidian arises from the spheno-palatine ganglion, and the chorda tympani is supposed to enter the sub-maxillary ganglion, it is seen that, according to this view, the cranial branch of the vidian and the chorda tympani, which is regarded as its prolongation, would establish a communication between the spheno-palatine and sub-maxillary ganglia. It is by no means proved, how- ever, that the chorda tympani enters the sub-maxillary ganglion; and again the supposed connexion between the cranial branch of the vidian and the chorda tympani is opposed to facts. The cranial branch of the vidian and the facial nerves, indeed, are not in mere juxtaposition, but anastomose and are blended with each other, and the chorda tympani has no sort of relation to the former of these nerves. This independence of the branch of the vidian nerve and the chorda tympani can be most clearly seen when the parts have been macerated in diluted nitric acid.* If an explanation must be given of this remarkable anastomosis between the vidian and facial nerves, I would say, that the cranial branch of the vidian may be regarded as a remote origin or a reinforcing branch of the facial nerve. The facial nerve, according to Soemmerring and those who have followed him, gives off a twig to the internal muscle of the malleus, and another to the small muscle of the stapes ; but, in the first place, the existence of a stapedius muscle is doubtful, and consequently the existence of a corresponding nervous twig must also be so : and, in the second place, the internal muscle of the malleus is not supplied from the facial nerve, but from the inferior maxillary division of the fifth nerve, and more especially from that pulpy, reddish tissue named by Arnold the otic ganglion. Before leaving the aqueduct of FaUopius, the facial nerve (n,fig. 296.) gives a remarkable filament, named the chorda tympani, which pursues a recurrent course (y), from below upwards in a peculiar canal, parallel to the aqueduct of Fallopius, enters the cavity of the tympanum through an opening to the inner side of and behind the attachment of the membrana tympani, passes downwards and forwards through the cavity of the tympanum, between the handle of the malleus and the vertical ramus of the incus, and emerging from that cavity ^g'. 298.), not through the Glasserian fissure, but through a special opening already described (see Organ of Hearing—Cavity of the Tympanum), is applied to the lingual nerve (ra), of which it may be regarded as a late origin, or reinforcing branch. The facial nerve also receives in the aqueduct of FaUopius, opposite to where it gives off the chorda tympani, a very remarkable branch, from the pneumo- gastric nerve, which Arnold has named the auricular branch of the pneumo- gastric. The Collateral Branches of the Facial Nerve, after its exit from the Stylo-mastoid Forameii. Before its terminal division, the facial nerve gives oflF two branches : the posterior auricular and the styloid. I have never seen any parotid branch pro- perly so called. The posterior auricular, which would be better named the auriculo-occipital, comes off from the nerve within the stylo-mastoid foramen, and is immediately applied against the mastoid process, turning round over its anterior and then its outer surface f; as it lies m front of the mastoid process, it anastomoses » Arnold has pointed out, at the junction of the cranial branch of the vidian with the facial nerve, a gangliJormsuieUmn, which he regards as a transition between a ganglilbrm enlarce- ment and a true ganglion ; irom this swelling, which he compares to the ganglia of the posterior roots of the spinal nerves, he says a filament is given off to anastomose with the auditory nerve nt the bottom of the mternal auditory meatus. I have not been Ibrtunate enough to discover this filament; nor have I ever seen any gangliform appearance at the junction of the vidi.m an'ri facial nerves. t This little nerve is lodged m the furrow between the mastoid and vaginal Drocessps (ko„ Osteology, p. 58.). ° F'"».i-iocri vsee 114