ANGEIOLOGY. 644 The Internal Conformation of the Ventricles. Dissection. In order to obtain a general idea of the internal conformation of the heart, make a series of sections at right angles to its length, or else make an incision along its borders parallel to its long axis. To obtain a more exact notion of the ventricles make a V-shaped incision in the right ventricle, letting one branch of the incision extend along the an- terior furrow, and the other along the right border, while the angle at which they meet should correspond to the apex of the ventricle. The best method of opening the leftventricle consists in makingavertical sec- tion through the septum; but in doing this the right ventricle must be sacrificed. In order to obtain a general view of the appearance of these cavities, they may be prepared in the dried state. For this ptirpose, the heart is to be in- jected with tallow, and then, after being dried sufficiently, to be opened in the manner ahove described, and immersed in warm turpentine, which will dis- solve the tallow, and leave the ventricles dilated. Interior of the Right Ventricle. The right ventricle occupies the right anterior and inferior portion of the heart, and has, therefore, been called the anterior or the inferior ventricle. Its cavity (Jig. 193.) has a three-sided pyramidal form. Its inner wall (i) is con- p. vex, and is formed by the septum of the y"^^ ventricles; in its lower half it has a well marked reticulated appearance, which is almost entirely absent in the upper half (a). The anterior and inferior walls (partly removed in fig. 193.) are both concave, and are remarkable for their thinness, so that they are always collapsed when the ventricle is empty. The base of this ventricle presents two openings, which are separated from each other by a projecting part, and which may be compared to the wide circular end, and the narrow mouthpiece of a huntsman's horn. The opening into the auricle (in which a bristle is placed) corresponds to the wide end of the horn, and the infundibulum (a) to the narrower end. The transverse diameter of the base of this ventricle is nearly equal to its height. The summit (Z) is turned towards the apex of the heart. The walls of the right ventricle are very remarkable for their reticulated or areolar character ; this areolar portion might be termed the corpus cavemosum of the heart, for it presents the spongy structure of the erectile tissues. The fleshv columns which form the areote are observed not only upon each of the walls of the ventricle, but they also pass across the cavity of the ventricle near its summit, extending from one wall to the other; m consequence of which the capacity ofthe ventricle is singularly dimmished. The cylindrical fleshy columns {columnm camem, teretes Ucerti-), which sepa- rate the meshes or areote, are of three kinds Some {e) are attached to the narietes of the heart by one of their extremities and are free in he rest of E exten!; by a kind of simple or double mamilMed pro- iection, from which proceed small tendmons cords {chords tcndinem) that ire inserted into the auriculo-ventricular valves (c). They are very few in