THE LATERAL SINUSES. 773 lias the same relations as the artery, only on account of being situated to the outer side of that vessel, it follows that it is not covered by the platysma myoides to so great an extent as the artery, and therefore that it is covered for a greater length by the sterno-mastoid ; and, indeed, its lower end is inclined to project beyond the outer border of that muscle, so that in asthmatic persons the skin covering the anterior part of the supra-clavicular triangle becomes elevated when the enlarged part of the vein is dilated. The pneumogastric nerve is situated behind, between the artery and the vein. A very important relation of the internal jugular vein is that which it has with the subclavian artery, which is situated between it and the vertebral vein, the internal jugular being in front and the vertebral vein behind the artery. The internal jugular vein returns all the blood from the interior of the cranium, receiving it from the lateral sinus, which may be regarded as the origin of this vein, and as the common trunk of all the veins within the cranium. Its collateral branches, several of which belong sometimes to the in- ternal, and at others to the external jugular, are the/ac/aZ (e), lingual, inferior pharyngeal, superior thyroid (all which often open by a common trunk), and middle thyroid veins, sometimes also the temporal (/), internal maxillary, and deep occipital veins. We shall describe in succession the branches of origin, and then the collateral branches of the internal jugular vein. The Encephalic Veins and the Sinuses of the Dura Mater. The commencing twigs and the branches of the cerebral veins are like all other veins, but their trunks are essentially different, for they consist of fibrous canals, formed as it were in the substance of the dura mater; the lining membrane of these canals is the only part in which they correspond in struc- ture with the rest of the venous system, the dura mater forming their outer coat. These canals are called the sinuses of the dura mater. They receive the blood from the brain, cerebellum, and medulla, from the eye, and from the bones of the cranium. All the sinuses of the dura mater have a similar situation ; they all occupy grooves, formed for them upon the internal surface of the bones of the cranium, and which we have already described. They are for the most part situated opposite the intervals between the great divisions of the encephalon : thus, the superior longitudinal sinus occupies the fissure between the two hemispheres of the brain ; the lateral sinuses are situated opposite the great fissure, which separates the cerebrum from the cerebellum. All the sinuses communicate with each other, and form an uninterrupted series of canals ; they all open into the lateral sinuses, which are to the other sinuses what venous trunks are to their branches. There are twelve sinuses in all, not including the inferior longitudinal sinus, which may be regarded as a vein. Eight of the sinuses exist in pairs, the re- maining four are single, and occupy the median line. The single sinuses are the superior longitudinal sinus, the straight sinus, the coronary sinus, and the transverse occipital sinuses. The eight sinuses which exist in pairs are placed four on each side of the cranium ; they are the two superior and two inferior petrosal, the two occipital and the two lateral sinuses. As the lateral sinuses form as it were the common trunks of all the others. I shall describe them first. The Lateral Sinuses. The lateral or transverse sinuses {aa,fig.22\.) are situated in the lateral grooves {vide Osteology, vol. i. p. 40.) j each of them commences, like those grooves, at the internal occipital protuberance, and passes horizontally out- wards, as far as the base of the petrous portion of the corresponding temporal tone; at which point it dips obliquely downwards and inwards into the in- ferior occipital fossa, turns round the base of the pars petrosa, and aaain K 4 °