THE INTERCOSTAL VEINS. 805 the superior vertebro-costal veins, which might be said to form a superior lesser azygos vein. The Left Superior Vertebro-costal Veins. The common trunk (e) of the left superior intercostal veins (//) might be called the left superior lesser azygos, for it has the same relation to these veins that the lesser azygos has to the inferior intercostals of the same side. It runs downwards upon the left of the vertebral column, increasing in size as it ap- proaches its termination, which is either near the end of the lesser azygos, or in the greater azygos. Not unfrequently the common trunk of the left superior intercostals bifurcates and opens both into the lesser azygos and into the left brachio-cephalic vein. In some cases it terminates entirely in the left brachio-cephalic vein: I have myself met with this disposition. I have seen the left superior phrenic and the mediastinal veins enter the trunk of the lesser vena azygos immediately before its termination. The number of the left vertebro-costal veins which unite to form the lesser azygos vein, varies from three to seven ; when only three or four of the high- est of these vertebro-costal veins end in it, the two or three lower ones enter directly into the greater azygos vein. General remarks on the vena azygos major. This vein returns the blood of the right and left vertebro-costal veins to the heart; its presence is rendered necessary, first, in consequence of the inferior vena cava not being able to receive any veins from the point where it enters the groove in the liver to its termination in the right auricle; and, secondly, because the superior vena cava is also unable to receive any veins whilst it is within the pericardium. The greater azygos is, therefore, a supplementary vein, a true collateral canal which supplies the place of the venae cavae, and receives all the veins corre- sponding to the branches given off by the aorta during this long course. These observations are, for the most part, applicable to all the azygos veins. Anatomical varieties of the azygos veins. It would be both useless and tedious to notice here all the varieties that have been observed in the distribution of the azygos veins. M. Breschet has described six, but there are many more. The following is a very curious variety: the greater azygos occupies the median line of the dorsaJ portion of the vertebral column, and is divided below into two equal branches, a right and a left, each of which receives the three inferior vertebro-costal veins of its own sides; all the other vertebro-costal veins end directly in the greater azygos. Another not less curious variety is the following: there are two equal and parallel azygos veins, a right, which receives all the right intercostal veins, and a left, which receives all the left intercostals : the two main trunks communi- cate with each other opposite the seventh or eighth dorsal vertebra by a very large transverse branch. The Intercostal or Vertebro-costal Veins. The intercostal or vertebro-costal veins of both sides (c c, c' c', ff) corre- spond to the intercostal or vertebro-costal arteries, the distribution of which it IS important to call to mind. We have seen that each of these arteries divides into two branches, an intercostal branch, properly so called, intended for the intercostal spaces; and a spina? branch, the dorsal division of-which terminates in the spinal muscles and the skin, while its vertebral, or intra-spinal division is distributed to the vertebrae, to the spinal cord, and to its coverings. In like manner the vertebro-costal veins are formed by the junction of the spinal branch, to which we shaU presently return, and the intercostal branch. These two sets ot branches unite into a common trunk, the vertebro-costal vein, which passes transversely along the groove on the body of each vertebra, receives some veins from the bone in that situation, and enters at a right angle into the corresponding azygos vein. u 4