1081 THE SUPERIOR GLUTEAL NERVE. In the female, when this nerve reaches the clitoris, it becomes very small; it passes under the arch of the pubes, between it and the crus of the clitoris ; it runs along that crus, becomes curved like the clitoris itself, upon the side of which it expands into filaments, and then ramifies in the substance of that organ ; several of the filaments run forwards to the skin of the anterior part of the labia majora. The superficial perineal branch passes between the constrictor muscle and the bulb of the vagina, and then terminates in these parts. The internal pudic nerve in the female does not appear to me to be half the size of the internal pudic nerve of the male. In one case I found that it con- sisted only of the branch for the clitoris, the superficial branch being supplied by the inferior gluteal nerve. The Superior Gluteal Nerve. The superior gluteal nerve, which is intended for the glutaeus medius and minimus, and the tensor vaginae femoris, arises from the back of the lumbo- sacral trunk, before its junction with the first sacral nerve. I have seen it arising by two roots, of which one came from the lumbo-sacral nerve and the other from the posterior surface of the plexus: it emerges from the pelvis {a, jig. 293.) by the upper and fore part of the great sciatic notch, in front of the pyriformis, is reflected upon this notch to pass between the gliitaeus medius and minimus, and divides into two branches ; the one ascending, which encircles the origin of the glutseus minimus, like the corresponding branch of the gluteal artery, and the other descending, which passes obliquely downwards and outwards, between the gluteeus medius and minimus, to which it gives off numerous filaments, and thus, gradually diminished in size, it embraces, as it were, the posterior surface of the glutseus minimus, and having reached the external border of that muscle, it passes downwards, and enters the sheath of the tensor vaginae femoris, in which it terminates. Before entering the sheath of the tensor vaginae it gives off a remarkable branch, which turns round the anterior border of the glutaeus minimus, and ramifies in that muscle. The Nerve for the Pyriformis. This little nerve arises separately from the posterior surface of the sacral plexus, and more particularly from the third sacral nerve; it divides into two branches, which immediately enter the anterior surface of the muscle. The Inferior Gluteal Nerve. The inferior gluteal nerve (Bichat), or the lesser sciatic nerve (^Boyer), is in- tended for the glutseus maximus, the integuments of the posterior region of the thigh, and for a part of the skin of the leg. It arises from the back of the sacral plexus, sometimes by one cord, sometimes by several very distinct cords. It emerges from the pelvis (near c, fig. 293.), below the pyriformis, together with and on the inner side of the great sciatic nerve, to which it may be regarded as an accessory ; it passes behind that nerve, and divides into two sets of branches, viz. muscular and cutaneous. The muscular branches (c) are numerous, although exclusively intended for the glutaius maximus ; they divide into ascending and external branches, which run along the anterior surface of the muscle, spread out upon it, and may be traced as far as its upper border, and descending and internal branches, which pass between the tuberosity of the ischium and the muscle, and then enter the latter. The cutaneous branch (b) continues in the original course of the nerve, behind the great sciatic, and in front of the glutaeus maximus; it crosses ob- liquely, downwards and inwards, over the tuberosity of the ischium and the origins of the biceps and semi-tendinosus muscles: considerably reduced in