THE CONARIUM, OR PINEAL GLAND. 993 sheath • the adhesion between these parts is so intimate, that they are almost always removed together; and hence some anatomists have regarded the conarium as a dependence of that membrane, and others, who have not been careful in their examinations, have declared that it is sometimes wanting in the human subject. This body, however, always exists in man and the mammalia. It is wanting in birds and fishes, and in reptiles, with the exception of the tortoise, in which it is so remarkably large that it forms by itself a kind of brain. ' (Desmoulins, Anat. du Syst. Nerv. t. i. p. 211.) This body is shaped like a cone, having its adherent base turned forwards and its free apex backwards ; hence its name of conarium {Oribasius, Galen) ; it has also been compared to a pine-cone, and has been named the pineal gland, or pineal body. Its form, however, is subject to some variety ; it is sometimes spheroidal, and at other times cordiform, from being notched at the base. The pineal body is small, being only about four lines in length, and from two to three lines wide at the base. Its size, in the animal series, does not appear to bear any proportion to the size of the cerebrum, or of the cere- bellum, or of the tubercula quadrigemina, so that comparative anatomy throws no light upon this obscure subject. Neither age nor sex have any influence upon the developement of this small body. Relations. The conarium or pineal gland, inclosed in the pia mater, like the cerebrum and cerebellum, rests upon the slight triangular depression between the nates: the vense Galeni run along its sides. When stripped of the pia mater, it is free in all directions, excepting at its base, which is connected with the encephalon by a transverse commissure situated above the posterior commissure of the cerebrum, and hj four slender peduncles, two of which are superior and two inferior. The superior peduncles (s,figs. 280. 282.), which are the only ones generally described, form together a sort of loop, the two ends of which run along the tops of the optic thalami; they have been named the reins of the pineal body (liabence). We have already seen that they are continuous with the fornix. The inferior peduncles, which are distinctly seen only upon a longitudinal vertical section through the middle of the cerebrum, arise from the base of the pineal body, pass vertically downwards upon the back part of the internal wall of the third ventricle, aud may be traced to the lower part of that cavity. * Colour and consistence. The reddish-grey colour of the pineal body con- trasts strongly with the whiteness of its commissure and peduncles. The colour and consistence of this body exactly resemble those of the grey matter of the cerebral convolutions. If it be compressed between the fingers, a viscid juice exudes, and certain small concretions are found in it, which I shall notice after having described the structure of this organ. Structure. At the base of the pineal body are seen some white or medullary fibres which arise from the commissure and from the superior peduncles of that organ. These white fibres spread out into a tuft and terminate abruptly. All the rest of the conarium consists of grey matter. On making a horizontal section of this body, it is sometimes found to be solid, and sometimes to be hollow, and to contain a transparent, viscid fluid. The cavity is lined by a vascular membrane, and, according to Meckel, by a layer of medullary sub- stance, which I have never seen. It has been stated that it communicates with the third ventricle ; but I am inclined to believe with Santorini and Gerardi, that the communicating orifice admitted by some authors is the result of traction upon the base of the conarium in attempting to remove the pia mater. When the pineal body contains no distinct cavity, which is not unfrequently the case, the viscid fluid is distributed through it as through a sponge. As to the nature of this body, it appears to consist of a soft grey substance, »».*t„^''"}=y describes certain white stria; arising from tlie pineal body and terminatine in thp w,^ 1 , , " ""^ peduncles arc directed baclcwards, and somewhat down wards, to become contuiuons with tlie subjacent white lamina. I'late xi. texl/p 223 A A 2