CENTRAL EXTREMITY OF THE NERVES. 1017 other class of nerves. Soemmerring divided the seventh pair of Willis into two distinct pairs, — the seventh, or the facial nerves ; and the eighth, or the auditory nerves: he subdivided the eighth pair of Willis into three pairs, namely, the ninth, or the glosso-pharyngeal; the tenth, or the pneumogastric; and the eleventh, or the spinal accessory nerves of WUlis. But Soemmerring's modification, as well as Malacarne's, vrho admitted fifteen pairs of cranial nerves, and also Paletta's, who described as a particular nerve that branch of the fifth pair which is distributed to the temporal and buccinator muscles, ap- pear to me to be faulty, because they cause a confusion of ideas without leading to any advantage. We shall, therefore, adhere to the classification of Willis, which is most generally adopted. Nevertheless, with Vicq d'Azyr, we shall prefer a nomenclature founded upon the distribution of the nerves to one which is purely numerical. Willis conceived the grand idea of separating the nerves of voluntary from those of involuntary motion. Bichat seized upon this idea, which had already been rendered fruitful by Winsldw and Reil; he unfolded it even to the mi- nutest details, and appropriated to himself in some measure the distinction of the nerves into those of organic and those of animal life. The cerebro-spinal nerves constitute the nervous system of animal life; the great sympathetic nerve forms by , itself the nervous system of organic life. This last-named nerve consists of a series of ganglia, or small nervous centres distinct from each other and from the brain. Bichat, moreover, anticipating all the impor- tance of the origin of the nerves, endeavoured to class them, not according to the points at which they emerged from the cranium, but according to their origin, viz. into the nerves of the cerebrum, which are ten in number; the nerves of the pons Varolii, six in number ; and the nerves of the spinal mar- row, thirty-four in number ; the only disadvantage of this classification con- sists in its having been premature. Other less important, and in general rather physiological than anatomical subdivisions of the nerves have been established. Thus, in reference to their consistence, the nerves have been divided into the hard which are motor nerves, and the soft which are sensory; the former are said to come from the spinal cord, the latter from the brain. The old distinction of the nerves into nerves of sensation, and nerves of motion, has been lately revived; and we shall have occasion to recur to it, as well as to Sir Charles Bell's classification of the nerves into the symmetrical or primitive, and the superadded or respiraiory system. The nerves might also be classified according to their size, but this mode of distinction would be completely useless. Every nerve presents for our con- sideration a central extremity, a course, and a peripheral extremity. Tlie Central Extremity of the Nerves. The central extremity of the nerves is that part by which they communicate or are connected with the cerebro-spinal axis. It is generally called the origin of the nerves. The use of such metaphorical expressions as origin, production, and efflorescence, has not been without disadvantage to science ; for by the majority of anatomists they are employed not in a figurative but in a literal sense.* The examination of the central extremity of the nerves is perhaps the most imponant part of their study, because the properties of the nerves depend in a great measure upon their point of connexion with the central part of the ner- vous system. This point is, in reference to each nerve, constant and invari- able, not only m man, but throughout the animal kingdom, so that its exact determination enables us to establish vf^hat are the analogous parts of the ence- phalon in different species. ^ iZ aT^^\^^"\ .inatomy, and the anatomy of the fcetus, prove the independent formation of the diiTercnt parts of the nervous system. ' lurniaiion oi