ANGEIOLOGY. 070 and anastomoses at the apex -with the right or posterior coronary artery Not unfrequently this artery divides into two branches, one of which runs along the anterior furrow, while the other passes upon the anterior surface of the left ventricle. In this course, opposite the base of the ventricles, tlie artery gives off an auriculo-ventricular branch, which, arising at a right angle, enters the left auriculo-ventricuJar furrow, and passing along it turns round the base of the left ventricle, as far as the posterior inter-ventricular furrow {e,fig. 192.), where it anastomoses with the right coronary artery. The right or posterior coronary artery is larger than the left ; it arises to the right of the infundibulum, between that part and the right auricle. Imme- diately after its origin it is surrounded with a large quantity of fat, and turns directly, so as to gain the right auriculo-ventricular furrow. At the upper end of the posterior interventricular furrow {e,fig. 192.) it bends at a right angle, and entering the furrow, runs along it to the apex of the heart, where it anas- tomoses with the left coronary artery. At the point where it changes its di- rection, the right coronary artery gives off a branch, which anastomoses with the auriculo-ventricular branch of the left artery. From this description it follows, that the cardiac arteries and their principal divisions occupy the furrows of the heart: that they form two vascular circles, which are placed at right angles to each other like the furrows themselves; that the auriculo-ventricular circle is formed on the right by the trunk of the right cardiac, and on the left by a branch of the left cardiac artery ; that the vessels forming these two circles are tortuous, but especially those on the ven- tricles, because that part of the heart is subject to greater variations in its dimensions than the part with which the auriculo-ventricular circle is in re- lation ; and lastly, that both coronary arteries anastomose by inosculation, and therefore can easily supply each other. All the arteries of the heart proceed from these two circles. The auriculo- ventricular circle gives off some ascending or auricular branches, an aortico- pulmonary branch to the origins of the aorta and pulmonary artery, and an adipose branch, all of which were pointed out by Vieussens ; also some de- scending or ventricular branches, the two principal of which run somewhat obliquely along the right and left borders of the heart. The ventricular circle gives off branches which penetrate the fleshy fibres at right angles. A large artery, which has been described as the artery of the septum, appears to be one of the terminal branches of the left coronary artery ; it dips into and is lost in the substance of the septum. Lastly, the coronary arteries communicate with the bronchial. They are very liable to calcareous deposits. Arteries arising from the Thoracic Aorta. These may be divided into visceral branches, all of wMch arise from the front of the aorta, viz. the bronchial and the oesophageal, and parietal branches, which arise from the back of the aorta, viz. the aortic intercostals. The Bronchial Arteries. Dissection. Carefully take away the heart and pericardium, dissect the bronchi, and trace these arteries both to their origin and towards their ter- mination. Number and origin. The bronchial arteries (see fig. 198.) vary much both in number and origin. There are generally two on each side ; but sometimes there are three or even four arising either at different heights, or by a common trunk. Occasionally, one of them arises from the subclavian, or from the in- ternal mammary, or rather from the first intercostal, or, lastly, from the second, or even the third'intercostal artery. I have seen the inferior thyroid artery give off a bronchial artery, which,