1147 THE SUPERIOR CERVICAL GANGLION. The superior cervical ganglion (/) is olive-shaped or fusiform : it is situated in front of the second and third cervical vertebrae, from -which it is separated by the rectus capitis anticus ; it is behind the internal carotid artery, and the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumogastric, and hypo-glossal nerves ; its upper extre- mity is about ten or twelve lines distant from the lower orifice of the carotid canal; it is said to have been found two inches from it. It is larger than the other cervical ganglia (ganglion cervicale magnum), but it varies much both in its length and its other dimensions; thus, its lower extremity has been seen to reach the fourth, fifth, and even the sixth cervical vertebra. Its colour is greyish, and its surface smooth : not unfrequently it is bifurcated at its lower extremity; it is rather often double. Lobstein has figured a case of this kind; and there were also two superior cervical ganglia, one placed above the other, in a case of hypertrophy of these ganglia, examined and represented by myself. {Anat. Path. liv. i. pi. 3.) These cases of a double superior cervical ganglion evidently depend on sub- division of the single ganglion usually existing. The branches which end in or emerge from the superior cervical ganglion may be divided into superior, inferior, external, internal, and anterior. I shall divide them into those which communicate with the cranial and cervical nerves, those which communicate with the other cervical ganglia, and into arterial and visceral branches. The superior cervical ganglion also gives off several twigs to the muscles of the prsevertebral region. The superior cervical ganglion communicates with the cranial nerves by means of its superior or carotid branch and its anterior branches. It com- municates with the cervical nerves by its external branches. It communicates with the other cervical ganglia by its inferior branch. Its visceral and arterial branches are the pharyngeal, the cardiac, and the branches for the external carotid. /, The Superior or Carotid Branch from the Inferior Cervical Ganglion, The superior or carotid branch, or the branch of communication with the nerves which constitute the anterior cranial pair, has been for a long time regarded as the origin of the sympathetic nerve ; and as, previously to the time of Meckel, the anastomosis of this carotid branch with the sixth cranial nerve, or external motor of the eye, was the only one known, it was supposed that the sympathetic arose from the sixth nerve ; the discovery of the vidian nerve by the elder Meckel has led to the admission of two origins or roots of the sympathetic, namely, one from the fifth and another from the sixth cranial nerve. Since the researches of modern anatomists, the study of the superior or carotid branch of the superior cervical ganglion, has become one of the most complicated points in the anatomy of the nervous system. This carotid branch appears to be a prolongation of the superior cei-vica! ganglion; it tapers as it approaches the carotid canal, into which it enters, after having divided into two branches, one of which runs on the inner side and the other on the outer side of the artery. These branches communicate with each other, subdivide, and unite to form the carotid plexus, and having reached the cavernous sinus form a plexus, named the cavernous jo/exas, which gives off the communicating branches to the sixth and fifth nerves, and also the small plexuses which surround the internal carotid and its branches.* Laumonier, and after him Lobstein and several others, described a ganglion, named the carotid ganglion, in the first turn of the carotid canal; but it is in vain to search for it, unless some sUght enlargements on the external and internal branches, wherever they give off or receive twigs, are to be regarded as ganghonic. f o e . »o™etimes single, and turns spirally around the artery, beins nlaced Je/sel ' ' °" ^8^'" ™ the outer side of toe t Arnold, whose authority upon such u subject is of great weight, has nevor seen this ganglion ;