THE EPIDERMIS. 843 gular manner, and resembling in appearance the puncta lachrymalia in the evelids If the skin be examined with a lens during life, whilst the person is perspiring, drops of the excreted fluid are seen to exude, and form into a small elobule which is soon lost by evaporation, and after a few seconds another globule'makes its appearance. It is impossible to conceive how seve- ral celebrated anatomists could have denied the existence of pores in the ^^Della Torre Fontana, and Mascagni believed that the epidermis was or- ganised and that it consisted of a network of lymphatic vessels. But as Panizza has clearly proved (Osservazimi Antropo-zootomico Fisiohgiche, 1830, p 83 ) the lymphatic network always lies beneath the epidermis, which may by maceration, be raised up from it. After the example of Panizza 1 have' endeavoured to inject the epidermis upon the soles of the feet and upon other parts of the body, but without being able to find a single vessel. As for the opinion that the epidermis contains arterial and venous capillaries, it is so at variance with the results of observation, that it does not require refutation. The epidermis, then, is unorganised [non-vascular]. It is a product of secretion, a layer of concrete, transparent, and very hy- grometric mucus; a sort of horny matter, of variable thickness, capable of re- production after having been destroyed, and the morbid alterations of which result, not from any proper vital action in itself, but from a diseased condition of those living parts of the skin by which it seems to be produced. As to the structure of the epidermis, it has been repeatedly stated to consist of imbricated scales; but the most careful examination discloses nothing more than a layer of uniform structure, into which the papilte enter; so that it may be decomposed, hypothetically and even actually, by the aid of the scalpel, in some animals, into a number of agglutinated tubes or sheaths, each of which belongs to a single papilla. The different forms of the fragments of epidermis, detached either spontaneously or in consequence of disease, depend upon ac- cidental circumstances, and show the continuity of this membrane in the human subject, f I shall presently describe the relations of the epidermis to the hair, the nails, and the sebaceous follicles. palm of the hand (as in fig. 227.), and hardened in a solution of carbonate of potash. They are situated in the subcutaneous adipose cellular tissue (/); they consist of a long convoluted tube (or of two tubes which unite together), ending in an efferent duct (A), which opens (i) upon the free surface of the epidermis, and is lined by flattened epidermic corpuscules. Where the epidermis is thin, these ducts are nearly straight, as in the scalp (see^^. 228.). and their orifices are scattered irregularly over the surface; where it is thick, they have a spiral course, as in the palm and sole (J% 227.), where their orifices are arranged in single rows on the papillary ridges. These spiral ducts are turned in opposite directions on the right and left extremities ; the average number of their orifices is fifty in the square line, the filaments described in the text as connecting the epidermis to the dermis are the epidermic linings drawn out of these ducts, and out of the sebaceous and piliferous follicles.] * See note, p. 842. t [The epidermic portion of the skin has been so long supposed to consist of several distinct structures, that it is still convenient to describe separately an epidermis, a pigmentum, and a rete mucosura ; but modern research has shown, that these are merely different layers of the same structure, in different stages of developement. The most superficial and hardest of these layers, which is separated from the skin in vesication during life, and by maceration after death, is the epidermis described in the text, and by authors generally ; the deeper, more recently formed, and softer portions, which may be displayed and subdivided into several layers by maceration and dissection, constitute the pigmentum and the rete mucosum : together, deVmis extra-vascular, but not inorganic layers, form what is now called the epi- Thus defined, the epidermis exactly resembles the epithelium of mucous membranes, in con- •isUng of a number of adherent nucleated corpuscules each of which undergoes an inde- pondcnt developement. Immediately upon the surface of the true skin, these corpuscules are soft roundish vesicles, containing a distinct nucleus and peculiar pigment granules, imd ad- hering together by a viscid matter the cytoblastema, in which they are fiFst developed. In approaching the surface of the cuticle they become larger and more compressed, their walls become th cker and denser thoir nuclei less distinct, and their pigment paler, until at length they form the thin, fiattened, horny, nucleated, colourless discs, which, adhering to each other fh?fJLi".n!lfi^ T^'uf K <=°"''"'""' the upper and horny portion of the epidermis, from the free surface of which they are constantly being thrown ofli" as minute scales, to be continu-