676 ANGEIOLOGY. size and for its length. It passes vertically downwards, behind the first portion of the duodenum near the pylorus. Having reached below the duodenum, it changes its direction, passes from right to left (l) along the great curvature of the stomach, where it inosculates with the left gastro-epiploic ih,Jig. 201.). In one case, where the hepatic artery was given off by the superior mesenteric, the right gastro-epiploic arose directly from the coeliac axis. The first portion of this vessel, usually called the gastro-duodenal artery, furnishes several branches to the pylorus, which may be called the inferior pyloric; it then gives a branch to the duodenum and the head of the pancreas, named the pancreatico-duodenalis (A), and remarkable for its anastomosing with the superior mesenteric; an arrangement that leads, as it were, to the cases in which the hepatic itself is derived from the last mentioned artery; it is also remarkable for its size, which is sometimes such that the continuation of the vessel, the right gastro-epiploic artery proper, is only half the size of the trunk from which it is given off (the gastro-duodenal). In its horizontal portion along the great curvature of the stomach, the right gastro-epiploic sends both ascending and descending branches: the former, or gastric branches, divide into two sets ; one for the anterior, and one for the posterior surface of the stomach. The latter, or epiploic branches (3 g, fig. 200.), are extremely long and slender; they pass downwards parallel to each other, without any windings, in the substance of the two anterior layers of the great omentum, are reflected upwards at its lower border, just as the two layers are themselves, and accompany them as far as the transverse colon, to which they are distributed. The cystic artery (it fig- 200.) is a small vessel which almost always arises from the right of the terminal divisions of the hepatic artery, reaches the neck of the gall bladder, and divides into two branches; one superior, running between the liver and the vesicula, the other inferior, which pursues a tor- tuous course between the peritoneum and the proper coat of the gall bladder, divides and subdivides, and is finally distributed to the mucous membrane. Terminal branches. Of the two terminal branches of the hepatic artery, one dips into the right extremity of the transverse fissure of the liver, and the other into the left extremity of the same fissure : in these situations they he- come applied to the corresponding branches of the vena portse and hepatic duct, are inclosed with them in the capsule of Glisson, and closely accompany the corresponding ramifications of those vessels through all their divisions and subdivisions. TJie Splenic Artery. Fig. 201. The splenic artery (d, figs. 200, 201.) is larger than either of the other di- visions of the coeliac axis. Immedi- ately after its origin it is received into a slight groove, formed along the whole of the upper border of the pancreas (i). It passes from the right to the left side, and is exceedingly tortuous in its course *: having reached the Ml us of the spleen, it divides into a great number, of terminal branches (n, fig. 201.), which enter that organ separately. It is not rare to find one of these branches detached from the others, to be distributed either to the upper or the lower end of the spleen. Near the spleen, the splenic artery and its divisions are inclosed within the gastro-splenic omentum. « I have seen some splenic arteries not at all tortuous; and at other times I have found the curvatures so decided, that the lower part only of the curves came m contact with the pancreas.