THE NERVE FOR THE OBTURATOR INTERNUS. 1079 the larger of these aiaments enters the middle of the muscle ; the other, which is smaller, passes upon the sides of the prostate in the male, and of the vagina in the fem^e, and terminates in the anterior portion of the muscle. The Nerve for the Obturator Internus. It arises from the anterior part of the sacral plexus, and more particularly from that portion which belongs to the lumbo-sacral cord and the first sacral nerve: it passes immediately behind the spine of the ischium, is reflected forwards through the small sciatic notch, and expands into three diverging branches, which are distributed within the muscle. In order to expose this nerve the lesser sacro-sciatic ligament may be divided. The Inferior Hcemorrhoidal Nerve. This nerve, which is intended for the sphincter ani and the adjacent skin, arises (from '^,fig. 290.) on the inner side of the internal pudic nerve, of which it is sometimes a branch, passes, like that nerve, behind the spine of the is- chium, and then between the two sacro-sciatic ligaments, reaches the front of that portion of the gluteus maximus which projects below the great sacro- sciatic ligament, communicates with the superficial nerve of the perineum, gains the side of the rectum, and opposite the upper border of the sphincter expands into a great number of branches; of these, some are anterior, and often anas- tomose with one of the divisions of the superficial perineal nerve; others are median, and pass upon the sides of the sphincter ani as far as the skin, in which they terminate ; lastly, others axe posterior, and proceed to the back part of the sphincter. The hsemorrhoidal or anal nerve is sometimes distributed exclusively to the skin round the anus; it may then be named the anal cutaneous nerve. The Internal Pudic Nerve. Dissection, It is convenient to commence the dissection of this nerve from within outwards, by dividing the lesser sacro-sciatic ligament, and separating the obturator fascia from the obturator internus muscle. The superior branch of the nerve upon the dorsum of the penis may then be traced without' taking it away. The perineal branches must then be very carefully dissected, and the continuity of these branches with those ali'eady dissected within the pelvis should be made out. The internal pudic nerve {d, fig. 293.) arises from the lower border of the flattened band formed by the nerves of the sacral plexus opposite to their junction ; it passes behind the spine of the ischium, and then enters the ischio- rectal fossa through the lesser sciatic notch, that is between the two sacro- sciatic ligaments, on the inner side of the internal pudic artery, and divides into two branches, (Z,^5r. 290.) the inferior branch or perineal nerve, and the superior or deep branch, or the dorsal nerve of the penis. The Perineal Nerve, The inferior branch or perineal nerve corresponds to the trunk of the internal pudic artery and to all its divisions, excepting the dorsal artery of the penis. It is the true continuation of the nerve, and accompanies the trunk of the internal pudic artery, being situated below that vessel; it runs forwards and then upwards between the obturator internus and the obturator fascia, describes a curve haying its concavity directed upwards, and placed on the inner side of the tuberosity of the ischium, perforates the obturator fascia, opposite to the junction of the tuberosity with the ascending ramus of the ischium, and im- mediately divides into two branches, an inferior or anterior superficial perineal, which corresponds to the superficial artery of the perineum, and a superior, which corresponds to the artery of the bulb, but which has a much more extensive distribution ; I shall call it the bidbo-vrethral nerve. The collateral branches of the perineal nerve. During its course, the perineal