1105 THE OPTIC NERVES. H H 2 Fig. 297. cally downwards, and the posterior backwards Some of them only interlace as they leave the cribriform plate They all expand into very dehcate pencils. They are situated between the periosteum and the pituitary membrane, and none of them reach either the inferior turbinated bone, or the maxillary, sphe- noidal, or ethmoidal sinuses; on the inner wall of each fossa they do not pass lower than the middle of the septum; and on the outer wall they do not de- » " scend below the middle turbinated bone.* With regard to the ultimate termination of the fibres of the olfactory nerve, there has S a difference of opinion; some believe that they terminate m Danilte Ukfthose of the skin; and others imagine that they expand mto a LiraS, lit the optic nerve in the retina and the auditory nerve in the membranous labyrinth. I have never seen them terminate otherwise than by pencils of extremely delicate filaments very closely apphed to ea«h other Function. The olfactory nerves are the essential organs of smeU. Iheir distribution proves that the sense of smeU resides essentially and exclusively in the roof of the nasal fossa and the immediately adjacent parts. The Second Pair, or the Optic Nerves. The optic nerves have already been described from their origin to the optic commissure, and from the commissure to the optic foramina (2, fig. 296.) ; they pass through these foramina together with the ophthalmic arteries which are below them; they are also accompanied by a sheath formed by the dura mater and by a prolongation of the arachnoid; the latter being immediately reflected from them. The optic nerve, which is flattened up to this point, becomes rounded on emerging from the optic foramen, and is received in a fibrous ring formed by the origins of the muscles of the eye; it here also changes its direction slightly, for instead of passing obliquely forwards and outwards, it runs almost directly forwards to the globe of the eye, which it enters behind, and somewhat below, and to the inner side (see o, figs. 237, 238. 240.). There is a very evident circular constriction at the point where the optic nerve enters the eye.f During its course in the orbit, the optic nerve is surrounded by a great quantity of adipose tissue, which separates it from the muscles and nerves. The ophthalmic ganglion and the ciliary nerves and vessels are in immediate contact with it. It is accompanied, as far as the sclerotic, by a fibrous sheath given off from the dura mater, so that this nerve differs from all others, in being provided with two protecting sheaths, namely, a proper neurilemma, and a sheath formed by the dura mater. A section of the optic nerve also presents throughout its course that peculiar appearance resembling the pith of the rush, which we have already described as commencing at the commissure (see Central Extremity of the Optic Nerve). As it enters the ball of the eye, the nerve loses its two sheaths, which ap- pear to become continuous with the sclerotic, and is thus reduced to its pulp, which spreads out to form the retina. In some subjects the retina presents a distinctly radiated appearance around the abrupt termination of the nerve (see Globe of the Eye — Retina). Function. The optic nerves are the nerves of vision ; their continuity with the retina leaves no doubt of this being their function. • In mammalia, and particularly in the horse, a cord arises from the olfactory nerve, runs downwards and forwards along the septum, parallel to and in front of the naso-palatine nerve, and terminates in the small incisory cavity which exists in the arch of the palate in the lower animals, and is thought by M. Jacobson to be the seat of a sixth sense. t M. Arnold, in his beautiful plates of the nerves of the head, has represented two very de- licate filaments as establishing a communication between the superior maxillary and the optio nerves.