^JEUROLOGY. 1102 ■which it is closely applied, and then becoming free passes outwards and up- wards. It has no neurilemma up to the point where it becomes free. The real origin of this nerve (7, fig. 295.) is much deeper ; it may be traced through the restiform body into the fasciculus of reinforcement, near the median furrow of the calamus scriptorius. The central extremity of the auditory nerve. The auditory nerve, or porlio mollis of the seventh (on the outer side of 7, fig. 275.), is ribbon-shaped, and non-fasciculated at its origin : it arises (7', fig. 295.) in the same depression as the facial nerve, but behind that nerve, and opposite to the restiform body : it presents two very distinct roots: an anterior, which is arranged like the facial nerve ; and a posterior, which turns horizontally round the back part of the restiform body, appears upon the posterior surface of the medulla oblongata (see fig. 271.), and separates into fibres which may be traced as far as the median furrow of the calamus scriptorius, and which represent some of the barbs of the quill. It is very generally admitted that the auditory nerves have a transverse commissure, but this does not appear to me to be clearly demonstrated. The portio dura and the portio mollis of the seventh nerve, which arise so near to each other, follow the same cranial course : they arise at the same height from the medulla oblongata, pass outwards and upwards in front of the pneumogastric or subpeduncular lobule of the cerebellum, and enter the internal auditory meatus (7,^^. 296.). During this course, the portio dura always lies in front of the portio mollis. The auditory nerve is the softest of all the cranial nerves; the difference between it and the facial nerve, in this respect, has led in a great measure to the subdivision of the nerves into the soft or sensory, and the hard or motor. The Central Extremity of the Eighth Nerve. Of the three nerves on each side which together constitute the eighth nerve (8,/^s. 270. 276. 295.), the glosso-pharyngeal is the highest, the pneumogastric is the next, and the spinal accessory is the lowest. The central extremity of the glosso-pharyngeal and pneumogastric nerves. The glosso-pharyngeal and pneumogastric nerves have a common origin. They arise like the spinal nerves by a linear series of funiculi {see fig. 270.), which come off, not from the furrows between the olivary and restiform bodies but from the restiform body itself, on a line with the auditory nerves. Sommerring states that he has seen some of these funiculi arise from the anterior wall of the fourth ventricle. .... Moreover, as in the spinal nerves each funiculus of origm is formed by the union of two or three converging filaments ; the funiculi of the glosso-pharyn- geal nerve which are the highest and which come off immediately below the auditory nerve, are not distinct at their origin from those of the pneumo- gastric • nor. as wiU presently be stated, are the funicuU of origin of the pneumogastric distinct from those of the spinal accessory. The division into the three nerves cannot be made until after the funicuh are finally grouped. It has been stated, but without proof, that the fibres of the glosso-pharyn- eeal and pneumogastric nerves might be traced through the restiform body as far as the back of the medulla oblongata. The funiculi of origin of these nerves which are enveloped by the neurilemma at the point where they emerge from the medulla, are so small that, when torn off, scarcely any trace of their points of attachment can be detected even by the aid of a lens. ^ The central extremity of the spinal accessory nerve of WMs. The m^,; o/ the spinal accessory nerve (s fig. 295.) is quite peculiar, and has obtamed much notice from modern anatomists. , , . »i „ it ariserf^m the sides of the cervical region of the spinal cord between the anterior and posterior roots of the cervical nerves, and beli.nd the l.gamentum deSatum' Sir. C. Bell, who classes it among the respiratory nerves,