THE PORTAL SYSTEM OF VEINS. 793 arteries enter into their substance from every point. The venous trunks run in the "-rooves seen upon the surface of the organ. The left middle supra- renal vein almost always enters the renal vein of the same side; the right vein generally opens into the vena cava inferior. The Spermatic or Ovarian Veins. The spermatic veins commence in the interior of the testicle, where they form a great number of those filaments which traverse the proper substance of the gland: they all terminate in branches, which are applied to the inner surface of the tunica albuginea, and are bound down to it by a thin layer of fibrous tissue, a disposition somewhat resembling that of the sinuses of the dura mater. The spermatic veins perforate the tunica albuginea on the inner side of the epididymis, not opposite that body. They are soon joined by the veins of the epididymis, so as to form a plexus, which communicates with the dorsal veins of the penis, and with the external and internal pudic veins. The sper- matic veins soon unite into five or six trunks, which pass upwards in front of the vas deferens, and together with that canal and the spermatic artery enter into the formation of the spermatic cord. These veins are tortuous ; they divide, and anastomose so as to form the spermatic venous plexus, which is often the seat of varicose dilatations. The veins ascend through the inguinal ring and canal, and having reached the interior of the pelvis, they leave the vas deferens, accompany the corresponding spermatic artery along the psoas muscle, and terminate either in the renal vein, or in the inferior vena cava of their own side. In some cases the right spermatic vein opens both into the renal vein and the inferior cava. When there are two veins on one side, they communicate with each other by a great number of transverse branches, and before ter- minating unite into a single trunk. The name plexus pampiniformis is given to a plexus generally formed by the spermatic veins before their termination : this plexus is more frequently found on the left than on the right side, according to the observations of Meckel. The spermatic veins sometimes communicate with some branches of the portal system. The left spermatic vein passes imder the sigmoid flexure of the colon, which may perhaps account for the greater frequency of varicocele on the left side. The ovarian veins accompany the arteries of the same name: they com- mence by several sets of branches, viz. uterine branches, which communicate very freely with the uterine sinuses; ovarian branches, properly so called ; branches from the round ligaments; and, lastly, some from the Fallopian tubes. All these unite within the substance of the broad ligaments, and pass vertically up- wards without being at all tortuous: in some cases they form a plexus pampini- formis. The ovarian veins, like the uterine veins, become much enlarged during pregnancy. The Inferior Phrenic Veins. These exactly follow the course of the inferior phi-enic arteries, to each of which there are two veins. The hepatic veins do not in any way correspond to the artery of that name ; they form a separate system, or, rather, they are connected with the portal venous system, of which they may be regarded as an appendage. The PoiiTAi. System oi- Veins. The system of the venaportce {vena porlaram), or the portal system, constitutes a special venous apparatus, appended to the general venous system, and re-