1053 THK MEDIAN NERVE IN THE FOREARM. This last relation is not constant: I have seen the nerve on the outer side of the artery at the bend of the elbow. The following are its relations with the other nerves: the internal cutaneous nerve runs along its inner side, at first immediately in contact with it, and then separated from it by the fascia of the arm. ' The ulnar nerve runs behind it in the upper third of the arm, and is then separated from it, so that the two nerves bound the sides of a triangular interval, the base of which is below and the apex above. The median nerve does not give any branch in the arm.* In the Fore-arm. The median nerve, like the brachial artery, to the inner side of which it is generally situ- ated, passes beneath the tendinous expansion of the biceps, and is separated from the elbow-joint by the brachialis anticus. It almost always perforates the pronator teres in such a manner as to leave only a very small tongue of fleshy fibres behind itf ; it then passes (rf, fig. 288.) between the flexor sublimis and flexor profundus digitorum, opposite the cel- lular interval between the latter muscle and the flexor longus poUicis: at the lower part of the fore-arm it runs along the outer border of the flexor sublimis, where it might be easily ex- posed between the tendon of the palmaris lon- gus on the inside, and of the flexor carpi ra- dialis on the outside. I have seen this nerve perforate the upper part of the flexor sublimis, which formed a sheath for it. Branches. These are muscular, excepting the palmar cutaneous, which arises at the lower part of the fore-arm: they supply all the muscles of the anterior region of the fore-arm except a part of the flexor profundus, and the whole of the flexor carpi ulnaris, which receive branches from the ulnar nerve. Lastly, with the excep- tion of the palmar cutaneous, the branches arise near the bend of the elbow. The branch for the pronator teres comes off from the anterior part of the median nerve, a little above the elbow-joint, and passes downwards to enter the substance of the muscle. It gives off several articular filaments, which dip from before backwards, around the termination of the brachial artery and the commencement of the radial and ulnar arteries, form loops with their conca- vities turned upwards in the angle of bifurcation of the brachial, and then enter the articulation. » [Except occasionally an anastomotic branch to the musculo-cutaneous, after the latter has emerged from the coraco-brachialis.] + In one case, in which the humoral .-ittachments of the pronator teres were as high as those of the supinator longus, the median nerve passed through the highest attachments of the pro- nator teres, and\yas situated between the brachialis anticus and that muscle, which also covered It at the bend rff the elbow; m this same case, the brachial artery divided into the radial and ulnar at the middle of the arm ; and the ulnar artery applied against the nerve had the samo relations as the brachial artery in ordinary cases.