THE FACIAL VEIN. 779 aged than in adult and young subjects, and connects the superior and inferior uetrosal sinuses and the .cavernous sinus of one side with the corresponding sinuses of the opposite side. In old subjects, the basUar surface not unfre- quently appears as if corroded opposite this sinus, the cavity of which often presents a cellular or spongy structure. The Posterior Occipital Sinuses. These (A h) are the smallest of all the sinuses of the dura mater: they com- mence one at each foramen lacerum posticus, pass from thence upon each side of the foramen magnum, converge towards the falx cerebelli, enter its sub- stance, and open separately into the confluence of the sinuses: they receive some small veins from the bones of the cranium and from the dura mater: the posterior occipital sinuses may be said to represent the chord of the arc formed by the lateral sinuses.* The Confluences of the Sinuses, From what has been stated above, it appears that there are three central points in which all the sinuses meet; one situated behind and in the middle line, and one on each side of the middle line in front. The term confluence of the sinuses might be applied to all three points, but it has hitherto been con- fined to the posterior and median central point, or occipital confluence. AH the sinuses open directly into one of these three points, the inferior longi- tudinal, if it be considered a sinus, forming the only exception. The posterior or occipital confluence, or torcular Herophili. If that portion of the dura mater which corresponds to the occipital protuberance be opened from behind, six orifices will be exposed to view, viz. a superior, which be- longs to the superior longitudinal sinus; an anterior, sometimes divided into two by a vertical band, which belongs to the straight sinus; two lateral orifices, which belong to the two lateral sinuses; and two inferior, which belong to the posterior occipital sinuses. The point at which these sinuses meet is named the torcular Herophili (n n, figs. 220, 221.), because it is supposed that the columns of blood flowing from the different sinuses must, in some degree, press against each other. The anterior or petro-sphenoidal confluence. Between the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone and the sphenoid bone, there is on each side another confluence, at which a great number of sinuses meet, viz. in front, the cavernous sinus and the coronary sinus; on the inside, the transverse occipital sinus; and behind, the superior and inferior petrosal sinuses. The Branches of Okigin of the Jugulak Veins. T}ie Facial Vein. The facial, or external maxillary vein (e, fig. 219.), represents the artery of the same name; also the terminal divisions of the ophthalmic artery; and lastly, some of the branches of the internal maxillary artery. It commences in the frontal region, where it is called the frontal vein; at the inner angle of the eye it is named the angular vein; and afterwards the Jacial vein until its termination. The frontal vein, (la vein preparate; a, fig. 219.), is a subcutaneous vein, which was selected by the ancients for phlebotomy: it is sometimes single, and IS then placed in the median line; but there are generally two frontal veins united by a transverse anastomosis. Among the numerous varieties * [They sometimes join tlie lateral sinuses in front, as sliown in tlie ligure.]