NEUROLOGY. still in doubt Nor has Soemmerring himself, after a long detail of invc.<;ti gation into the subject, arrived at a more satisfactory result. * A careful examination of the infundibulum has convinced me that there is at least in a certain number of cases, a funnel-shaped canal, precisely simila^ to that which was described and figured by Vesalius : it is wide above, where It communicates with the third ventricle, and narrow below, where it reaches the pituitary body, a body which the ancients had not named, but which Vesalius called glans pituifam excipicns. In order to demonstrate this canal, the optic tract must be turned backwards, and the semi-transparent corneous lamina, which forms the anterior part of the floor of the third ventricle, must be divided ; behind a white band, which is quite distinct from the anterior com- missure of the brain, there is then seen a circular opening sufBciently wide to admit the blunt end of a large probe, which may accordingly be passed through the entire length of the infundibulum as far as the pituitary body. Again : by cutting the infundibulum across, and then blowing upon it through a blow-pipe, or letting some drops of water fall upon it, a perfectly circular opening may be demonstrated, which cannot be produced by the means em- ployed in the demonstration. Lastly : we may adopt the method of Vesalius, who filled the third ventricle with a coloured liquid, which soon reached the pituitary body. The same experiment succeeds still better with mercury. Nevertheless, I ought to state, that in two cases of dropsy of the third ventricle, no fluid escaped from the in- fundibulum when it was cut across. It is easy to show the structure of the infundibulum. A fibrous and vascular membrane, continuous with the pla mater, forms its external covering, and this is lined by a thin layer of grey matter, which is continuous with that of the floor of the third ventricle. This grey matter forms a solid cord when the infundibulum is not tubular. The pituitary body f is a small body, weighing from five to ten grains, which occupies the sella turcica, or supra-sphenoidal fossa (appendice sus-sphenoidale du cerveau, Chauss.; hypophysis, Soemm.'). The better to appreciate its size, it is convenient to break down, with a chisel, the quadrilateral plate which forms the posterior wall of the sella turcica or pituitary fossa, and which is itself hollowed in front, so as to increase the antero-posterior diameter of that cavity. * Inclosed in the sella turcica, the pituitary body is kept Ln that situation on each side by the fold of the dura mater, which constitutes the cavernous sinus, and above by a portion of the same membrane, which forms a circular orifice around the infundibulum. The coronary sinus, which is situated between the pituitary body and the margin of the sella turcica in front and behind, and the cavernous sinuses on each side, form a vascular circle around this body, but it is not bathed in the blood as stated by some. The upper surface of the pituitary body is slightly excavated, still it is not unfrequently convex, so as to project more or less above the level of its fossa. On removing the pituitary body, it is seen to be formed of two distinct lobes, of which the anterior is the larger, whilst the posterior occupies the small cavity in the quadrilateral plate. These two lobes have been very well described by the brothers Wenzel; they are not of the same colour, the pos- • Ludwig, Script. Neurolog.; Soemmerring, De basi Encepliali, p. 41. " Quibus omnibus absque partium studio rite mecum perpensis, non potui non complecti illorum virorum senten- tiara, qui infundibulum, si non perl'ecte solidum, certe non adeo conspicuo, uti veteres opmati sunt,' canali perforatum esse, censuerunt. Hunter and Cruiclcshanli say tliat the infundibulum is sometimes solid, and sometimes tubular, t Not shown in/M276. 282. ■. ■. „..ii i In order to obtain a perfect examination of the pituitary body and mfundibiilum, it "f" to sacrifice a brain and the base of the cranium, and to remove, by a circular incision, tlie body of the sphenoid bone, together with the corresponding part of the base of the brain.