840 NEUROLOGY. The papillse receive both arteries and veins; in successful injections ■with mercury, or with glue-size, spirit-varnish or turpentine, coloured with ver- milion, all the papillae are penetrated by the injection, and exhibit, both in their interior and on their surface, a vascular network, which might be called an erectile tissue.* Lymphatics of the skin. K we introduce the pipe of the mercurial injecting apparatus very obliquely beneath the epidermis, the mercury, if the process is successful, will run into a sub-epidermic network of vessels, and will soon cover the skin with a metallic layer. These vessels are most evidently lymphatics, for the mercury soon passes from them into the subcutaneous lymphatic vessels, and from them into the adjacent lymphatic glands: in no case does it enter the bloodvessels. Mascagni, who has given so many representations of the vessels of the skin in his beautiful plates, has delineated in several of them this lymphatic net- work, lying superficially to the layer of bloodvessels. The universal prejudice against microscopical observations had very im- properly thrown some discredit upon the positive results obtained by this great anatomist, when an accidentally successfiil injection enabled Haase to trace and delineate the cutaneous lymphatics of the groin from the skin to the inguinal glands, f M. Lauth also by accident injected the lymphatic network of the same region. Panizza in 1830 clearly demonstrated the arrangement of the superficial lymphatic network upon the glans penis and the prepuce, in his beautiful injections of that organ in the human subject and in animals. Lastly, M. Fohmann {Essai sur les Vaisseaux Lymphatiques de divers Ordres 1833) has made some special researches upon this subject, viz. upon the lymphatic network in the skin and in other parts. Two beautiful plates, one representing the skin of the mamma, and the other that of the scrotum, glans penis, and prepuce, give a perfect idea of the arrangement of this network, which, when filled with mercury, forms a silvery layer beneath the epidermis. From this network branches are given off which perforate the dermis in all directions, and enter the subcutaneous lymphatic vessels proceeding from its internal surface. We have succeeded perfectly in injecting the subcutaneous lymphatic vessels in the entire lower extremity of a new-bom infant, merely by introducing the pipe into the sole of the foot. . This lymphatic network is remarkable for being situated superficially to the bloodvessels, as Mascagni had correctly observed, and for being completely independent of any other system of vessels; also, for its vessels being dilated into ampullae at various places, for being destitute of valves, and for not opening any where upon the surface of the skin; so that, excepting from laceration, the mercury does not escape through the pores of the epidermis. Lastly, the network generally consists of two very distinct layers situated between the epidermis and the dermis; one extremely delicate and super- ficial, the other lying immediately upon the dermis and belonging to deeper The pigmevtum. All the different shades of colour observed in the skin of the several races of mankind belong to either the white, the black, or the cop- nerves of the skin terminate in loops or arches, as had been pointed out by MM.Prevost and Dumas n regird to the nerves of the muscles. We shall elsewhere see what is to be thought concerning the existence of these terminal loops of the nerves in muscles, and the theory of muscular contraction founded upon it. „.,„„•„„ ^ ; 'Je'&ut!iiri^Z"ZV:i^^^^^^ Plategiven in this ^^^Atlr'&fn'^'^^^^^^^^^^ of the following P-ts proceeding f™^ within oCra?ds - -l. The panniculus adiposus. 2. The eternal layer of the dermis chara^^ teS by rfibrous meshes; 3, A vascular layer °f Wt'^eT I'A v^^^ tions of the bloodvessels and veins, united by a ^ma" .q"a°t'ty °/f"™^ The rete mu- network, formed exclusively by the ultimate ramifications of the lymphatics, ft. i ne rt e coBum of Malpighi. 6. The epidermis.