1108 NEUROLOGY. According to Sir C. Bell, the pathetic is the respiratory nerve of the eye. Its origin is situated at the highest part of the respiratory tract. According to the same physiologist, it is the nerve of expression ; it associates the muscles of the eye, and establishes certain relations between the eye and the respiratory system. The Fifth Pair, or the Trigeminal Nerves. The nervus trigeminus (trifacial, Chauss.; 5, Jig. 296.), which, as already stated, arises from the side of the pons Varolii by two distinct roots, gains the upper border of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, over which it is reflected, and near the apex of which there is a depression for the reception of the nerve : a bridge-like fold of the dura mater converts this depression into a canal. The nerve, which increases in width as it passes over the upper border of the petrous bone, continues to get wider whilst upon the upper surface of the same bone, and runs downwards, forwards, and outwards; its fibres immediately spread out and interlace to enter the concave surface of a greyish semilunar enlargement, called the semilunar or Gasserian ganglion. AU the fibres of origin of the fifth nerve do not assist in the formation of this gan- glion ; for on reflecting the nerve from within outwards, a flat cord (6, Jig. 299.) is seen below the ganglion, and giving no fibre to it; and on tracing this cord upon the side of the pons Varolii, it is found to consist of the small root of the fifth nerve, which is at first placed on the inner side of this nerve, and then turns round it to gain itp under surface. This very remarkable disposition establishes a complete analogy between the fifth cranial nerve and the spinal nerves, which, as we have seen, have ganglionic roots (the posterior roots) and non-ganglionic roots (the anterior). The Gasserian ganglion (behind a be, Jig. 298.; c,Jig. 299.) is lodged in a special depression in the petrous portion of the temporal bone (y?^. 296.), and it adheres so closely to the dura mater that it is impossible to separate the ganglion without tearing it. From its convex surface, which is directed for- wards and outwards, proceed three plexiform nervous trunks, which diverge like the toes of a bird; these are, proceeding from before backwards, the ophthalmic nerve of Willis (a. Jigs. 296. 298., &c.), the superior maxillary nerve (6), and the inferior maxillarij nerve (c): the non-ganglionic root (,b,Jig. 299.) of the fifth nerve goes directly to the inferior maxillary division (c) of the nerve: the ophthalmic and the superior maxillary divisions often arise by a common trunk. Several scattered filaments are given off from the three divisions of the nerve, but soon join them again. Com- municating filaments are sometimes seen between the superior and inferior max- illary divisions as these latter enter their respective foramina. The ganglionic nature of the Gasserian ganglion cannot be doubted ; for, like all ganglia, it consists of a greyish, pulpy matter, in which the nervous fibres are spread out, and as it were entangled, to enter into new combinations. The Gasserian ganglion* gives ofi" several filaments for the dura mater, which may be traced into the substance of the tentorium cerebelli: a certain number of filaments appear to be des- tined for that part of the dura mater • The Gasserian ganglion might serve as a type for demonstrating the structure of all gan- glla, so easy is the separation of the grey matter and white hbres.