THE EXTERNAL AUDITORY MEATUS. 889 dition in the human subject, but are so highly developed in timid animals, are intended to move the auricle as a whole. (See Myology.) The intrinsic mitscles move the different parts of the auricular cartilage upon each other Like the extrinsic, they are quite rudimentary. There is no difference in their size in savage and civilised races. They are five in number, four of them being situated on the concave, and one only on the convex, or mastoid surface of the auricle. ^ s • * j The great muscle of the helix (hehcis major, c, fig. 25S.) is situated verti- cally upon the anterior part of the helix, near the tragus; it is a narrow, oblong tongue, fleshy in the middle, and tendinous at its extremities ; its fibres are VGrticfll* The small muscle of the helix (helicis minor, d), the smallest of the intrinsic muscles of the ear, lies upon that portion of the helix which divides the concha into two parts. . The muscle of the tragus (tragicus, e), is a broad band, lymg upon the external surface of the tragus; its fibres are directed vertically. The muscle of the anti-tragus (anti-tragicus, /), is a tongue-like bundle, which covers the external surface of the anti-tragus, and is inserted by a tendon to the upper part of the caudal extremity of the helix. Its use may be to move this caudal extremity upon the anti-tragus. The fifth is the transverse muscle (transversus auriculae, a, ^5.253*.), which is situated on the mastoid surface of the auricle. According to Soemmerring, it consists of a transverse layer of fibres of unequal length, which spread out in a semicircular form from the convexity of the concha to the ridge, corre- sponding to the groove of the helix. I doubt the muscularity of these fibres, which I am inclined to regard as constituting an intrinsic ligament intended to preserve the fold of that portion of the anti-helix by which the concha is bounded behind and above. The arteries of the auricle are the posterior auricular, a remarkable branch of which passes through the cartilage, between the caudal extremity of the helix and the concha, so as to ramify in the cavity of the concha. All the branches of the posterior auricular arteries turn over the free border of the helix, so as to reach the concave surface of the auricle. The anterior auricular arteries arise from the external carotid and the temporal, and divide into inferior branches or arteries of the lobule, and ascending branches. The veins have the same names and follow the same course as the arteries. The nerves of the auricle are derived from the auricular branch of the cervical plexus ; three or four of them ramify upon the internal surface of the auricle. A remarkable branch perforates the cartilage between the anti-tragus and the caudal extremity of the helix, and is distributed to the skin which lines the concha. * The External Auditory Meatus. The external auditory meatus {b,fig. 251.) is a partly cartilaginous, and partly osseous canal, extending from the concha (o) to the membrane of the tym- panum (c). It forms the narrow portion of the ear-trumpet represented by the external ear. It is about an inch in length. Its section represents an ellipse, of which the longest diameter is vertical. Its direction is transverse, and it describes a very slight curve, haying its convexity turned upwards. Moreover, near its ex- ternal orifice, it is bent at an angle which projects upwards, and hence it is necessary to draw the auricle upwards and backwards, if we wish to examine the bottom of the external auditory meatus. The external meatus is in relation with the temporo-maxillary articulation in front, with the mastoid process behind, and with the parotid gland below. » [The auricle also receives twigs from tlie posterior auricular branch of the facial nerve from the .luriculo- emnoral branch of the inferior maxillary division of the fifth nerve ami irom a small branch of the pneumogastric nerve. Sec description of those nerves.]