NEUROLOGY. 1046 take place at very acute angles, results the iuterlacement known as the brachiul plexus. The brachial plexus is broad at its upper part, contracted in the middle, and broad again at its lower part, on account of the divergence of its terminating branches; it communicates with the cervical plexus by a considerable branch which it receives from the fourth cervical nerve, and also by the filament which it gives to the phrenic nerve; it is not so complicated but that the origins of the branches which emanate from it may be traced; I shall take care to do this for each nerve. Relations. At its origin it is situated between the scaleni, which cover it for a greater extent below than above. A very strong aponeurosis, which extends over it and the scaleni also, completely isolates it from the surrounding parts. Lower down, it is situated between the clavicle and subclavius muscle on the one hand, and the first rib and upper part of the serratus maguus on the other. Still lower, it is contained in the cavity of the axilla, separated from the pectoralis major in front by the costo-clavicular aponeuroses, and resting upon the scapulo-humeral articulation behind, from which it is separated by the ten- don of the sub-scapularis. The following are its relations with the axillary artery : — Between the sca- leni and below thein, the artery is situated upon the same plane as the brachial plexus, and lies between the plexus and the first rib. Lower down it is placed on the anterior part of the plexus; at the lower extremity of the plexus it passes under the angle of union of the two roots of the median nerve by which it is embraced ; the axillary vein always lies in front of the artery, and there- fore has less direct relations with the plexus. The branches of the brachial plexus may be divided into the collateral and the terminal. The terminal branches are five in number, namely, the internal cutaneous (g. Jig. 286.) and its accessory, the musculo-cutaneous (6), the median (c), t)is radial „ „, or musculo-spiral (/), and the ulnar (rf) J^ie. 286. J a * »» =^ ^ nerves.* The collateral branches may be divided into — those given off above the clavicle, name- ly, the nerve for the subclavius, those for the levator anguli scapulce and rhomboideus, the posterior tlioracic or nerve for the serratus magnus, the supra-scapular nerve (a) or nerve for the supra- and infra-spinati muscles, and the superior subscapular nerve; those given off opposite the clavicle, namely the thoracic branches; and those given off in the axilla, namely the circumflex nerve (e) and the subscapular branches, which comprehend the nerve for the latissimus dorsi, the nerve for the teres major and the inferior scapular nerve. One branch only, namely the nerve for the subclavius muscle, arises from the front part of the brachial plexus : all the other coUateral branches are given off from the back of the plexus. The Collateral Branches of the Brachial Plexus. . The Branches given qff^liJVr the Clavicle. <^oW^ The nerve for the subclavius muscle. This is a small but constant branch, which comes off from the fifth cervical nerve, immediately before its junction with the sixth, passes vertically downwards in front of the subclavian artery, and then enters perpendicularly into the middle of the subclavius muscle. • I tliink it right to class tlic circumflex nerve among the collateral branches, and not, like most authors, among the terminal branches of the plexus.