THE SUBCLAVIAN VEIN. 787 clavian artery; whilst, on the other hand, it receives other veins that are totally unconnected with the distribution of that artery. I ought to allude in this place to a mode of termination of the collateral veins, which is frequently ob- served, especially in the brachial vein. The circumflex veins for example, instead of entering the brachial vein directly, terminate in a collateral branch, which runs parallel to the brachial vein, like a canal running alongside a river, and communicates with that vein above and below. Several large veins' have these collateral canals, which establish a communication between different points of their length. Thus, I have seen a venous trunk proceed from the external jugular, descend through the brachial plexus of nerves, and enter the lower part of the axillary vein. The deep veins, moreover, communicate freely and frequently with the superficial veins. They are, also, provided with valves, like the superficial veins, and, it appears, even with a greater number: an injection thrown from the heart towards the extremities will not enter more readily into one than into the other set. We always find two valves at the mouth of a small vein where it opens into the larger trunk ; and it is a remarkable fact, that, while the valves situated in the course of the veins are sometimes passed by the injection, those which are placed at the mouths of the small veins are scarcely ever overcome. The Subclavian Vein. The term subclavian is generally given to all that portion of the brachial venous trunk which extends from the vena cava superior to the scaleni muscles : but this vein may be described more naturally, as being limited internally by the brachio-cephalic vein, or rather by the junction of the internal jugular vein with the venous tnink of the upper extremity, and externally by the cla- vicle, or rather by the costo-coracoid or subclavian aponeurosis. If the sub- clavian veins be thus defined, th,ey will be of equal length on both sides; and the left vein, and even the right vein also, will be shorter than the corre- sponding artery. The direction of the subclavian veins differs much from that of the arteries ; we have seen that the subclavian arteries describe a curve over the apex of the lung, with its concavity turned downwards ; the subclavian veins, on the con- trary, proceed directly outwards as far as the first rib, over which they bend, so that they resemble the cord of the arc described by the subclavian artery. We have seen, also, that the inferior thyroid vein, the internal mammary, the vertebral, the supra-scapular, the posterior scapular, the deep cervical, and the left superior intercostal veins, enter not into the subclavian, but either into the superior vena cava or into the brachio-cephalic vein. The right superior inter- costal vein, when it exists, that is to say, when the branches which should form It do not terminate separately in the vena azygos, is the only one of the vems corresponding to the branches of the subclavian artery which opens into the subclavian vein. The external jugular, the anterior jugular, and a smaU branch from the cephahc vem of the arm, also terminate in the subclavian vein. It would there- fore, m some respects, be proper to describe the external and anterior jugulars m connection with the subclavian vein, instead of with the internal jugular. 1 would remark, that the external and anterior jugulars frequently terminate, not in the subclavian vein, but at the point where it ends in the brachio- cephalic vein, in front of the internal jugular. Itelations^ In front of the subclavian vein is situated the clavicle, which is separated from the vem only by the subclavian muscle, so that this vessel may be wounded in fractures of the clavicle : a very dense fibrous sheath binds it down to the subclavius muscle; and itperforates the costo-coracoid orsubclavian XT.rif;j5'?,^'^-^''''^ it, and keeps it open when cut across ; behind the vein is the subclavian artery, from which it is separated, towards the inner L 3 1