740 ANGEIOLOGY. the entrance of the saphenous vein into the femoral; it then formed a curve in the groin, with its concavity directed downwaids, and passed upon the sides of the dorsal surface of the penis ; in another instance, the dorsal artery of the penis was derived from the obturator, or, rather, it had two roots—a very small one, which had the usual origin, and a large one, which arose from the obturator and passed under the symphysis. The right and left dorsal arteries of the penis sometimes anastomose by a transverse branch, like the anterior cerebral arteries. The artery of the corpus cavernosuvi (Ji) is also sometimes the only terminal branch of the internal pudic artery, the dorsal artery of the penis in such cases being derived from some other source. I have seen the cavernous artery arise from the obturator. In all cases it enters the corpus cavernosum by the cor- responding crus, runs along its median septum, and ramifies in its areolar structure. In the female the terminal branches of the internal pudic are arranged as follows :— the inferior or superficial perineal branch is larger than the superior, and might be named the artery of the labia majora, to which it is distributed ; the superior or deep branch, or the artery of the clitoris, runs along in contact with the tuberosity of the ischium, and then with its ascending ramus, and having given off a branch, which runs inwards to the bulb of the vagina, ter- minates in the dorsal artery and cavernous artery of the clitoris, these vessels being very small in consequence of the diminutive size of that organ. Summary of the Distribution of the Internal Iliac Artery. The internal iliac artery, which is so deeply situated as to be inaccessible to the surgeon, sends branches to all the organs contained in the cavity of the pelvis ; to the bony parietes of the pelvis, and the sacral canal; to the muscles which line the pelvis within and cover it without; and to the skin and the external genital organs. Its several branches may be divided into parietal and visceral. The visceral branches are the vesical, middle hsemorrhoidal, vaginal, and uterine arteries, and the deep branch of the internal pudic. The sympathy existing between all the organs to which the above-named vessels are distributed, depends less upon those vessels having a common source than upon the community of origin of the several nerves which those vessels serve to support. The parietal branches are the ilio-lumbar and lateral sacral arteries, which, with the middle sacral, continue the series of intercostal and lumbar arteries into the sacral region, and supply the sacrum, the spinal nerves and their coverings, and also the muscles of the vertebral grooves and the skin of the sacral region ; the glutaeal and the sciatic arteries intended for the muscles of the gluteal region ; the supei-ficial branch of the internal pudic artery, which supplies the perineum; and, lastly, the obturator artery, which forms an arterial circle around the obturator foramen, and supplies the obturator muscles. Several branches of the internal iliac artery establish anastomoses between that vessel and the femoral artery ; these are more especially the sciatic, the internal pudic, the gluteal and the obturator arteries. Arteky of the Lower Extremity, or Crurax. Trunk. The arterial trunk of the lower extremity, or the crural trunk (Chaussier), corresponds with the brachial trunk of the upper extremity. This vessel, which is the direct continuation of the common iliac artery, passes downwards and outwards emerges from the pelvis beneath the crural arch, and thus reaches the anterior region of the thigh. Opposite the junction of the two upper thirds with the lower third of the femur, it traverses the fibrous canal formed for it by the tendon of the great adductor muscle, and thus gains the popliteal space, at the lower part of which it terminates by dividing into two branches.