1163 THE INFERIOR MESENTERIC PLEXUS. All the nerves of the liver are grey, but very strong. The splenic and pancreatic plexuses. The splenic plexus is not so remarkable for the number as for the size of the filaments of which it is composed ; it sur- rounds the splenic artery, furnishes some twigs to the pancreas, and it also gives off the left gastro-epiploic plexus, which is smaller than the right, is situated upon the great curvature of the stomach, and supplies that organ and the great omen- tum The splenic plexus also gives off nervous filaments to the great cul-de- sac of the stomach, and being thus very much diminished in size reaches the hilus of the spleen, within which organ it can be easily traced in man, and still more easily in the larger animals, along the ramifications of the bloodvessels. These nerves are grey and very strong. The numerous filaments which pass to the pancreas, and form a plexus around its arteries, constitute the pan- creatic plexus, which may be regarded as a dependence of the splenic plexus. TTie Superior Mesenteric Plexus. The superior mesenteric plexus, which may be regarded as the lower division of the bifurcation of the epigastric plexus, is the largest of all the abdominal plexuses; it surrounds the superior mesenteric artery, forming an extremely thick plexiform sheath for it; it passes below the pancreas, enters the substance of the mesentery (w) with the artery, and divides, like that vessel, into a great number of secondary plexuses which are distributed to all the parts supplied by the artery, namely to the whole of the small intestine, excepting the duo- denum, and to the right portion of the great intestine. Without entering into tedious and useless details, I shall content myself with a few remarks upon the general distribution of these nerves. The mesenteric nerves are remarkable for their length, their number, and their strength. I am certain that their neurUemmatic sheath is proportionally much thicker than that of other nerves. They are placed at variable distances from the vessels and proceed in a straight line in the substance of the mesen- tery towards the intestine, without giving off any fiJaments : at a short distance from the concave border of the intestine, they either pass directly to the bowel, or else they anastomose at an angle or in an arch ; from the convexity of these anastomotic arches the filaments for the intestine are given off. There is never more than one series of anastomotic nervous arches in the mesentery, whatever may be the number of rows of vascular arches; the single nervous arch always corresponds to the vascular arch nearest to the intestine: the filaments which proceed from it are exceedingly minute.* The nervous filaments penetrate the intestine by its adherent border, run for some time between the serous and muscular coats, perforate the latter, to which they give some twigs, then spread out in the fibrous coat and finally ter- minate in the mucous membrane. The Inferior Mesenteric Plexus. The inferior mesenteric plexus (n) is formed by some twigs from the epigas- tric plexus, or rather from the superior mesenteric plexus, with which it is con- tinuous on the front of the abdominal aorta ; and secondly by some branches from the lumbar sympathetic ganglia, which, as hereafter stated, constitute the lumbo-aorlic plexus. The meshes of the inferior mesenteric plexus are by no means so close as those of the superior mesenteric plexus. The inferior mesenteric plexus, like the artery by which it is supported, sup- phes the left half of the transverse arch of the colon, the descending colon, the sigmoid flexure, and the rectum : of its filaments, those which accompany the left colic arteries are remarkable for their tenuity, their length, and for giving » In one case I found a very remarkable anastomosis. Four filaments proceedine from fnnr opposite pomts converged towards a common centre; but as therwere'^ISout to croT nZ diverged from one anotber so as to ntercept a lovpnee-Rhanprl snLo •iv.T^f .1 =™s«> ">ey regarded as filaments of origin, and the otheVtwo rtfrSing Eenl ° ""^