THE HAIRS. 849 hair of the head is more abundant in the female than in the male, as if the activity of the pilous system was principally confined to the hairy scalp in the former sex ; and, lastly, in its colour, from which certain very impor- tant distinctions among men are established. Every different shade in the colour of the hair may be referred to three principal varieties, the black, the flaxen, and the red. The flaxen hair belongs particularly to the inhabitants of the north, and to persons of lymphatic and sanguineous temperaments ; the black is characteristic of the inhabitants of the south, and of those of a bilious and sanguineous temperament ; the red be- longs' to no particular temperament; and in our ideas of beauty, this coloured hair, which is usually accompanied with a disagreeable odour of the perspir- ation, is regarded as a natural misfortune. The beard and whiskers are peculiar to the male sex; they occupy the lower part of the face, and consequently leave uncovered all those parts which are principally concerned in giving expression to the physiognomy, viz. the ocular, nasal, and frontal regions. We cannot insist too strongly on the connection existing between the developement of the genital organs and that of the beard. The eunuch is almost destitute of that appendage. The great attention rendered necessary by wearing a long beard and long hair has lead to the custom of cutting the hair and shaving. It is remarkable that the most effeminate nations, the orientals for example, are those among whom long beards are in highest estimation. The influence of these different customs upon the health are deservedly subjects of examination for those who study Hygiene. Structure and growth of hairs. The only method of obtaining an accurate knowledge of the structure of hairs is to study their growth. The extremity of the hair which is inserted into the skin is contained in a sort of follicle, very analogous to the dental follicles. This hair-follicle (e. Jig. 230.), which Fig. 230 formative organ of the hair, is embedded in the subcutaneous cellular tissue (g), and is prolonged to the surface of the skin by a sort of membranous canal, which was well described by Bichat. The hair-follicles consist essentially of a pouch or sac, and a papilla. The membranous/lOMcA or sac (cc), called the bursal membrane by Heusinger, forms a sort of cul-de-sac, having a narrow neck, and opening externally by a contracted orifice through which the hair (6) passes ■ ^ without adhering to it at all. Its walls are sufficiently ^v'^^'^^^^^r transparent to &llow the hair contained in its cavity to Magnified " ^® ^^'^ cavity or sac, which, according to M. Dutrochet, is formed merely by the inversion of a por- tion of the skin, be laid open, its internal surface (e) is found to be smooth, not adherent to the hair, but separated from it by a reddish liquid, first pointed out by Heusinger. From the bottom of this sac, i. e. from the part furthest from the orifice through which the hair protrudes, a papilla (a), called the pulp of the hair, arises: this papilla is of a conical form, its base being adherent whilst its apex is tree; it reaches nearly to the orifice of the sac, and even projects beyond it in the disease called plica polonica. Bloodvessels and nerves pass to the bottom ot the hair-folhcle, and are probably distributed upon the papilla. It IS upon the papilla that the hair is formed. At its commencement it resembles a conical horny sheath, which is exactly moulded upon the apex of ttie papilla. On the inner side of this horny cone another is formed, which raises up the preceding one, and so on in succession, the entire hair con- stantly maintaining a conical form. According to the experiments of Heu- singer who plucked out at intervals the hairs from the whiskers of a doe and afterwards killed the animal, so as to observe the successive changes P 2