ANGEIOLOGY. 710 exhausted ; they are continued on each side by branches of the cervical, dorsal, and lumbar spinal arteries, -which run upwards along the posterior roots of the nerves, and having reached the sides of the cord, divide into ascending and descending branches, which anastomose with the neighbouring vessels, form a network around each pair of nerves, and communicate by tortuous transverse branches with the arteries of the opposite side. The anterior spinal artery («, fig. 208.), which is somewhat larger than the posterior, arises from the vertebral near the basilar, sometimes even from the basilar itself, or from the inferior cerebellar, passes almost vertically inwards and downwards, in front of the medulla oblongata, and anastomoses in the same manner as the vertebral with its fellow of the opposite side, so as to con- stitute a median trunk, which is correctly named the anterior median artery of the spine; it is situated beneath the peaTly fibrous band found along the anterior median furrow, and is continued by branches from the cervical, dorsal, and lumbar arteries. The anterior, or median spinal artery, therefore, results from the anastomoses of the two anterior spinal branches of the vertebral. In one case there was no artery on the left side, but the right was twice as large as usual. The vessel is of considerable size, until it has passed below the cervical enlargement of the cord, from which point down nearly to the dorsal enlargement it becomes exceedingly delicate ; a little above the last-named enlargement it suddenly increases in size, again gradually diminishes as it approaches the lower end of the spinal cord, and becoming capillary, is prolonged down to the sacrum, together with the fibrous string in which the spinal cord terminates. During its course, this artery receives lateral branches from the ascending cervical and the vertebral in the neck, and from the spinal branches of the intercostal and lumbar arteries in the back and loins. These branches pene- trate the fibrous canal formed by the dura mater around each of the spinal nerves ; become applied to the nervous ganglia, to which they supply branches ; get intermixed with, and follow the course of, the corresponding nerves; send small twigs backwards to the posterior spinal arteries, and terminate in the anterior spinal trunk, at variable angles, similar to those at which the nerves are attached to the spinal cord. The re-inforcing spinal branches are not nearly so numerous as the nerves. If the condition which I have observed in three subjects be constant, there are three in the cervical region, one or two in the contracted portion of the cord, and one only at the inferior enlargement. This last, which in one case was as large as the ophthalmic artery, reached the cord at a very acute angle ; opposite the median line, it divided into two branches, one ascending and very small, the other descending, of considerable size, and forming the true continuation of the trunk. From the anterior spinal arteries there proceed a great number of twigs, which pass backwards into the anterior median furrow, and from thence into the substance of each half of the corresponding portion of the cord ; also some lateral branches, which ramify on the sides of the cord in the pia mater. The inferior and posterior cerebellar arteries. These (A h) arise from the outer side of the vertebral, and sometimes from the basilar; they are of con- siderable size, and often differ in this respect on the two sides. Each of them soon turns round the medulla oblongata, pursuing a tortuous course, passes between the filaments of origin of the hypoglossal nerve, runs in front of the roots of the pneumogastric and glosso-pharyngeal nerves, crosses the restiform body, and reaches the back of the medulla oblongata on one side of the opening of the fourth ventricle ; it then passes backwards, between the inferior vermi- form process and lateral lobe of the cerebellum, and divides into two branches — one internal, which continues along the furrow between the vermiform pro- cess and lateral lobe, supplies the former, and turns upwards into the notch m the posterior margin of the cerebellum ; the other branch is external, and passes outwards upon the lower surface of the cerebeUum, and divides into a great