873 THE CHOROID COAT. puncturing any part of the superficial layer of the cornea. It is useless to in- troduce tlie tube deeper, for the lymphatic network is entirely superficial. Uses. The transparent cornea is the first medium through which the rays of light have to pass ; in consequence of its density and its convexity, it re- fracts the rays of light and causes them to converge. The density of the cornea is the same in different persons ; but its convexity is subject to variations, upon which depend in a great measure the states of myopia (short sight), presbyopia (long sight), and natural vision. The choroid (indicated by the thick black line, c,Jig. 241.), so called from its extreme vascularity *, is the second membrane of the eye, proceeding from without inwards; it is a vascular membrane, covered with a thick layer of pigment: it exactly lines the sclerotic, and terminates like it at the circum- ference of the cornea. Its extenial surface {c,figs. 242. 244.) adheres to the sclerotic by means of the ciliary vessels and nerves, and by a thin and very delicate cellular tissue, w hich is easily lacerated, and when raised appears like a spider's web. f This surface, when magnified, has a flocculent appearance. Its internal surface is in relation with but does not adhere to the retina {r,fig. 241.), by which it is lined nearly throughout its whole extent. Both surfaces of the choroid are covered with a pigment which resembles the pigment of the skin of negroes ; this pigment is much more abundant on the internal than on the external surface, and less so behind than in front, where it forms a thick layer in the form of a zone surrounding the corona ciliaris. Upon both surfaces are found innumerable, longitudinal, and contorted lines, which correspond to the vessels of the choroid. In a great number of animals —in the ox, for example, the pigment on the internal surface of the choroid at the back of the eye is replaced by a brilliant metallic-looking substance, called the tapetum. When deprived of its pigment, the internal surface of the choroid presents a smooth aspect, and is not floccu- lent like the external surface. It is of a greyish white colour; and anteriorly, where it is covered by a thick layer of pigment, it becomes white and shining when the pigment is removed. Behind, the choroid is pierced by a circular opening for the passage of the optic nerve ; in front, it terminates in the ciliary circle and ciliary processes, which must be regarded as appendages to it. ^^^^^^^^^P^^ liary processes (e, fig. 241.); by its outer or larger border, which is distinguished from the choroid by a slight ridge, it receives the ciliary nerves {a a, fig. 242.), which bifurcate, and appear to anastomose with * Choroid is synonymous with vascular. t [ A sfTous cavity is said Ijy sonic to exist between tlie sclerotic and choroid; the liuiiiR mcuibr;uic ol this supposed cavity is named the arachnoid incnibraiie of the eye] The Choroid Coat, and the Ciliary Circle and Processes, Tlie ciliary circle. The ciliary circle, ring, or ligament (n,fig. 241.; b,figs. 242. 244.), is a cir- cular zone, from a line to a line and a half in breadth, of a greyish colour, and soft con- sistence, which bounds the choroid coat (c c) in front. It is of considerable thickness. Its external surface corresponds to the sclerotic, to which it is slightly adherent. Its internal surface corresponds to the ci-