992 NEUROLOGY. the pars pellucida, and -which is supported by a fibrous layer derived from the pia mater. In front, the third ventricle presents the anterior pillars (k,Jig. 280.; below k, and behind c,fig. 282.) of the fornix, in front of which is situated a white, cylindrical cord (c), directed transversely, and visible only in its middle por- tion ; this is the anterior comviissure, beneath which the ventricle extends as far as opposite the posterior border of the optic commissure. Behind the an- terior pillars of the fornix, and somewhat above the anterior commissure, are the two openings by which the third ventricle communicates with the lateral ventricles (^foramen Monroi) ; these openings (of which one is seen between l> and k. Jig. 282.) are of an oval shape, are sometimes of unequal size, and be- come much enlarged in chronic effusion into the ventricles. The two divisions of the anterior extremity of the velum interpositum pass through these openings to become continuous (at qq,fig. 278.) with the choroid plexuses. Haller erro- neously regarded them as accidental; an opinion that was founded upon se- veral pathological observations, from which it appeared that the lateral ven- tricles were distended with a considerable quantity of fluid whilst the third ventricle remained empty. At the back part of the third ventricle is seen the posterior commissure (x, figs. 280. 282.), a transverse cylindrical cord, situated in front of the tubercula quadrigemina, and below the commissure of the pineal gland, with which it is continuous. The posterior commissure is smaller than the anterior; it may be regarded as a white commissure of the optic thalami, for its extremities are lost in their interior. It forms a sort of bridge above the anterior orifice of the aqueduct of Sylvius. Tlie Aqueduct of Sylvius. The aqueduct of Sylvius, or aqueduct of the corpora quadrigemina, which was described by both Galen and Vesalius, and by the latter quite as perfectly as by the anatomist after whom it is named, is a canal which establishes a com- munication between the third and fourth ventricles (/ v, fig. 282.)—iter a tertio ad quartum ventriculum ; it passes through the isthmus of the encephalon, in the median line, below the tubercula quadrigemina (/<?). It is directed obliquely downwards and backwards. Its walls are dense and lined by the membrane of the ventricles. This canal presents both on its upper and its lower wall a longitudinal groove or median furrow, bounded by two small longitudinal cords. The median furrow on the lower wall is continuous with the longitudinal groove of the calamus scriptorius. The brothers Wenzel have given a minute description of these two furrows, and they have also noticed two lateral furrows. It was stated by Vieussens, that the opening of the aqueduct into the fourth ventricle was provided with a valve. But his statement is at variance with the results of observation. , , . j It follows, therefore, from the preceding description, that the third ventncle has four openings : two of which communicate with the lateral ventricles, the third opens into the fourth ventricle, and the fourth (between b and x, 280.) leads into the infundibulum. The third ventricle, moreover, has three commissures : one composed ot grey matter, viz, the commissura mollis, or commissure of the optic thalami, the other two of white substance, one being anterior and^the other posterior. The Conarium, or Pineal Gland. The conarium, pineal gland, or pineal body, is a small greyish body Cp,fi9s. 280 282.), situated in the median plane, behind the posterior commissure ot the third ventricle, and between the nates, upon which it rests. ,. , It is retained in this situation by two small meduUaiy cords, winch are called its peduncles, and by the velum interpositum below which it is p aced and by which it is almost completely mvested as with a closely adherent