964 NEUROLOGY, other at various angles, and become again united into new combinations so tliat several anatomists have admitted the existence of a true decussation in this middle portion of the cerebellum. The middle lobe also has its medullary centre, which connects the lateral meduUary centre in such a manner, that, by a successful section, a sort of cerebellar centrum ovale is obtained, analogous to the centrum ovale of Vieussens in the cerebrum. Examination of the Cerebellum by means of a Stream of Water, and Dissection of the hardened Cerebellum. A stream of water directed upon vertical sections of the cerebellum decom- poses the white nucleus of each lateral lobe into a great number of extremely thin leaves, which constitute the different laminas or lamellae of the cere- bellum. All these lamin£E and lamellse terminate in the central nucleus of the corresponding lobe. Each lamella is fan-shaped, its adherent border being very narrow, concave, and applied to the central nucleus, with which it is evidently continuous, whilst its convex margin corresponds to the surface of the cerebellum. The arrangement of these lamellEB is very beautiful and curious ; some of them ascend to form the segments, laminsE, and lamellse of the upper surface of the cerebellum; others descend to form the corresponding parts of the lower surface, and the intermediate ones pass horizontally to the circumference, and are disposed in a similar manner. Opposite each point of subdivision there seems to be an enlargement of the white substance, but this depends not upon an actual increase of that substance, but upon the diver- gence of the lamellae. The structure of the cerebellum therefore, considered generally, is lami- nated. From the central white nucleus proceed innumerable laminae, which though in juxtaposition, are never blended together, and which form groups, that are themselves subdivided again and again, like the branches of a tree, the ultimate lamella always containing at least two leaflets. Can anatomy teach us any thing beyond this laminated arrangement? In each lamella certain radiated striae are seen ; and it may be asked, whether these prove the existence of a linear or fibrous structure ? It is certainly true that the la- mellae may be divided in the direction of these strise, but it is far from being evident that they consist of linear fibres. In the central nucleus, the laminae, being more firmly pressed together, are separated by the stream of water with greater difficulty than the laminae near the surface : the corpora dentata of the cerebellum are peculiarly firm. The stream of water insinuates itself into these bodies opposite their internal ex- tremity, which appears to be naturally open, and divides them into two halves, a superior and an inferior. It is then seen that the dentated appearance of their section results from the reduplication of the dense yellowish layer in which they are inclosed; also that the white substance penetrates into the interior of these bodies at their internal surface, accompanied by a great num- ber of vessels ; and that this white substance is arranged in lamellaj, which terminate at three different points of the yellowish layer, so that each of the corpora dentata resembles a small cerebellum. Examination of the hardened cerebellum. The examination of the cere- bellum, when hardened by alcohol, or by boiling in oil, or salt and water, or by maceration in a solution of salt and bichloride of mercury, of the strength re- commended by Rolando, confirms all the results which have been obtained by the preceding method of investigation. These modes of preparation, moreover, enable us to examine more completely than in any other way the relations of the central nuclei of the lobes to the peduncles of the cerebellum. It is seen most distinctly that these peduncles