842 NEUftOLOGY. were, into the epidermis, which furnishes a kind of sheath for each of them. This arrangement is exceedingly distinct in the skin upon the lower surface of the bear's foot. I have alluded to this structure in my Anatomic Pathologique (" Diseases of the Lymphatics," liv. ii.). M. Breschet has recently observed it in the skin of the whale, in which animal the epidermis forms a complete tube for each of the papilla;. These sheaths, or tubes, are united by a glutinous matter, and may be separated, at least in the bear, with the greatest facility. The internal surface of the epidermis is intimately adherent to the external surface of the dermis ; but this adhesion may be destroyed in the living subject by the application of a blister, and after death by maceration. If in a piece of macerated skin the epidermis be carefully separated from the true skin, it will be seen that the adhesion of one to the other is in part effected by a number of very delicate transparent filaments, which may be stretched to the extent of several lines without breaking. On examining the internal surface of the epidermis under water, these filaments are seen floated out. What then is their nature ? Are we to regard them with Cruickshank as prolongations of the epidermis which dip into the areolae of the true skin ? or, with Beclard, as strings of mucus formed by the stretching out of the viscid mucous matter situated between the dermis and the epidermis ? or, on the other hand, are they canals ? and if so. Are they to be regarded as exhalant vessels, as Kaaw Boerhaave, and W. Hunter believed ? are they exhalant and absorbent vessels too, as Chaussier and Bichat imagined ? or are they not rather special vessels, the vasa sudoris of Bidloo, and the vasa sudatoria of Eichom, the latter of whom attributed to them both an exhalant and an absorbent function ? These questions are not yet satisfactorily solved. The very great activity, both of exhalation and absorption by the skin, necessarily supposes the existence of some special apparatus for these processes. Steno, Malpighi, and others, admitted the existence of certain sudoriferous glands, situated in the adipose ceUular tissue, and consisting of tubes which opened on the exterior by means of an orifice provided with a valve. (Vide Holler, t. V. lib. xii. p. 42.) This description, when somewhat modified, agrees with the statements re- cently made by M. Breschet, who has described sudoriferous glands (gg, Jigs. 227, 228.) having a saccular form, and situated in the substance of the dermis. A spiral canal* {h,fig. 227.) proceeding from* each of these sacs, traverses the dermis and epidermis, and after having made several turns, opens upon the external surface of the skin (at i).t Besides these filaments the deep surface of the epidermis presents certain irregularities, which may be felt by the finger, and which under the microscope appear pointed like thorns; they seem to be pro- longations of the epidermis, but I have not been able to determine their precise nature. The external surface of the epidermis presents corresponding folds and furrows to those already described upon the free surface of the skin. It also has numerous orifices or pores, visible to the naked eye on the palms of the hands and soles of the feet, and very distinctly seen by the aid of a lens. Along each of the ridges formed by the rows of papillae are found a series of orifices, arranged in a re- Fig. 227 Section of skin of tlie finger, magnified 14 times. • Fontana had previously spoken of serpentine vessels, which he had seen beneath the epi- dermis by means of the microscope. ,, „ 1 -n 1 ■ -a J Tir „jt mo„ liosppn hpstbv t [The sudoriferous glands, discovered by Breschet, Purkmje, and We"dt, may be s^^^^ examining under the microscope a thiu perpendicular section of a piece of skm taken Irom inc