ANGEIOLOGY. 700 that leads to those cases m -(vhich the lachrymal artery arises from the middle meningeal. It often gives off a long ciliary artery, and always some twigs to the neurilemma of the optic nerve, and muscular branches to the levator pal- pebraj superioris and the superior rectus ; lastly, it furnishes a muscular branch, the malar, which perforates the malar bone, and anastomoses in the temporal fossa with the anterior deep temporal artery, and upon the malar bone itself with the transversalis faciei. The central, artery of the retina (arteria centralis retinm; i), quite distinct from the twigs supplied to the neurilemma of the optic nerve, is an extremely delicate vessel; it arises either from the ophthalmic, or from one of the ciliary arteries, penetrates obliquely into the substance of the nerve, runs along its centre from behind forwards, enters into the globe of the eye, and expands in diverging ramifications, which are applied to the internal sui'face of the retina, and ac- company it as far as the ciliary processes. A branch very distinct from those just mentioned traverses the vitreous body from behind forwards, in the axis of the eye, and reaches the capsule of the crystalline lens, after having furnished some extremely fine twigs to the hyaloid membrane. Branches arising above the optic nerve. The supra-orbital or superciliary artery (d) arises from the ophthalmic as that vessel is crossing the optic nerve; it is sometimes given off from the lachrymal. It is very variable in size, and appears in certain cases to be partially replaced by the orbital branch of the temporal, or by the frontal branch of the ophthalmic. It passes horizontally between the periosteum of the roof of the orbit and the levator palpebrae su- perioris, accompanied by the frontal nerve; it escapes from the orbit at the superciliary notch, is reflected over it as over a puUey, ascends vertically, and divides into two branches, one of which passes upwards between the skin and the orbicularis and occipito-frontalis muscles, and the other is situated between the muscles and the periosteum, and ramifies in that membrane. The sub- cutaneous branch often divides into an internal and an external twig. It is also said constantly to furnish a branch to the diploe of the frontal bone, as it is passing through the superciliary notch. It appears to me that this branch is often wanting. The ciliary arteries may be divided into the posterior or short, the middle or long, and the anterior. The posterior ciliary arteries (r) distributed to the choroid coat and the ciliary processes (arteres uveales, Chams.') are irregular in number, which is stated to be thirty or even forty; they arise from two trunks, one inferior which is given off from the ophthalmic artery on the outer side of the optic nerve; the other is superior and arises above that nerve. Not unfrequently the lachrymal artery gives off the inferior long ciliary trunk. They run in a very tortuous course along the optic nerve, and having reached the ball of the eye, twist spirally and immediately expand into a tuft of tortuous ramusculi which surround the optic nerve, perforate the sclerotic coat around the entrance of the nerve, and then ramify, as will be elsewhere stated, in the choroid coat and ciliary processes. . . ^ i.- , j- The middle or long ciliary arteries (arteres iriennes, Chauss.), which are dis- tributed to the iris, are two in number, an internal and an external; they per- forate the sclerotic at some distance from the optic nerve, and pass between the sclerotic and the choroid membrane on the sides of the eyeball. Having reached the ciliary ring, each of them divides into two branches which anas- tomose together, and form the great vascular circle of the ins. Numerous ra- diatin- branches proceed from all pomts of the inner border of this circle towards the free margin of the iris, where they subdivide and anastomose to form the lesser vascular circle of that membrane. The anterior ciliary arteries are irregular in number, and are derived trom the muscular branches, and sometimes from the lachrymal and jpf'^-oj^i ^1 • they give some branches to the conjunctiva, penetrate the sclerotic at a short distance from the cornea, and terminate in the great circle of the ins.