765 THE VEINS OF THE HEART. left auricle (n), after having perforated the pericardium, -within the cavity of which their course is exceedingly short. Itelatio?is. In the substance of the lungs, the branclies of the veins are behind, those of the arteries are in front, and the bronchia are in the middle. The laro-er branches of these three kinds of vessels cross each other at acute angles, bur their extreme ramifications are parallel. At the root of the lung, the veins are in front, the artery is in the middle, and the bronchus behind. In the pericardium, the anterior surface of the veins is invested by the serous layer of the pericardium. The right pulmonary veins are in relation in front with the vena cava superior, -which crosses them at right angles: the left pulmonary veins are in relation with the left pulmonary artery. It is generally said that the pulmonary artery is larger than the pulmonary veins; but it has appeared to me that the pulmonary veins are no exception to the general rule, that the veins are larger than their corresponding arteries. Moreover, although there are two pulmonary venous trunks for each lung, by a remarkable exception, only a single vein accompanies each branch of the artery. The pulmonary veins have no valves, even at their openings into the auricle; they carry red blood like the arteries, and hence the name arterice venoscE, by which they were designated by the ancients. Distinctly circular muscular fibres can be traced upon the portion of the pulmonary veins situated within the pericardium. The serous layer only partially invests these veins ; and it is doubtful whether the fibrous layer is prolonged upon them at all. THE VEINS OF THE HEART. The great coronary or cardiac vein. — The small cardiac veins. The cardiac veins are divided into the great coronary vein and the small coronary veins of the heart. The great coronary vein commences near the apex of the heart, at the lower part of the anterior inter-ventricular furrow, up which it runs (e, fig. 191.), gradually increasing in size; having arrived at the base of the ventricle, it turns to the left, so as to leave the anterior coronary artery, and, changing its direction, it runs along the left auriculo-ventricular furrow, becoming larger as it proceeds, and at length opens {e,fig. 192.) into the posterior and inferior part of the right auricle, near the inter-auricular septum. The very great size of that portion of the vein which embraces the left auri- culo-ventricular furrow has obtained for it the name of the coronary venous sinus. It almost always presents a very remarkable dilatation, or ampulla, before it enters the auricle. During its course, it receives a great number of branches. Thus its vertical or ascending portion receives both superficial and deep veins, which emerge from the adjacent parts of the ventricles and their inter- vening septum. Its circular portion receives some small descending or auricular branches from the left auricle, and also larger ascending or ventricular branches, which enter it at right angles:'amongst the latter, we find the vein of the left border of the heart, which commences near the apex of the left ven- tricle, runs backwards, crossing obliquely over the corresponding artery, and opens, almost at a right angle, into the great coronary vein, behind the left border of the heart; secondly, two or three branches from the posterior surface of the left ventricle; and, lastly, a posterior inter-ventricular branch, which traverses the posterior inter-ventricular furrow, and terminates in the ampulla at the openmg of the coronary vein into the right auricle. I have seen this branch termmate at once in the auricle by a distinct opening, covered or pro- tected by the valve of the coronary vein. A small vein which runs along the posterior half of the right auriculo-ventricular furrow opens directly into the right auricle, near the ampulla of the great coronary vein: I do not know whether this small vein is constant. The great coronary vein has no valves