656 ANGEIOLOGY. and left sides of the heart communicate freely during the whole period of intra-uterine existence. The inter-auricular septum does not exist, or at least only in a rudimentary state during the earlier months of foetal life. Is there any period of fojtal existence during -which the inter-ventricular septum is entirely wanting? and does the developement of the human heart, ■which -would then resemble the heart of reptiles, coincide -with the general law by which the organs of man, before acquiring their perfect form, pass successively through the several conditions represented by the corresponding organs in the lower animals ? The observations of Meckel, which extend as far back as the fourth week, prove that the inter-ventricular septum always exists at that period, but that it is imperfect at the upper part, where it is per- forated or notched.* Cases of malformation, in which the septum of the ventricles is absent, cannot be quoted in support of the opinion, that the septum is wanting in the early periods of life ; for it would be necessary to prove that such a malform- ation is an arrest of developement. The opening between the two auricles becomes contracted, and forms the foramen ovale (or foramen of Botal), which is found at the posterior and in- ferior part of the septum. The valve of Eustachius is sufficiently broad to separate the orifice of the vena cava inferior from the cavity of the right auricle, so that the blood of that vein is carried directly into the left am-icle. Towards the eud of the third month, the valve of the foramen ovale, which afterwards forms the bottom of the fossa ovalis, begins to appear; it arises from the posterior half of the opening of the vena cava inferior. About the same period the Eustachian valve decreases in size, and from this time the de- velopement of these two valves proceeds inversely, that is to say, the Eustachian valve diminishes, whilst that of the foramen ovale becomes larger. In con- sequence of this change, the v6na cava inferior no longer opens into the left auricle, but into the right. At the fifth month the foramen ovale is almost entirely closed by the valve which grows from below upwards, and from behind forwards; at a later period it projects into the left auricle, beyond the margin of the foramen ovale, so that there is an oblique passage from one auricle to the other. After birth, adhesion takes place between these parts ; but even when this does not occur, the obliquity of the passage is such, that the want of adhesion does not necessarily allow of any admixture of the blood of the two aui-icles. Function. The heart is the agent by which the blood is impelled through the vessels. The venous blood is poured into the auricles, which then contract; part of the blood flows back into the veins, but the greater portion passes into the ven- tricles, which contract in their turn. The auriculo-ventricular valves meet, and prevent the reflux of the blood into the auricles, and it is therefore pro- pelled into the arteries. The sigmoid valves at first lie in contact with the * [The researches of modern embryologists have shown that the heart, in its simplest con- dition consists of a straight tube, whiuli is placed vertically in the body, receives the veins at its inltrior extremity, and gives off the arteries from its superior extremity. The lower or venous end soon turns upwards, so that the tube becomes bent into a looj), which for a time projects through a cleft on tlie anterior aspect of the body. The tube then becomes divided into an auricular and a ventricular portion, and into a bulbus arteriosus, all enclosed in a peri- cardium • and in this state the heart of the human foetus corresponds with the permanent con- dition of'this organ in fishes. Each of these three portions becomes again subdivided; the auricular portion by a descending septum into tlie two auricles, tlie ventricular by an ascending septum into the two ventricles, and the bulbus arteriosus into the norta and pulmonary artery. For a certain period the right and left auricles, and the right and left ventricles, comnui- uicate with each other. When the septum between the ventricles is yet imperfect (.-i condition which is permanent in reptiles generally), tlie comrnon ventricular cavity gives origin to both the aorta and the pulmonary artery. Before the middle of foetal life, this ^ptum is completed, and then the two vessels arise each separately from its proper ventricle. The septum between theaurides remains imperfect until after birth, when the loraineu ovale at length bccomcsclosed.J