1083 THE GREAT SCIATIC NERVE. Fig.W3. (.^ deep groove between that process and the margin of the cotyloid cavity. At its exit from the pelvis, it is a flat rlbhon-shaped nerve, six lines in breadth, but it soon becomes rounded, runs vertically down- wards along the back of the thigh, sloping, however, a little outwards; having arrived about three or four fingers' breadth above the knee-joint, it divides into two branches, which are called the external popliteal sciatic or the peroneal nerve (i), and the internal popliteal sciatic or tibial nerve (A). The sciatic nerve sometimes divides at its exit from the pelvis, bat it may do so at any other point between that and the popliteal space. This premature division is of no importance; in fact it always exists; for when there is apparently only one trunk, the two branches of the bifurcation are perfectly distinct through the whole length of the thigh, and are merely in contact with each other.* Relations. Behind, the great sciatic nerve is covered by the glutseus maximus, and then by the long head of the biceps and the semi-tendinosus; lower down it occupies the cellular interval between these two last- named muscles, and when they separate from each other to form the borders of the popliteal space, it be- comes sub-aponeurotic. In front, it corresponds to the gemelli and obturator internus, by which it is separated from the os coxse, to the quadratus femoris anU to the adductor magnus. During its course, it is surrounded by a large quantity of adipose cellular tissue, but has no accompanying vessel, t . Collateral branches of the great sciatic. The great sciatic nerve gives off in the thigh five muscular and three articular branches; they sometimes arise sepa- rately, sometimes by a common trunk. They are the following: — The nerve for the long head of the biceps, which di- vides into two ascending branches for the origin of that muscle from the ischium, and deccending branches, which run for a long time in front of the muscle and then enter it by a series of filaments. The nerve for the semi-tendinosus, which runs upon the anterior surface of the muscle, and does not enter it, until it reaches the lower third of the thigh. The nerves for the semi-membranosxis are two in num- ber ; they almost always anastomose and enter the in- ternal surface of the muscle at two different points. ' A nerve for the adductor magnus, which runs for- wards and then inwards, and diters near the inner border of the muscle. We have seen that the adductor » When the great sciatic nerve divides within the pelvis, the upper division perforates the pyriformis, while the lower emerges from below that muscle, t In three instances I have found the great sciatic accompanied by a large vein, which was continuous with the popliteal vein, and perforated the upper part of the adductor magnus, like the profunda artery. In two of these cases the sciatic nerve divided at its exit from the pelvis. I did not note the arrangement of the nerve in the third case. It was a remarkable circum- stance that there was another popliteal vein accompanying the artery ; in one of the cases the vein was in front instead of behind the artery.