POSTERIOR BRANCH OF SECOND CERVICAL NERVE. 1035 the anterior branches, emanate from the plexiform cords which form the con- Jnualn of the corr'esponding spinal ganglm, -e drrected^ immediately pass through the foramma which I may regard posterior inler- ^Td fla^na* These branches subdivide into several twigs, which ei ttS ceUular intervals between the long muscles of the back, and " "the muscles of the integuments J!^« Drevails among such of these nerves as are distributed to the same kinds ot orgl^andthfir differences depend on pecuUarities in the parts to which they We^'shaU now study in succession the posterior branches of the cervical, dorsal, and lumbar spinal nerves. The Posterior Branches of the Cervical Nerves. Common Characters. All the posterior branches of the cervical nerves (i to o', fig. 300.) pass transversely inwards between the complexus and the semi-spinahs colli, having first given off some very small twigs: having reached the sides of the pos- terior cervical ligament, they perforate the aponeurotic attachments of the trapezius from before backwards, lie close beneath the skin, and are directed transversely outwards. The course of these branches therefore is at first in- wards, and then outwards. The posterior branch of the first cervical nerve is the only one which presents any exception to these general characters. Proper Characters. The Posterior Branch of the First Cervical Nerve. The posterior branch of the first cervical or sub-occipital nerve, larger than the anterior branch, escapes between the occipital bone and the posterior arch of the atlas, on the inner side of the vertebral artery with which it is in contact, below the rectus capitis posticus major, and in the area of the equi- lateral triangle formed by that with the two oblique muscles ; in this situation (i, fig. 300.) it is concealed by a large quantity of fatty tissue which renders it rather difficult of dissection; and it immediately divides into several branches, which may be arranged into the internal, which go to the great and small recti muscles; external, which supply the great and small oblique muscles; and inferior or anastomotic, which, by uniting with the second cervical nerve, assist Ln the formation of the posterior cervical plexus. The branch to the rectus minor passes at first between the rectus major and the complexus and then reaches the rectus minor. The principal branch for the inferior oblique, before ramifying in that muscle, forms an arch or loop, which has been well described by Bichat. It follows, therefore, that both of the recti and both of the oblique muscles are supplied by the first cervical nerve, which gives no filament to the com- plexus f, and none to the skin. The Posterior Branch of the Second Cervical Nerve. This is the largest of all the posterior branches of the cervical nerves, and is three or four times larger than the anterior branch of the same nerve; it emerges (g, fig. 300.) ft-om the spine between the posterior arch of the atlas and the corresponding lamina of the axis, in the same line as the posterior branch of the first nerve, immediately below the lower border of the obllquus major, and is reflected upwards between the hairy scalp on the one hand, and the occipitalis muscle and epicranial aponeurosis on the other ; it passes hori- * Vide Osteology (vertebral column in general). These foramina are situated between the tranverse processes, and in the dorsal region are completed on the outside by the superior costo- transverse ligament. + [Asch saw and has described a twig {in, Jfc.SOO.) proceeding from the posterior branch of the first cervical nerve to the complexus muscle ; .Swan and Arnold also observed it.]