996 NEUROLOGY. which is oblong from before backwards, commences about six lines from the anterior extremity of the lateral ventricle : it is covered by the choroid plexus (p) and the fornix (/c): the corresponding anterior pillar of the fornix turns round its anterior extreuuty, and the interval between the pillar and the thalamus forms the opening of communication between the third and the cor- responding lateral ventricle. The brownish white colour {couleur cafe an lail) of the optic thalamus distinguishes it from the corpus striatum, which lies along Its outer side; the lamina cornea and the taenia semicircularis, marking the limits between these two bodies. The lamina cornea is a thick, semitransparent band, of a horny aspect, which was compared by Tarin to a plate of horn, and which appears to be nothing more than a thickened portion of the lining membrane of the ventricle. Beneath and protected by it is found the vein of the corpus striatum, which receives the venous branches already described upon the surface of that body. Beneath the vein is seen a small, white, linear baud (n), to which Willis first directed attention as the limbus posterior, and which is now called the tcenia semicircularis. I would observe that the lamina cornea and the tajnia semicircularis are two very distinct structures, which most anatomists have erroneously confounded. More deeply, the limits between the corpus striatum and optic thalamus are marked by a white layer, described by Vieussens as the geminum centrum semi- circulure, or double semicircular centre. The lateral portion of the fornix and the choroid plexus (see fig. 278.) must also be regarded as entering into the formation of the floor of the lateral ven- tricle. This lateral portion of the fornix resembles a band applied upon the optic thalamus, but separated from it by a fissure through which the choroid plexus becomes continuous with the velum interpositum * : the choroid plexus runs along the free edge of this band, and is sometimes turned up on to its upper surface. The internal wall or septum of the lateral ventricles is much deeper in front, where it is formed by the septum lucidum, than behind, where it consists of a small vertical portion of the fornix, with which it terminates. We ought also to regard as forming a part of the septum of-the lateral ventricles, a prolonga- tion on each side of the grey matter of the third ventricle, which passes round the corresponding anterior pillar of the fornix, and upon the lower part of the septum lucidum. The Inferior or Reflected Portion of the Lateral Ventricle. Dissection. As the reflected portion or descending cornu belongs to the base of the brain, it is well to place the brain upon its convex surface, and then proceed to open it. This cornu may also be reached from the great transverse fissure, by first removing the pia mater which enters there, and then partially dividing the lower wall of the cornu from the fissure of Sylvius backwards, and turning back the lower wall on itself. The descending cornu (h, fig. 278.) of the lateral ventricle has two walls, a superior and an inferior. The superior wall (b, fig. 281.) is concave, and, being moulded upon the pes hippocampi or coriiu ammonis (m), which forms the inferior wall, is named the sheath of the pes hippocampi. Upon the inferior wall are found the pes hippocampi or cornu ammonis, the corpus fimbriatum, the fascia dentata, the great cerebral fissure, and the reflected portion of the choroid plexus. The cornu ammonis or ram's horn, pes hippocampi % or foot oj the sea norst, » TA ^nmmrisnn nf fies 278. and 270. win facilitate the coinprehenBion of this statement; iii the laUeS the forn-^VrellL-cted backwards, and the continuity of the choroid plexus (;.) "f[ThVt^r;:^LyX",^,■ is generally appned to the anterior part only of this structure, the whole being usually called hippocampus major.]