THE FORNIX AND CORPUS FIMBRIATUM. 987 distinct lamellae (t t,fig. 278.), between which, in front, a cavity is inclosed, containing a few drops of a serous fluid ; this small cavity is called the ventricle oftlie septum, the first ventricle (Wenzel), the fifth ventricle (Cuvier), and the sinus of tJte median septum (Chauss.); it is not very unfrequently the seat of dropsical effusion. I have found it filled with blood in several subjects after death from apoplexy. As to whether this ventricle of the septum communicates with the other ventricles, opinions are divided. Tarin describes a small fissure opening between the anterior pillars of the fornix, but the majority of anatomists have not been able to demonstrate it. It appears to me that the absence of all com- munication is a well ascertained fact. Each of these lamellas of the septum lucidum consists of a medullary layer, covered on the outside by the membrane of the corresponding lateral ventricle, and on the inside by the membrane of the fifth ventricle. The existence of this last mentioned membrane is proved by the smooth appearance of the ventricle, and it may be demonstrated by removing, in succession, layers from the outer surface of the lamella. The grey matter of the third ventricle is prolonged upon the external surface of each lamella of the septum. TTie Fornix and Corpus Fimbriatum. The fornix (la voute a trois piliers; k, r r, fig. 278.) is a medullary arch, situated (Jt,fig. 282.) beneath the corpus callosum, with which it is continuous Fig. 278. behmd, but which it leaves m front, and then passes perpendicularly downwards, describing a curve within the curvature of the corpus callosum. The inter- val between the anterior part of the fornix and the corpus callosum IS occupied by the septum lucidum. To the term fornix, used by the older writers, the epithet o trois piliers has been improperly added by Winslow inasmuch as it expresses a mere appearance; for there are in reality four pillars, the two anterior of which are closely approximated to each other whilst the two posterior are widelv anart '