1005 GALL AND SPURZHEIM'S VIEWS OF THE BRAIN. Gall and Spurzheim's Views of the Structure of the Brain. GaU and Spurzheim commence by stating, 1. That as the brain consists of several departments, the functions of which are totally different, there are several primitive fasciculi, which by their developement assist m the formation of that oro-an 2 That these fasciculi are composed of medullary fabres arising successively from the grey matter, which, with Vicq d'Azyr, they regard as the matrix or generator of the white substance. 3. That there existJin the brain a formative system of fibres, or a formative apparatus, and systems of unitin"' fibres, called commissures. In the first or formative system, Gall describes four'primitive fasciculi; namely, the anterior pyramids, the posterior pyramids, the olivary fasciculi, the longitudinal fasciculi, which assist in forming the fourth ventricle, and some others which are yet imperfectly under- stood.* . .,,„.,., Formative system of fibres. The anterior pyramidal fasciculi decussate at their origin ; but the other fasciculi arise on the same side as the hemisphere to which they belong. The anterior pyramidal fasciculi (b',figs. 273, 274.) are reinforced as they pass through the pons Varolii (m), which is therefore, according to Gall's view, a ganglion, named by him the ganglion of the anterior pyramidal fasciculi; these pyramidal fasciculi constitute the cerebral peduncles (a-, fig. 283.), and diverge y'), so as to enter the inferior, anterior, and external (J. and m,fig. 284.) convolutions of the anterior and middle lobes. Gall, in his beautiful plate No. V., shows the expansion of the fibres of the peduncles, their distribution, their unequal lengths, and the manner in which their expanded extremities are covered with grey matter to form the convo- lutions. It still remains to determine how the superior convolutions and those of the posterior lobe are formed: the following are the statements of Gall on this point: — The olivary bodies of the medulla oblongata are nothing more than ganglia ■from each of which a very strong bundle, the olivary fasciculus ( see p. 943.), emerges, and ascending behind the pons, where it is considerably reinforced, passes through the grey matter which lies upon the white fibres of the cerebral peduncle, where it again receives some additional fibres; this grey matter constitutes a rather firm ganglion on each side; these are the optic thalami, which, according to Gall, do not assist in the formation of the optic nerves and bear no proportion to them in size. The olivary fasciculi, which are divided into very delicate filaments in traversing the optic thalamus, are again collected together as they emerge from its upper border. They then pass through a thick mass of grey matter, the corpus striatum, half of which projects into the ventricular cavity, whilst the other half is surrounded by the convolutions of the island of Reil. The radiated fasciculi (_k, fig. 28^.) are again reinforced in traversing the corpus striatum, which is regarded by Gall as another ganglion, and are then sufiicient to form all the posterior convolutions, and also those which are situated along the upper border of each hemisphere, in the median line (h h h). It therefore follows, according to GaU, that the convolutions are nothing more than the perfecting of all the preceding structures, which should be re- garded as preparatory systems of fibres destined to form a whole. Uniting system of fibres or commissures. Even the oldest anatomists re- garded the corpus callosum as the connecting medium between the two hemi- spheres ; Vicq d'Azyr, who described several other commissures besides the •It will be observed that Gall's fundamental statements are hypothetical: that the brain is developed from certain primitive fasciculi, that there is a successive increase of these fasciculi from below upwards, and that the grey substance is the matrix of the white, are so many suD- positions. Of the primitive fasciculi, the anterior pyrami<ls alone arc well defined ■ tile in- accuracy in the representation of the posterior pyramids disfigures his sixth plate.