963 SECTIONS OF THE CEREBELLUM. that the superior segments are the smallest, the segments of the circumference the largest*, and the inferior segments of an intermediate size ; that there is no vacant space between the segments, but that both laminas and lamellse occupy the intervals; and, lastly, that all of these segments curve forwards upon themselves, so as to form a series of horizontal wheels or circles, the plane of which is at right angles to that of the wheel-shaped mass of the middle lobe. In the centre of the white nucleus of each half of the cerebellum is the corpus rhomboideum, or corpus dentatum ] : these bodies are of an ovoid form ; their yellowish investing layer is dense, and folded backwards and forwards upon itself, and exactly resembles that of the olivary bodies ; and I have been ac- customed to speak of these bodies as the olivary bodies of the cerebellum. Gall and Spurzheun regarded them as ganglions of reinforcement, and called them the ganglions of the cerebellum. Their shortest or vertical diameter is about one third of their long or horizontal diameter ; in one case, where the latter was fifteen lines, the former was five lines : moreover, the size of the corpora dentata of the cerebellum varies in different subjects, and is in proportion to the size of the lateral lobes of that organ: they are, therefore, much less developed in the lower animals than in man. The peduncles of the cerebellum are six in number, three on each side, namely a superior, a middle, and an inferior; they all originate, or, it may be said, terminate Ln the central nucleus. The superior peduncles of the cerebellum are generally known as the processus cerebelli ad testes; they are seen (r.fig. 280.) in front of the superior vermi- form process, and seem to pass up to the tubercula quadrigemina. We shall afterwards see that this is only apparent. The inferior peduncles {processus cerebelli ad medullam oblongatam") are in fact the restiform bodies ; they establish a direct and intimate communication between the cerebellum and the spinal cord. Lastly: the middle peduncles {m,fig. 276.), which are anterior to the two preceding sets, occupy the fore part of the circumference of the cerebellum, and are continued into the pons Varolii without any line of demarcation. They are called also the cerebellar pedwicles {processus cerebelli adpontem), and the crura or legs of the medulla oblongata. Horizontal Sections. Horizontal sections of the cerebellum have been studied with very great care, and have been well figured by Vicqd'Azyr; they show that the di- mensions of the central nucleus are much greater in the horizontal than in the vertical direction. J Upon these sections, which should be made parallel to the upper surface of the cerebellum, is seen the relative disposition of the lamina;, which are sometimes parallel and sometimes oblique in reference to each other, and which either extend around the entire circumference of the organ, or terminate in tapering extremities and again commence, and pass from one segment to another. ° Lastly: these horizontal sections show the continuity of the right and left lobes of the cerebellum by means of the middle lobe. In this middle lobe the lamellffi are more irregular than in the lateral lobes; they intersect each » The segment of the circumference, which is the largest of all, immediately divides into two I In each lobe of the cerebellum there is a mcdullarti centre th-\t \s t ^r^r,t i„ u ..i. section of the white substance is larger than at other poinU ^ ^^'^^ """" ¥ 3