THE VEINS. 759 The tibio-peroneal trunk corresponds to the commencement of the ulnar artery the posterior tibial artery to the trunk of the ulnar, and the peroneal arterv'to the interosseous artery of the forearm. Just as the peroneal often gives origin to the dorsal artery of the foot, so does the interosseous sometmnes eive off the carpal portion of the radial. .v. i x • The plantar arch is represented by the deep palmar arch; the plantar m- terosseous and the collateral arteries of the toes, by the pahnar interosseous and the collateral arteries of the fingers. ^ If it be asked why there is no superficial plantar arch correspondmg to the superficial palmar arch, it may be said, first, that the arteries of the dorsum of the foot are much larger than those on the back of the hand ; and secondly, that the hollow vaulted form of the sole of the foot preserves the plantar arch from the compression to which the palmar arch is liable, in consequence of the flattened form of the hand.* THE VEINS. Definition. — The venous system. — Origin of the veins. — Course. — Anasto- moses and plexuses. — Varieties. — Termination. — Valves. — Structure. — Preparation. — Method of description. The veins (<p>^^) are those vessels which convey the blood back from the extremities to the heart. They are also called les vaisseaux a sang noir, in op- position to the arteries, which are then named les vaisseaux a sang rouge; but these terms are incorrectly applied, for the pulmonary veins convey red, and the pulmonary artery black blood. There are two venous systems, corresponding to the two arterial systems, viz. the pulmonary venous system, through which the blood returns from the lungs to the left auricle, and the general venous system, which conveys the blood from aU parts of the body to the right auricle. There is also a third venous system, the system of the vena portce, which is an appendage of the general venous system, and, as we shall see, forms by itself a perfect circulatory ap- paratus. In the foetus there is a fourth venous system, named the umbilical. General View of the Venous System. Both the general venous system and the pulmonary venous system, regarded as a whole, resemble the roots of a tree, the trunk of which, in the former case, would correspond to the right auricle; and, in the latter, to the left auricle. Whilst a single arterial trunk, the aorta, gives origin to the general arterial sys- tem, the corresponding veins terminate in three venous trunks, viz. the superior and inferior venae cavse and the coronary vein; and so in the pulmonary venous system there is a single arterial trunk, the pulmonary artery, to four veins, two for each lung. Each artery has generally two accompanying veins, which are called its satellite veins {venm comites), and bear the same name as the artery ; besides these, there exist in some parts certain superficial or subcutaneous veins, which form a system totally apart from the arteries, and may be regarded as sup- plementary veins. The number of the veins is, therefore, much greater than that of the arteries. This rule, however, has some exceptions ; in fact, there is only one accom- panying vein for the great arterial trunks, and even for some arteries of moderate size; lastly, in some few instances, there is but one vein to two arteries. Thus, there is only one superior and one inferior mesenteric, one r..fprrp,7tl".hl!^!' '"["f^^'lo" Concerning varieties in the distribution of arteries, tiie reader is s ,%pr! ?h^ p! ^ its Applicitions to Patliology and Operative Surgery, by Professor U. Quani, witli drawings by j: kaclisc, 1841, 1842.] "Perative