THE PNEUMOGASTRIC NERVE IN THE THORAX. 1135 for these two layers, and they terminate, for the most part, at the superior orifice of the larynx: their number explains the exquisite sensibility of this opening. Some of these mucous filaments may be traced mto the substance of the arytenoid glands. i i • , . The filament for the arytenoid muscle is very hable to be confounded with the mucous filaments ; it perforates the muscle from behind forwards, and is partly distributed to it and partly to the lining membrane of the larynx. The descending or anastomotic filament, which is small, but of variable size, descends vertically, between the mucous membrane on the one hand, and the thyro- and crico-arytenoid muscles on the other, gains the posterior surface of the cricoid cartUage, and anastomoses upon it with the recurrent laryngeal nerve. This remarkable anastomosis was known to Galen.* Thus the superior laryngeal nerve chiefly belongs to the mucous membrane of the larynx; but it gives branches to the arytenoid and crico-thyroid muscles : the branch for the latter comes from the external laryngeal division of this nerve. TTie cardiac branches of the pneumogastric nerve in the 7iecL These vary both in number and size in different subjects, and even upon the two sides of the same body : they come off at different heights from the trunk of the pneumogastric; some of them, after a course of variable extent, join the superior cardiac nerves, either in the neck or in the thorax ; the others pass directly to the cardiac plexus. The most remarkable of the cervical cardiac branches of the pneumogastric is that which comes off at the lower part of the neck, a little above the first rib ; on the right side, it descends in front of the common carotid, and then in front of the brachio-cephalic artery, below which it anastomoses with the superior cardiac nerve. On the left side, it passes in front of the arch of the aorta, and anastomoses below that vessel with the superior cardiac nerve of that side. This branch sometimes goes directly to the cardiac plexus: it is sometimes double. The Pneumogastric Nerve in the Thorax, The thoracic portion of the pneumogastric nerve presents this peculiarity, that it differs remarkably on the right and left sides. On the right side, the nerve (p, fig. 302.) enters the thorax, between the sub- clavian vein and artery: lower down, it passes behind the brachio-cephalic vein and the superior cava, and behind the phrenic nerve, at the side of the trachea, or rather in the groove between the trachea and oesophagus : it then passes behind the root of the lung, where it becomes flattened and enlarged, gives off a great number of branches, and appears to expand, in order to unite in a different arrangement. Below the root of the lung the right pneumo- gastric is always divided into two flattened branches, which run along the right side of the oesophagus, join together at a short distance from the diaphragm and pass behind the oesophagus, with which canal the common trunk enters the abdomen. On the left side, the pneumogastric enters the thorax between the common carotid and the subclavian artery, in the triangular interval between those vessels, internal to and then behind the phrenic nerve, behind the brachio- cephalic vein, and to the left of the arch of the aorta f ; it then passes behind the left bronchus, upon which it ramifies, and unites again into one or two branches, which pass in front of the oesophagus, and enter the abdomen with it. In the thorax the pneumogastric gives off the recurrent or inferior laryngeal nerve, a cardiac branch, some tracheal and aisophageal branches, and branches to the anterior and posterior pulmonary plexuses. • See note, p. 1136. t The relation of the pneumogastric with the arch of the aorta explains the strptchin" ami atrophy of this nerve in aneurisms of that portion of the vessel. sirettnin^ anil VOL. II. K K