^094 NEUROLOGY they are named from their distribution and uses. The followiDR exhibits their nomenclature upon both principles: d i» First pair, or olfactory nerves. Second pair, or optic nerves. Third pair, or common motor nerves of the eyes. Fourth pair, or pathetic nerves, nervi trochleares. Fifth pair, or trtfacial nerves, nervi trigemini. Sixth pair, or external motor nerves of the eyes, nervi abducentes. Seventh pair, divided into(P°''^!" or auditory nerve, L portio dura, or facial nerve. r pneumogastric nerve, or par vagum, Eighth pair, divided into -j glosso-pharyngeal nerve, |_ spinal accessory nerve of Willis. Ninth pair, or hypoglossal nerve. Soemmerring has introduced the following modification of this nomenclature. He has divided the seventh pair into two, viz. the facial nerves, which form his seventh pair, and the auditory nerves which he calls the eighth; and then he has divided the eighth pair into three others, namely, a ninth pair formed by the glosso-pharyngeal nerves, a tenth formed by the pneumogastric nerves, an eleventh by the spinal accessory nerves ; the hypoglossal nerves, therefore, constitute his twelfth pair. This modification is founded on the separation of nerves so completely distinct as the facial and the auditory, which have only been described to- gether because they enter the same canal in the base of the cranium, namely, the internal auditory meatus. Still this modification is a useless one, and it has the greater inconvenience of rendering the language employed obscure, from giving a double acceptation to the same terms. It would be more philosophical to name and describe the cranial nerves from behind forwards, so that the hypoglossal nerves would constitute the first pair and the olfactory the last. The indisputable analogy which exists between the posterior cranial and the spinal nerves, and, moreover, the example of J. F. Meckel would fully warrant this innovation. Nevertheless, I think it right to retain the old usage, and to proceed from before backwards, in the enumeration as well as in the description of the nerves. As the origins or central extremities of all the cranial nerves and their course within the cranium can be studied upon the same brain, I have thought it right to describe in one article all these origins or central extremities, which will mutually illustrate each other by their differences and their analogies: the experience of the dissecting room proves moreover that, from want of a suflBcient number of brains to study the origin of each nerve in particular, this part of anatomy is generally neglected. The Central. Extremities of the Cranial Nerves. Dissection. Two preparations are required, namely, a brain removed from the cranium, together with the origins of the nerves perfectly preserved ; and the base of a cranium, together with those parts of the brain which are near the origin of the nerves. The first will serve for the examination of the central extremities of the nerves; and the second for tracing their course within the cranium. "Whilst the origin of all the spinal nerves is uniform and regular, that of the cranial nerves appears to be subject to no rule ; so that the cranial nerves differ as much from each other in regard to their origin as they differ collectively from the spinal nerves in the same particular. We shall see presently, how- ever, that the origins of all but the special nerves of the head may, to a certain extent, be referred to the same law of double roots (one of which is ganglionic) which presides over the origin of the spinal nerves.