791 VENA CAVA AND ITS BRANCHES. musculo-cutaneous nerve passes behind the median cephalic vein, and that the internal cutaneous divides into several branches, some of which pass m front, and others behind the median basilic vein. THE INFERIOR OR ASCENDING VENA CAVA AND ITS BRANCHES. The Inferior Vena Cava —the lumbar or vertebro-lumbar veins — the renal— the middle suprarenal — the spermatic and ovarian — the inferior phrenic — The Portal Si/siem of Veins—the branches of origin of the vena porta: — the vena portce — the hepatic veins. — The Common Iliacs—the internal iliac—the hcemorrhoidal veins and plexuses— the pelvic veins and plexuses in the male and in the female.—The Deep Veins of the lower extremity — the plantar, posterior tibial, peroneal, dorsal, anterior tibial, and popliteal — the femoral—the ex- ternal iliac. — The Superficial Veins of the lower extremity — the internal saphenous—the external saphenous. The vena cava inferior or ascendens, or the abdominal vena cava (I, fig. 222.), is the large venous trunk -which returns the blood from all the parts below the diaphragm to the heart. It is formed below by the junction of the two common iliac veins (n w), op- posite the intervertebral substance between the fourth and fifth lumbar ver- tebra; ; it passes vertically upwards, and having reached the lower surface of the liver, inclines a little towards the right side, to gain the groove formed for it in the posterior border of that organ. At the upper end of that groove the vena cava inferior perforates the tendinous opening in the diaphragm, and also the fibrous layer of the pericardium, which is, as it were, blended with the cordiform tendon at this point; the vein then curves suddenly to the left, and opens (i;fig. 192.) horizontally into the posterior inferior part of the right auricle. It is larger than the vena cava superior, but is not of uniform caliber throughout; for example, it increases in size in a marked degree immediately above the renal veins. The vena cava inferior presents also a second still larger dilatation opposite the liver, where it is joined by the hepatic veins ; in comparison with its diameter at that point, the vena cava inferior appears to be slightly contracted as it passes through the diaphragm. Belations. The inferior cava is in contact with the anterior surface of the vertebral column, and runs throughout the whole of its extent along the right side of the aorta ; it inclines somewhat obliquely to the right as it is about to pass into the groove on the liver. In front it is covered by the peritoneum, the third portion of the duodenum, the pancreas, the vena port£E, which crosses it at a very acute angle, and at its upper part by the liver, which forms a semi- canal, or a complete canal for it. It adheres closely to the margins of the tendinous opening in the diaphragm, and to the fibrous layer of the pericardium, as if its outer coat were blended with those structures. The serous layer of the pericardium covers the vein, but the fibrous layer does not form a sheath for it. The relations of the inferior cava with the liver account for the erroneous notion of some old anatomists, that this organ was the centre from which all the veins of the body proceeded. There is no valve in the inferior cava; but at its termination we find the Eustachian valve, which has been already described with the heart. Branches of origin. We have stated that the junction of the common iliac veins constitutes the origin of the inferior cava. It is very rare to find these veins uniting above the intervertebral disc between thefourthand fifth lumbar vertebraj; but in some few cases the junction has been observed to talce place opposite the renal veins. Collateral branches. The vena cava inferior receives all the veins corre- sponding to the branches of the abdominal aorta, excepting the veins from the