ANGEIOLOGY. 744 so that it forms a slight angle -with the external iliac, on account of the oblique inclination forwards of that vessel; and further, although it is in front of the fe- mur above, it is placed on the inner side of it below, preparatory to becoming posterior to it in the popliteal space. A line drawn from the middle of the space between the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium and the sym- physis pubis, down to the inner side of the femur, below the middle of that bone, would exactly represent its direction. The direction of the femoral artery, in respect to the femur, is such, that immediately below the femoral arch it is situated over the point of junction of the inner with the two outer thirds of the head of that bone, whilst lower down it is in relation with the inner aspect of the bone ; the artery, therefore, forms an acute angle, opening upwards, with the shaft of the femur, and there is an interval of an inch to eighteen lines between the vessel and the upper part of the bone, into which instmments maybe passed without wounding the artery. Advantage is taken of this fact in disarticulating the head of the femur in amputation at the hip joint. The femoral artery, which is slightly tortuous when the thigh is flexed upon the pelvis, becomes straight when the limb is extended, and it is much stretched during forcible extension. Relations. In front, the femoral artery lies be- neath the fascia in the triangular space which is bounded on the inside by the inner border of the adductor longus ; on the outside, by the sartorius; and above, by the femoral arch. Lower down, the sartorius is placed between the fascia and the artery, which is in relation, first, with the inner border, then with the posterior surface, lastly, with the outer border of that muscle: besides the fascia, a number of lymphatic glands lie between the upper part of the artery and the skin. Enlarge- ment of one or more of these glands has been mistaken for an aneurism, and an aneurism for an enlarged gland. From these relations of the front of the femoral artery it follows, that its anterior aspect may be exposed in the whole of its extent, but that it is more superficial in the neighbourhood of the crm-al the femoral artery rests, first, upon the body of the pubes, or the ilio- pectineal eminence, with which it is in immediate contact in emaciated subjects, but from which it is generaUy separated by the contiguous borders of the psoas-iliac and the pectineus muscles. The iUac fascia separates it from the nsoas-iliac muscle, so that in cases of simple psoas abscess, or congestive ab- scess from caries of the lumbar vertebrae, the femoral artery is situated in front of the sac of the abscess. The femoral artery is also in relation behind, with the head of the femur, lower down, with the pectineus, and then with the adductor longus. It follows, therefore, that the femoral artery may be very effectually compressed at its upper part, since it is superficially situated, ^SSSfuLln relation, first, with the psoas-iliac, then with the inner border of the sartorius. and, lastly, with the vastus mternus, which se- parates it from the inner surface of the femur. t>,i^i,np« In consequence of this relation to the bone, and also of the slight thickness of tSe sartoS ^hich separates it from the skin, the femoral artery may be