1143 GENERAL VIEW OF THE CRANIAL NERVES. ■with the exception of the uppermost filament, which describes a loop having its concavity turned upwards and resembUng a vascular anastomosis ; so that it we suppose it to be derived from the loop of the hypo-glossal, it would be directed towards the origin of the cervical nerves, and if, on the contrary, we suppose it to arise from the cervical nerves, it would be directed towards the origin of the hypo-glossal. This arrangement, which I have had the opportunity of observing- in many parts of the nervous system, appears to me to constitute a mode of anastomosis weU worthy the attention of physiologists. I am in- duced to regard it as intended to establish connexions between the different points of the spinal cord.* The small muscular branch of the infra-hjmd region. This nerve comes oft at the posterior border of the hyo-glossus, and ramifies in the upper part of the muscles of the infra-hyoid region ; a small transverse filament runs along the hyoid attachments of these muscles. This small nerve may be regarded as an accessory to the descendens noni. The branches for the hyo-glossus and stylo-glossns. As the hypo-glossal nerve comes into contact with the hyo-glossus, it becomes flattened and widened, and gives off several ascending branches, most of which ramify in the hyo- glossus, though several end in the stylo-glossus. The Terminal Branches of the Hypo-glossal Nerve. Opposite to the anterior border of the hyo-glossus the hypo-glossal nerve gives off some twigs to the under surface of the genio-hyoideus ; it then enters the genio-hyo-glossus and expands (d ziesLT x,fig. 300.) into a great number of filaments which run forwards, perforate that muscle at successive points, and are lost in the substance of the tongue. It is impossible to follow these filaments to the papillary membrane of the tongue. Some of them anastomose with the lingual (n) nerve, a branch of the inferior maxillary division of the fifth ; several accompany the lingual artery. The relations of the lingual portions of the hypo-glossal nerve with the lingual of the fifth are worthy of attention. The lingual nerve occupies the nnder part of the border of the tongue, runs along the styloglossus, and may be traced as far as the apex of the organ: it is submucous in the whole of its extent. The hypo-glossal nerve is situated on a much lower plane, and oc- cupies the under surface of the tongue, on each side of the median line. Function. The hypo-glossal is a muscular nerve : it regulates the move- ments of the tongue, whilst the lingual of the fifth and the glosso-pharyngeal confer sensibility upon it. This fact is most clearly established by ana- tomical, physiological, and pathological observations. Like all nerves having a simple distribution, the hypo-glossaJ has not a plexiform structure. General View of the Cranxal Nerves. All the spinal nerves present the gi-eatest regularity in arising from two scries of roots, in having a ganglionic enlargement on their posterior roots, and even in their course and termination, the differences or modifications of which depend on the different structure of the parts to which they are dis- tributed ; but the greatest irregularity appears to prevail in reference to the origin, the course, and the termination of the cranial nerves. From the com- parison which has been made hetween the skull and the vertebroe, and from the possibility of resolving the bones of the cranium into a certain number of cranial vertebraj, anatomists have entertained the idea of drawing a parallel * This mode of anastomosis may perliaps iiave some relation to that r^x action qfthesmnal cord, which Dr. Marshall Hall believes to be the cause of certain instinctive motions (•' On the Reflex Functions of the Medulla Oblongata and Medulla Spinalis." Phil. Trans \m)