NEUROLOGY, 946 called, or rather this part of the cerebro-spinal axis is reduced to a medulla oblongata, from which arise thirty-two pairs of nerves. From these facts it follows, that the length and size of the spinal cord bear an exact proportion to the muscular power and sensibility of the parts supplied by it; and further, that the grey matter of the cord is not nearly so important as the white substance, since it is absent in a great number of species.* Comparative Anatomy of the Medulla Oblongata. In the mammalia the medulla oblongata is constructed upon the same plan as in the human subject, but the anterior pyramids are much smaller, and the olivary bodies appear to be completely effaced. The tubercula cinerea of Ro- lando exist only in man; in whom alone do we find those white streaks of medullary substance upon the anterior wall of the fourth ventricle, which are regarded as forming, at least in part, the origins of the auditory nerves. The medulla oblongata of birds and reptiles presents no striking peculiarities. In the different species its size is always in proportion to that of the fifth, and especially the eighth pair of nerves, which take their origin from this part. In fishes a peculiar pair of lobes correspond to the medulla oblongata; these lobes were for a long time erroneously supposed to be the lateral lobes of the cerebellum, and have thus led to much obscurity concerning the anatomy of the encephalon in these animals. Desmoulins calls them the lobes of the fourth ventricle ; we shall call them the lobes of the eighth pair of nerves. In the ray and sturgeon this lobe is so highly developed, that it forms half of the encephalic mass. In the carp, besides the lateral lobes which are traversed by some white fibres, there is also a median lobe. Moreover, as a general rule, whenever the spinal cord has to furnish any nerves there is an enlargement, or a lobe. In the torpedo, in which the eighth pair of nerves are of enormous size, and supply the electrical organ, these lateral lobes are in an extraordinary degree developed. In the trigla there are certain small lobes behind the cerebellum, which correspond to the peculiar digitiform prolongations serving as organs of progression in the animals in question. The olivary bodies are most highly developed in the human subject; they exist also, but are very small, in some mammalia; they disappear in birds, reptiles, and fishes. I consider the olivary bodies as lobes in a rudimentary state. THE ISTHMUS OF THE ENCEPHALON. General description and division. — The Pons Varolii and middle peduncles of the cerebellum — the peduncles of the cerebrum — the superior peduncles of the cerebellum and the valve of Vieussens — the corpora quadrigemina. — In- ternal structure of the isthmus, viz. of its inferior, middle, and superior strata. Sections. — Developement.— Comparative anatomy. I shall, with Ridley, apply the term isthmus of the encephalon to that nar- rowed and constricted portion of the encephalic mass, which is situated be- tween the cerebrum, cerebellum, and medulla oblongata, which corresponds to the free margin of the tentorium cerebelli, and comprises the pons Varoln and middle peduncles of the cerebellum, the peduncles of the cerebrum, the tubercula quadrigemina, the superior peduncles of the cerebeUum, and the valve of Vieussens. . . , The isthmus of the encephalon is the common pomt of union between tne three great divisions of the cerebro-spinal axis, viz. the medulla SP'"^^' cerebrum, and the cerebellum. It contains within it the media by which tney » See note, p. 945.