THE ARTERIES. 663 portance to know, so that the nerves may be avoided, or that they may direct the operator in applying a ligature to the vessels themselves. For each artery it may be said there is one satellite nerve. With the aponeurotic sheaths. The principal artery of a limb is provided with a fibrous sheath, which belongs to it in common with its veins, and often with its accompanying nerve. When an artery perforates a muscle, it is pro- tected in its passage by a sheath or aponeurotic arch, which prevents, or at least moderates, the compression during the contraction of the muscle. Lastly, the arteries are surrounded by a loose cellular sheath, which allows of their dilatation and their alterations in position. The looseness of this cellular tissue favours the displacement of arteries during the infliction of wounds, and enables us to isolate these vessels by blunt instruments, which cannot injure them.* As the nutritious vessels reach the coat of the arteries through this sheath, we can easily understand the impropriety of separating the vessel from it too extensively in tying the arteries. Termination of the Arteries. The divisions of the arteries are not so numerous as would at first sight appear. The number of successive divisions, commencing at the aorta, is not more than twenty. The arteries terminate in the substance of organs. The number of arteries distributed to each organ is in proportion to the activity of its functions; se- creting organs are much more plentifully supplied with vessels than those in which the function of nutrition only is performed. Soemmerring, Prochaska, and others, have observed that the actual termination of the ai-teries is different in different organs. Referring for further details upon this subject to textural anatomy, I shall content myself with stating here, that the arteries terminate in the capillary system, through the medium of which they become continuous with the veins. Structure of Arteries. The walls of an artery are composed of three coats : an external, a middle, and an internal. The external coat. This is generally called the cellular coat, because it is in some measure continuous with the surroimding cellular tissue. Scarpa erro- neously regarded it as not forming an integrant part of the arteries. It con- sists of a filamentous, areolar, and as it were felted tissue, which is never charged with fat, or infiltrated with serum, and which appears to me to present all the characters of the dartoid tissue. I believe that the contractility which has been attributed to the middle coat, is altogether dependent upon this. It is the only coat which remains undivided after the application of a ligature. The proper or middle coat. The characteristic properties of arteries are chiefly dependent upon this coat. It is composed of circular fibres, which in- terlace at very acute angles, but which do not present the spiral arrangement admitted by some authors. From its yellow colour and its elasticity, it has been called the yellow or elastic coat. It is extensible longitudinally and transversely. It is very fragile, is easily torn by longitudinal extension, and IS cut by a ligature. It is proportionally thinner in the great than in the small arteries. This coat is of the same nature as the yellow elastic liga- ments, and IS therefore not muscular. Moreover, chemical analysis shows that It contains no fibrine; direct irritation developes no contractility in it; and the supposed phenomena of irritability pointed out by Haller may be entirely attributed to elasticity. The internal coat. It is a transparent pellicle of extreme tenuity ; it must i,n.ih '■'""!'. "''^ 'hat a divided artery is enabled to retract within its licatii. In tiic alKiomcn and lioad, tliis shcatli scarcely exists.] " reiraci wittim its