714 ANGEIOLOGY. and to the spinal cord and its membranes, in the same manner as the dorsal and lumbar spmal arteries. The praevertebral branch of the ascending pharyngeal artery sometimes supplies the cervico-spinal branch of the first two bter- vertebral spaces in the cervical region. Terminal branches. Opposite the lower extremity of the lateral lobe of the thyroid gland, the inferior thyroid artery divides into three branches : of these, one follows the lower border of the gland, another passes to the posterior sur- face of its lateral lobe, whilst the third dips between the gland and the trachea, runs along the lower border of the cricoid cartilage, sometimes becomes superficial opposite the isthmus of the thyroid body, and forms an anastomo- tic arch with its fellow of the opposite side, along the upper margin of that isthmus. The Supra-scapular Artery. The superior or supra-scapular artery (transversus humeri, 5, fig. 204.), destined for the supra- and infra-spinous fossse, and which might also be deno- minated the cleido-supra-scapular from its course, arises from the front of the subclavian below the inferior thyroid, and often by a common trunk, either with the posterior scapular, or with the inferior thyroid and posterior scapular united, forming what is then called the thyroid axis. It is at first directed ver- tically downwards, then bends horizontally outwards to run along behind the clavicle, and gain the upper border of the scapula, where it passes over, very rarely under, the ligament, which converts the coracoid or supra-scapular notch into a foramen; and being reflected over that ligament, dips into the supra-spinous fossa, and crossing the concave border of the spine of the scapula, enters the infra-spinous fossa, in which situation it terminates (5', f g. 209.). Relations. It is concealed at its origin by the stemo-mastoid muscle, and is then situated along the base of the supra-clavicular triangle ; it is in relation in front with the clavicle, following the direction of that bone; behind, with the subclavian artery and the brachial plexus of nerves, which it crosses at right angles ; above, with the deep fascia and the platysma myoides, which separate it from the skin; and iefou), with the subclavian vein: more externally, it dips under the trapezius, and comes in contact with the supra-scapular nerve, is separated from it at the coracoid notch, and again becomes applied to it in the supra- and infra-spiaous fossee, where it is situated between the muscles and the bone. Collateral branches. Among a great number of unnamed muscular and cutaneous branches, I would particularly notice, 1. A small thoracic branch, which passes vertically downwards behind the clavicle, perforates the sub- clavius, and anastomcises with the thoracic arteries. 2. A branch for the tra- pezius, which is so large, that it appears to result from the bifurcation of the artery. It generally arises at the point where the vessel dips into the supra- spinous fossa; at other times it comes off very near the origin of the artery, passes from before backwards, turns round the scaleni muscles parallel with the posterior scapular artery, with which one might confound it, and ramifies in the trapezius and the supra-spinatus muscles, entering the former at its under, and the latter at its upper, surface : some of the branches are distributed to the periosteum of the acromion and to the corresponding integuments. Again, in the supra- and infra-spinous fossaj it gives off a great number of periosteal, osseous, muscular, and articular branches. In the infra-spinous fossa (5, fig. 209.), it forms a free arched anastomosis with the subscapular artery, and gives ofF a branch which runs along the axillary border of the scapula, and anastomoses with the posterior scapular artery at the lower angle of that bone.