861 THE EYELIDS. cartila-'-es a fibrous membrane, a muscular layer, two integumentary layers, one mucous and the other cutaneous, and certain follicles, with vessels, nerves, / and cellular tissue. . , . , « , ^ / ' The tarsal cartilages, which resemble m their use the cylinders of wood at- 'l^ 1 tached to the bottom of a map or diagram, to prevent it from hanging in folds, ' are two in number, one for each eyelid; they are cartilaginous plates, situated within the free margin and the contiguous portion of the lids. The tarsal car- ■ tilase of the upper eyelid (a. Jigs. 235, 236.) is semilunar; that of the lower evelid (b) has the form of a small narrow band ; neither of them occupies the entire len'^h of the corresponding lid. Their anterior surface is convex, and is covered"by the fibres of the orbicularis palpebrarum muscle. Their posterior surface (Jig- 235.) corresponds to the conjunctiva, and is closely adherent to it. The Meibomian glands are situated between the conjunctiva and the car- tilage, or rather in the substance of the cartilage. The adherent border of each tarsal cartilage is thin, and affords attachment to the fibrous membrane of the lids ; the adherent border of the cartilage of the upper eyelid, which is convex, also gives attachment to the levator palpebree superioris muscle. The free margins of these cartilages are their thickest parts, and occasion the thickness of the free margins of the eyelids.* The cutaneous layer is remarkable for its excessive tenuity and semi- transparency : the eyelashes are appendages of this part of the integument. The cellular layer is no less remarkable for the absence of fat, than for its extreme delicacy : it is the type indeed of serous cellular tissue, and is fre- quently the seat of serous infiltrations. The muscular layer is formed by the palpebral portion of the orbicularis muscle, the pale colour of which, as I have already noticed, contrasts with the dark red hue of the orbital portion of the same muscle. Besides this, the upper eyelid has an extrinsic muscle, the levator palpebrce superioris (a, Jig. 237.), the tendon of which, however, is alone concerned in the formation of that eyelid, by being attached to the upper border of the corresponding tarsal cartUage. The Jibrous layer consists of a fibrous membrane, which arises from the margin of the orbit, and is attached to ihe corresponding borders of the tarsal cartilages. This membrane is very strong and unyielding in the outer half of the base of the orbit, but diminishes in thickness towards the inner half of that base, especially on the inner portion of the upper eyelid, where it de- generates into cellular tissue. The terra ligament of the external canthus might be applied to a fibrous raphe, which extends horizontally from that angle to the base of the orbit. This raphe bifurcates opposite the outer canthus, so as to become attached to the outer end of each tarsal cartilage, and it exactly corresponds to the tendon of the orbicu- laris palpebrarum, which is situated at the inner canthus, and which is also bi- furcated, to join the inner ends of the same cartilages. On cutting through this raphe, some very strong fibrous bundles are ex- posed, which arise from the external wall of the orbit, and spread out into the substance of the upper eyelid. The expanded tendon of the levator palpebrae superioris, which is subjacent to the fibrous layer, completes the fibrous structure of the upper eyelid. The tarsal cartilages and the fibrous layer are situated upon the same plane. The mucous layer, or palpebral conjunctiva, consists of a membrane which lines the posterior surface {Jig. 235.) of the eyelids, and is moreover extended over the globe of the eye. This membrane is called the conjunctiva, or tunica adnata, because it connects the eyelids with the ball of the eye. In order to facilitate our description, we shall suppose it to commence at the free margin of the upper eyelid {a'. Jig. 240.), where it is continuous with the skin : having • [The substance of the tarsal cartilages differs from that of ordinary cartilage in beins more SUfiif"'' f^V 'r'r*^.? few microscopic filaments scattered through it ; in this ?cn)ect .ipproachmg in character to fibrn-cartllage.] mm itspen