ANGEIOLOGY. 712 of the posterior cerebral is therefore subject to variety. In certaia cases, as I have already stated, the posterior cerebral is exclusively derived from it. The posterior choroid artery arises from the back part of the posterior cerebral, immediatdy after the junction of that vessel with the communicating artery; it turns round the crus cerebri, passes above and supplies the tu- bercula quadrigemina, and terminates in the velum interpositum and choroid plexus. As the posterior cerebral artery quits the crus cerebri, it gives oflF a branch which passes outwards and backwards, crosses obliquely the long convolution which forms the lateral boundary of the great fissure of the brain, and ramifies upon the lower surface of the cerebrum. Lastly, the posterior cerebral gives ofiF a small constant branch, which may be called the artery of the fascia dentata, to which it is distributed. Remarks on the Arteries of the Brain, Cerebellum, and Medulla Oblongata. The arteries of the encephalon, t. e. of the brain, cerebellum, and medulla, are derived from four principal trunks, two anterior, viz. the internal carotids, which arise from the common carotids, and two posterior, viz. the vertebrals, which are branches of the subclavian arteries. There are several circimi- stances to be remarked concerning these vessels, viz. their great size, which is dependant on that of the brain; their depth from the surface before they enter the cranium ; the numerous curves formed by them as they are entering the cranial cavity, the use of which is evidently to retard the course of the blood; the absence of any large collateral branches, the only exception being the ophthalmic branch of the internal carotid, by the existence of which the circulation in the eye is connected with that in the brain. Another remark- able point concerning these vessels is their anastomoses at the base of the cranium, viz. the anastomosis, or rather the confluence, of the right and left vertebral, so as to form the basilar artery ; the anastomosis of the right and left internal carotids by means of the anterior communicating artery, which unites the anterior cerebrals, and the anastomosis of the internal carotids with the vertebrals by the communicating arteries of Willis. By these anastomoses an arterial hexagon (the circle of Willis) is formed, the anterior margins of which correspond with the anterior cerebral arteries, the posterior with the posterior cerebrals, and the lateral with the communicating arteries of Willis.* From this hexagon, as from a centre, proceed all the arteries of the brain, viz. from the anterior angle, the anterior cerebral arteries; from the posterior angle, the basilar artery; from the anterior lateral angle on each side, the middle cerebral; and from the posterior lateral angle on each side, the pos- terior cerebral artery. Owing to the existence of these large anastomotic communications, any one of the four arterial trunks would be sufficient to carry on the circulation in the brain, if the other three were wanting or obliterated. The situation of this arterial hexagon between the bones of the cranium and the brain is re- markable, because it explains the alternate movements of elevation and depression seen in the brain when that organ is exposed during life. It should also be observed that the arteries of the cerebellum, pons Varolii, and medulla oblongata are derived from the same sources as those of the brain. Lastly, as to the mode of distribution of these vessels it may be remarked, that the arteries of the brain pass over the free surface of one or more con- volutions, dip into the sulci between the convolutions, are reflected from one side of them to the other, give off a great number of very small branches, emerge from a given sulcus to regain the surface of the adjacent convolutions, * In .1 person who died of apoplexy, Morgagni found a want of communication between the vertebr.ils and carotids; and lie attributed the apoplexy partly to this circumstance, and partly to the fact tliat ttie left vertebral arose directly from tlie arcli of the aorta.