ANGEIOLOGY. 758 branch inwards, which anastomoses with the internal collateral artery and sometimes even constitutes that artery. . external collateral artery of tlie little toe (I), which may almost be regarded indifferently as arising from the external plantar artery, or from the plantar arch, passes forwards under the flexor brevis of the little toe, and terminates along the outer border of that toe, by anastomosing with the tarsal and meta- tarsal arteries derived from the dorsal artery of the foot. I have seen this branch give origin to both the external and internal collateral arteries of the little toe. Comparison between the Arteries of the Upper and Lower Extremities. All the arteries of the lower extremities are derived from two primitive trunks, viz. the right and left common iliac arteries, each of which soon sub- divides into an internal and external iliac. The arteries for the upper ex- tremities and head arise from three primitive trunks, the first being the brachio-cephalic, or innominate artery, which soon subdivides into the right common carotid and right subclavian ; the second is the left common carotid, and the third the left subclavian, which may justly be regarded as forming together a single primitive trunk. There are then, ultimately, four trunks for the npper as well as the lower parts of the body. The common carotid arteries, distributed as they are to the head, cannot be compared to the internal iliacs which are given to the pelvis and the organs contained in the pelvic cavity : but as the pelvis corresponds to the shoulder, we may find some analogy, if not in origin, at least in distribution, between the arteries of the one and of the other. The external iliac corresponds to the subclavian ; the more numerous col- lateral branches of the latter are in part represented by the branches of the internal iliac to the -walls of the pelvis. Thus, the os coxse, as well as the scapula, is as it were girdled by an arterial circle. The posterior scapular artery, which runs along the vertebral border of the scapula, represents the circumflex iliac, which turns round the crest of the ilium, and is distributed to the muscles of the abdominal parietes in the same manner as the posterior scapula is distributed to the serratus magnus and the rhomboideus. I will not carry the analogy farther, by comparing the supra-scapular, subscapular, and internal mammary arteries with the sciatic, gluteal, obturator, and internal pudic The axillary and brachial arteries correspond to the femoral and popliteal. The deep humeral artery represents the deep femoral; the circumflex branches of the femoral correspond to the circumflex and subscapular branches of the axillary : the anastomoses of the femoral circumflex arteries with the obturator, gluteal, and sciatic, correspond to the anastomoses of the circumflex and subscapular branches of the axillary with the supra-scapular and posterior scapular branches of the subclavian. The popliteal portion of the femoral represents that part of the brachial which is situated opposite the bend of the elbow; the internal and external collateral arteries derived from the brachial, together with the radial, ulnar, and interosseous recurrents, form anastomotic circles around the elbow, which are exactly analogous to those formed by the superior articular arteries given off from the popliteal with the inferior articular arteries and the anterior tibial recurrent artery. The bifurcation of the popliteal into the anterior tibial and the tibio-peroneal trunk represents the bifurcation of the brachial into the radial and ulnar: the anterior tibial corresponds to the portion of the radial situated in the forearm; the dorsal artery of the foot to the carpal portion of the radial; and the plan- tar arch, which is continuous with the dorsal artery of the foot, represents the deep palmar arch, which is the continuation of the radial in the hand.