THE HEART. 647 estimates will show. The capacity of the left ventricle to that of the right has been stated as 31 to 33, as 10 to 11, as 5 to 6, as 2 to 3, and as 1 to 2. (^Holler, t. i. 1. iv. sect. 3. p. 327.) Now the discrepancies in these estimates prove either the deficiency of the methods of observation, or the existence of real differences resulting from a greater or less amount of accidental obstruction to the pulmonary circulation occurring shortly before death. In the great majority of subjects the right ventricle is proved to be more capacious than the left, and this, according to the judicious remark of Sabatier, depends upon the state of the circulation through the heart during the last moments of life, at which time the blood flows back from the lungs into the right ventricle, whilst the left ventricle not experiencing a similar obstruction, and moreover acting with greater vigour, empties itself more or less completely of the blood contained within it. After death by decapitation the right ventricle is as much contracted as the left. The condition of the heart, then, in the dead body, in which that organ is- found as it was at the moment of death, affords us no means of judging of the relative capacity of its cavities during life. If by tying the aorta in a living animal we cause stagnation of the blood in the left ventricle, whilst the exit of that fluid from the right cavities through the pulmonary artery remains imimpeded, the relative capacity of the two ventricles will be found to be exactly the reverse of what is generally indicated. The gradual injection of the heart with wax or taUow, so as to distend the ventricles without producing laceration, enables us to determine the size and the weight of the mass of injection contained within each cavity of the heart, and also to measure these cavities under similar conditions, that is to say, in a state of distension. From observations which I have made in this way it appeared, that the left ventricle was rather more capacious than the right. Difference in the appearance of the cavity and in the structure of its parietes. In the left ventricle we find the three kinds of columnse carnese. Of the columns of the first kind there are only two {ii,fig. 197.), which are remark- able for their great size. Their summits are almost ■W' always bifurcated, and sometimes they are divided \ into three parts; not unfrequently each of these 4 columnae results from the apposition of two or three Si others, which are united by small fibrous cords or B filaments. W The fleshy colimins of the second kind are ' smaller in the left than in the right ventricle. The ^ areolar arrangement is less strongly marked, and is" observed only in the innermost layer, excepting always at the apex, the whole thickness of which, with the exception of the most superficial layer, presents the cavernous arrangement. Moreover, the areolae are remarkable for their small size, and for the slenderness and number of the columnse by which they are surrounded. These muscular areolte are often completed by fibrous cords. Difference in thickness. The walls of the left ventricle are much thicker than those of the right (figs. 193, 194. 197.). The proportion of one to two arrived at by Laennce is too slight; it is one to foui-, or even one to five. It is generally said that the muscular tissue of the heart is more compact on the left than on the right side. Difference in the orifices. The left auriculo-ventricular orifice (through which a bristle is inserted,^9. 197.) exactly resembles the right one, and like It, IS provided with a valve (</) analogous to the tricuspid, and named by Ve- salius the mitral valve, from its being regularly divided into two opposite se<r- ments (m m,figs. 194,195.). The mitral valve is stronger than the tricuspid It IS thicker and longer, and receives stronger and more numerous chordce