733 THE INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. sacrum; they separate from each other at an acute angle, pass obliquely downwards and outwards, and form the two sides of an isosceles triangle, the base of which corresponds with the transverse diameter of the fifth lumbar vertebra. These arteries are generally straight, but not unfrequently they are tortuous in aged persons. In the adult they are about two inches long, the right being rather longer than the left, from the position of the aorta; but they are often much shorter, on account of their bifurcating higher than usual. Meckel has remarked that this premature bifurcation is more common on the left than on the right side. In a specimen deposited in the museum of the Ecole de Medecine, the right common iliac is entirely wanting ; the aorta dividing into three branches, two on the right, viz. the internal and external iliacs, and one on the left, viz. the common iliac, which is distributed in the usual manner. Belations. They are covered by, and are loosely connected with, the perito- neum ; they are crossed by the ureters and the spermatic vessels, besides Avhich the left common iliac is crossed by the inferior mesenteric artery; they are sur- rounded by a great number of lymphatic glands, and rest above upon the vertebral column, and on the outside and below upon the inner side of the psoas muscle. It is of great importance to comprehend their relations with the common iliac veins. The veins are situated behind the arteries; but as the right and left vein unite on the right side of the vertebral column, the left common iliac vein comes into relation with both common iUac arteries. The common iliac artery gives off no collateral branch ; it merely supplies some twigs to the cellular tissue, the lymphatic glands, and the coats of the common iliac veins. It occasionally gives off one of the renal arteries; and it has been seen to supply the spermatic and the ilio-lumbar arteries. Terminal branches. The common iliac artery terminates by dividing into two branches, which remain in contact with each other for a short distance: the internal branch dips into the pelvis, and is called the internal iliac or hy- pogastric artery; the external branch continues in the original course of the common iliac, and is termed the external iliac artery. The Internal Ixiac or Hypogastric Artery. Fig. 212. The internal iliac or hypogastric artery {t,figs. 199. 212.) is distributed to all the organs contained in the cavity of the pelvis; to the muscles which line it within and cover it without; to the external and internal organs of generation, and to the integuments. It passes at first obliquely downwards and forwards, and, as it were, in contact with the external iliac ; it then dips vertically into the pelvis in front of the sacro-iliac synchon- drosis, describing a short curve ; and after a course of about one inch or one inch and a half in length, divides opposite the upper part of the sacro-sciatic notch into a greater or less number of branches, which do not al- ways arise in the same way from the prin- cipal trunk, but whose ultimate distribution is constant. It is covered by peritoneum, and , , , is crossed by the ureter ; it rests behind on the lumbo-sacral nerve and pyriformis muscle ; and the internal iHac vein is behmd and to its outer side. Its branches, all of which sometimes arise from two principal trunks one antenor and the other posterior, may be divided into an anterior set, consisting of the umbihcal. vesical, obturator, middle hamorrhoidal, uterine, vaginal sciatif