863 THE MUSCLES OF THE EYE. small linear canals communicate with each other opposite the adherent border of the tarsal cartilage; at other times they bifurcate. It is the waxy secretion from the Meibomian glands which prevents the tears from tricklmg m front of the eyelids. These glands are lodged in the deep grooves in the tarsal cartilages; they are, therefore, as visible upon the external as the internal surface of the cartilages. The Meibomian glands belong to the class of sebaceous follicles, and torm a transition, as it were, from follicles to glands. The carunculalachrymalis ic,fig. 235.; *,fig. 239.) consists of asmaU, oblong group of follicles, situated at the inner angle of the eyelids, and on the inner side of that semilunar fold of the conjunctiva, which we have spoken of as the trace of a third eyelid. It is about the size of a grain wheat. It is inter- posed between the free margins of the eyelids, in that part of those margins, which extends between the lachrymal tubercles and the internal commissure; but it is upon a plane posterior to these margins, so that it does not prevent their mutual contact. It is covered by a fold of the conjunctiva, which gives it a reddish aspect; it presents a great number of openings, through which a waxy secretion exudes, and projecting from it are several small hairs, which may become so long as to produce ophthalmia. The caruncula lachrymalis is composed of sebaceous follicular glands, of the same nature as the Meibomian glands. It was for a long time considered to be a second lachrymal gland. In order to obtain a good view of the orifices and of the light coloured and sometimes very numerous hairs of the caruncula lachrymalis, that body should be covered with ink, or a solution of carmine, and then examined with a lens. Vessels and nerves of the eyelids. The arteries are the internal and external palpebral branches of the ophthalmic, and the palpebral branches of the tem- poral, infra-orbital, and facial arteries. I have already said that the palpebral arteries form two arches, one for each eyelid. The veins have the same name, folloT' the same direction, and open into the corresponding venous trunks. The nerves are derived from two sources, viz. the facial and the fifth nerve. Uses. The eyelids protect the eye from the action of light and air, and of any particles floating in the latter; by a sweeping movement they clean the surface of the organ, over which they also spread the lachrymal fluid, which serves as a protection to the eyeball against the action of the air. The eye- lids, from their capability of being interposed between the eye and external objects, place the exercise of vision under the control of the will. The Muscles of the Eye, and the Levator Palpebrce Superioris. The muscles of the eye are six in number, and are distinguished into the sfraisrAi and the oblique. There are four straight and two oblique muscles. With these we shall also describe the levator palpebra superioris. Dissection. Remove the roof of the orbit by two cuts with the saw, meeting each other at an acute angle opposite the optic foramen ; be careful that the inner cut does not injure the cartilaginous puUey of the superior obUque muscle. Dissect the origins of these several muscles from the deepest part ot the orbit with the greatest care. They are arranged completely round the optic nerve {o,figs. 237, 238.) and the motor oculi nerves. Those which anse above the optic nerve are attached to the dura mater and periosteum, but not to the bone; but those which arise below the nerve adhere more closely to tne bone. 1 he inferior or smaU oblique muscle is the only one which does not arise from the bottom of the orbital cavity. The Levator Palpebrce Superioris. rn3il^^"'?K P^'^P^'^ superioris {a. Jigs. 237, 238.), much thinner and nar- rower than the rectus superior whichjs subjacent to it, arioes from the bottl