ANGEIOLOGY. 652 All the muscular fibres arise from the fibrous zones, and they all terminate upon them, as was clearly pointed out by Lower. * They do not consist of short fibres placed end to end, but are of considerable length, descending in one part of their course, and ascending in the other. The muscular fibres are ranged in successive layers, which pass as it were into each other. The muscular fasciculi of each layer are not distinct from one another, but they mutually send off fibres by which they are bound together like the pillars of the diaphragm ; or it may be said, that they intersect each other at very acute angles ; it is therefore impossible to calculate the number of layers, which, ac- cording to Wolfi", are about three in the right ventricle and six in the left. All that we are able to determine is, the different sets of fibres which enter into the formation of the heart, and of these we find that there are two sets, one'common, the other proper filsres. The superficial common fibres. All the superficial fibres are common to the two ventricles, and all are oblique and curved; they commence at the base of the heart, and pass obliquely in a spiral manner towards the apex. All the superficial fibres of the anterior region of the heart pass from the right to the left side; all those of the posterior region from the left to the right side. There are neither vertical nor horizontal fibres in the heart, as some authors have stated. The arrangement of the fibres at the apex of the heart forms, as it were, a key to the stnicture of the entire organ. The anterior and the posterior superficial common fibres both converge towards that point. Each of these sets of fibres forms a very distinct fasciculus or band, and the two bands mutually turn round each other in a semi-spiral direction, so that the anterior band is embraced on the left side by the posterior, which is in its turn embraced by the anterior band on the right side ; from the apex of the heart the fibres change their course, and instead of descending, they ascend; and instead of being superficial, they become deep-seated. Having entered the heart at its apex, they continue to be reflected upwards, and present an ar- rangement which I shall describe, after having explained the course of the proper fibres. The proper fibres. These are situated between the superficial or descending, and the deep or ascending portion of the common fibres. They form in each ventricle a sort of small barrel or truncated cone, which is applied to that of the opposite ventricle; the superior openings of these cones correspond to the auriculo-ventricular orifices; while the inferior, which are smaller, leave op- posite the apex of the heart two considerable intervals, which are filled up by the common fibres. Do these proper fibres turn round and round without end, like an uninterrupted spiral, as Senac was inclined to believe ? It appears to me, that their extremities are attached to the auriculo-ventricular zones, and that they describe more or less complete circles, which intersect each other at very acute angles. The reflected or deep common fibres. The superficial common fibres are re- flected at the apex of the heart, and penetrate into its interior through the lower orifices of the small barrels or cones, formed by the proper fibres. In this situation the anterior and posterior bands, by being reflected upwards, and mutually turned round each other, form at the apex of the heart a sort of star with curved rays. Nothing can be more evident than the reflection or turning up of the fibres ; it was pointed out, though vaguely, by Vesalius, but has been most explicitly described by Steno, who stated expressly that the external fibres enter the heart at the apex, and assuming an opposite direction to their former one, be- come the innermost layers, and who compared the apex of the heart to a star. It was also described by Lower, who has accurately figured a radiated struc- ture at the summit of each ventricle; by Winslow, who says that the super- • The same arrangement occurs in regard to the fibres of the auricles; it follows, therefore, that the muscular fibres of the ventricles are not directly continuous with those of the auricles.