NEUROLOGY. 1060 Fig. 289. mums digHorum, tvhich are very numerous and diverging, the superior hitmir also recurrent; the branch for the extensor proprius digiiMmi; and Jor thee3,tensor carpi ulnaris: all these branches arise by a common trunk and enter the deep surface of the muscles. The branches for the deep layer also arise by a common trunk (i, fin. 289 ■) which may be regarded as the continuation of the muscular division of the musculo-spiral considerably diminished in size. This common trunk passes vertically downwards between the superficial and deep layers of muscles, gives off a branch, which enters the superficial aspect of the extensor longus pollicis, then passes between the adductor longus and extensor brevis pol- licis on the one hand, and the extensor longus pollicis on the other, runs in contact with the interosseous liga- •■ ment, and gives off a first branch to the extensor longus pollicis, a second which enters the deep surface of the same muscle, and a small branch which enters the outer border of the extensor proprius indicis. Reduced at length to a very small branch, the mus- cular division of the musculo-spiral nerve enters the groove (at s) for the tendons of the extensor communis digitorum, lying beneath them, in contact with the pe- riosteum ; it runs over the carpus, and expands into a number of articular filaments, which enter the radio- carpal, carpal, and carpo-metacarpal articulations; in this latter portion of its course, the nerve is of a greyish colour, swollen, and as it were knotted, a condition which is observed in all articular nerves. The superficial, cutaneous or digital division of the mus- culo-spiral nerve, or the radial nerve properly so called, forms the external dorsal nerve of the hand, and is about half the size of the muscular division. It passes verti- cally downwards, between the supinator longus and the extensor carpi radialis longior, along the outer side of the radial artery: having reached the middle of the fore-arm, it escapes from beneath the tendon of the supinator longus, and runs along the outer border of that tendon. Situated at first beneath the fascia, it soon perforates it, becomes sub- cutaneous, runs vertically downwards, and, about an inch and a half above the styloid process of the radius, divides into an external and an internal branch. The external branch (o,figs. 288, 289.), which is the sipaller, runs along the outer side of the styloid process of the radius, and then along the outer border of the carpus *, of the first metacarpal bone, and of the first and second pha- langes of the thumb, and terminates in the skin beneath the nail; it is the external dorsal collateral branch of the thumb. The intenial branch (e, fig. 289.), which is much larger, passes obliquely behind the radius, crosses the tendons of the adductor longus and extensor brevis pollicis, and divides into three secondary branches, namely, counting from without inwards, the internal dorsal collateral nerve of the thumb, and the external and internal dorsal collateral nerves of the index finger.f Summary. The musculo-spiral nerve gives off: in the arm, two cutaneous branches, one internal, the other external, the latter of which is much the larger, and may be traced as far as the carpus ; and also muscular branches to the three portions of the triceps and to the anconeus: to the fore-arm, it sup- plies muscular branches to all the muscles of the deep and superficial layers of the posterior and external regions; and to the hand, certain cutaneous branches, namely, the dorsal collateral nerves of the thumb and index finger. * [Where it sends an anastomotic filament to the palmar cutaneous branch of the median.] t [It also supplies the external dorsal collateral of the middle finger, and often unites willi the ulnar cutaneous to form the dorsal collaterals for the couliguous sides of the middle and ring fingers.]