1088 NEUROLOGY. point out the thickening, the grey colour, and the knotted, and as it were, gang- lionated structure of the external collateral nerve of the little toe opposite to the articulations. The external calcaneal nerves, which may he regarded as forming the termi- nation of the tibial saphenous, are very remarkable ; they pass vertically along the outer side of the os calcis, expand into several filaments, which are re- flected upon the ridge which separates the external from the inferior surface of that bone, and are distributed to the skin upon the heel. During its course along the leg, the tibial saphenous gives ofiF scarcely a single filament, but along the outer border of the foot, it supplies a great number, which run downwards and forwards, and terminate in the skin covering the external plantar region. The size of the tibial saphenous nerve is inversely proportioned to that of the peroneal saphenous and musculo-cutaneous nerves. Thus, when the peroneal saphenous nerve is large, it furnishes most of the external calcaneal branches, and when the musculo-cutaneous nerve is large, it supplies, besides the external calcaneal, the internal dorsal collateral nerve of the little toe, and the external dorsal coUateral nerve of the fourth toe. The Nerves for the two Heads of the Gastrocnemius and for the Soleus. The nerve for the inner head of the gastrocnemius often arises by a com- mon trunk with the tibial saphenous ; again, the nerves for the outer head of the gastrocnemius and for the soleus often arise by a common trunk : the nerves for the gastrocnemius enter the anterior surface of the head of that muscle and immediately ramify. The nerve for the soleus is the largest, and enters the muscle at its upper arch; all these nerves ramify as soon as they enter the muscles which they supply. The Articular Nerve, OTid Nerve for the Plantaris Longus. The posterior articular nerve of the knee runs forwards to enter the posterior ligament of the articulation : one of its filaments follows the direction of the internal articular artery, and is lost in the popliteus.* The nerve for the plantaris longus always arises separately from the posterior tibial nerve, and immediately dips into the substance of the muscle. Collateral Branches of the Internal Popliteal Nerve in the Leg. There are three sets of collateral branches given off by the posterior tibial nerve in the leg : namely, the nerve for the popliteus ; the nerves for the deep layer of muscles; the internal calcaneal nerve. Lastly, several very small filaments come off from the nerve, run along the posterior tibial artery, and, after a course of variable length, perforate the aponeurosis and ramify in the skin. . , , . . , , The nerve for the popliteus arises opposite the knee-joint, runs forwards on the outer side of the popliteal vessels, to gain the lower border of the muscle, around which it turns ; before entering the muscle, the nerve expands into several branches, aU of which pass horizontally forwards opposite to the mter- » rFrotn the dissections of Mr. Ellis, it appears that there is an articular nerve to the knep- inint with each articular artery. The superior external articular nerye is the one described at ^1084 it most commonly arises from tfie external popliteal. The inferior external articular Lo irise from the external popliteal, and sometimes from the sciatic nerve; it is a long branch whU dlscends towards the external condyle, passes below it on the outer side of the jo nt, and JZforaterthe capsule The superior internal articular is very small, and is not constant; it Trrp-n md^nl arterr uXn thT^^ muscle, passes beneath the internal ateral ligament posterior ligament. (.Ellis's Demovslrations of Anatcny, pp. 075, 67fi.)]