. ANGEIOLOGY. tendons of the thumb, opposite the wrist; the palmar portion by dividing all the flexor tendons in the palm. It is therefore advisable to postpone the elamina- tion ot the palmar portion of the artery until the ulnar has been studied Ihe radial artery {p, Jigs. 210, 211.), the outer of the two branches into which the brachial divides, is more superficial and smaller than the ulnar : it extends from the point of bifurcation of the brachial down to the palm of the hand. Sometimes the radial turns backwards, after having reached the lower third of the fore-arm, and remains subcutaneous until it dips between the first and second metacarpal bones; its place in front of the lower part of the radius IS then supplied by the radio-palmar artery or superficiaUs vola;, which is ex- tremely smaU. It IS very common to find the radial artery of one arm larger than that of the other; in one case I found both radials wanting in front of the lower part of the radius. The radial artery is at first directed downwards, and somewhat obliquely outwards, like the brachial, with the direction of which it corresponds; it then descends vertically as far as the lower end of the radius, turns round the an- terior surface and apex of the styloid process, to gain the outer side of the carpus, and passes obliquely downwards and backwards to reach the upper part of the first interosseous space : there it turns abruptly forwards, between the upper extremities of the first and second metacarpal bones, passing between the two origins of the first dorsal interosseous muscle, enters the palm of the hand, and runs almost transversely inwards, to form the deep palmar arch (b. Jig. 211.). The radial artery is frequently tortuous at the lower part of the fore-arm. From the long course and the direction of the radial, it may be di- vided into three portions, corresponding to the fore-arm, the wrist, and the palm of the hand. Th& Jirst portion of the radial artery, viz. that situated in the fore-arm, has the following relations: in front, with the inner border of the supinator longus, which overlaps it, especially above ; in the rest of its extent it lies beneath the fascia. In emaciated subjects the supinator longus is narrow, and this part of the artery is sub-aponeurotic in its whole extent. Behind, it corresponds to the anterior surface of the radius, from which it is separated above by the supinator brevis; lower down by the pronator teres, and by the radial origins of the flexor sublimis and flexor longus pollicis ; still lower by the pronator quadratus, below which it rests directly upon the inferior portion of the radius. The superficial position of the radial artery, and the support afforded it by the bone, are the reasons why it is chosen for ex- amining the pulse. On the inner side, it is in relation with the pronator teres, then with the ten- don of the flexor carpi radialis, along which it runs, and which is on a plane anterior to it; so that the contraction of this muscle, by causing its tendon to project, renders the pulsations of the vessel more diflicult to be felt. On the outer side, it is in relation with the supinator longus, and in the middle part of its course with the radial nerve (the continuation of the musculo-spiral), which is situated at some distance from it, both above and below, and has a separate fibrous sheath. Of the collateral branches of the radial artery in the fore-arm, only three re- quire a special description, viz. the anterior radial recurrent, the anterior carpal branch, and the radio-palmar artery. The anterior radial recurrent artery (,r,fgs. 210, 211.) is given off from the back part, and immediately below the origin of the radial. It is very large in some subjects, indeed as large as the radial itself: it descends a little, and then turning upwards, so as to describe a curve with its convexity directed down- wards, it ascends between the supinator longus and the brachialis anticus, in order to anastomose with that part of the profunda superior which forms the external collateral branch of the elbow. I have seen this recurrent artery arise from the ulnar. From the convexity of the arch described by the radial recurrent, a great