1159 THE SPLANCHNIC NERVES. spinal nerves ; and that tie nerves immediately after having given off these branches are proportionally diminished in size; that having reached the gan- glia the communicating branches divide into filaments, of which some ascend, and may be traced upon the trunk of the sympathetic above the ganglion, and appear to be continuous with the descending filaments derived from the spinal nerve above, whUst the others descend to pass upon the portion of the sym- pathetic trunk below the ganglion ; and lastly, that these white filaments run upon the surface of the sympathetic, and contrast with the grey colour of the central portion of that nerve. The Internal, or Aortic and Splanchnic Branches. The internal branches of the first five or six thoracic ganglia are exclusively intended for the aorta; some of them appear to enter the pulmonary plexus. Some of the internal branches of the last six thoracic ganglia are intended for the aorta, and the remainder, which are the principal, unite to form the splanchnic nerves or nerves of the abdominal viscera. I have never seen any of them pass to the oesophagus. The aortic branches. The aortic branches consist of very small filaments, of which two or three proceed from each ganglion. They accompany the inter- costal arteries, around which they form small plexuses. These filaments are much longer on the right than on the left side, on account of the position of the aorta ; they pass, some in front and others behind that vessel, upon which it soon becomes impossible to follow them. The aortic branch from the fourth thoracic ganglion is the only one of any considerable size; it appears to be shared between the aorta and the pulmonary plexus. A number of these aortic filaments sometimes converge towards certain small knots or ganglia, which are arranged in front or along the sides of the aorta, and give ofi' a number of filaments. The first thoracic ganglion sends some twigs to the cardiac plexuses ; and not unfrequently the inferior cardiac nerve proceeds from this ganglion. Some filaments from the same ganglion are distributed to the lower part of the longus colli muscle. Lobstein (^De Nervo Magno Sympathetica, p. 19.) describes a very delicate filament from this ganglion, which perforates the anterior common vertebral ligament, and enters the substance of one of the vertebrae. A similar filament appears to me to be given oif by all the cervical, thoracic, lumbar, and sacral sympathetic ganglia. The vertebrae, like the other bones, are provided with nerves, which are overlooked in a hasty examination from their excessive tenuity. The splanchnic branches. These constitute the splanchnic nerves, which require a separate description. 77<e Splanchnic Nerves. The splanchnic nerves are divided into the great splanchnic and the small splanchnic or renal. , The grea t splanchnic nerve. The great splanchnic is a white nerve, and has no resemblance to the ganglionic nerves. It is formed in the following man- ner: a thick branch derived from.the sixth and seventh thoracic ganglia sometimes also from the fifth and even from the fourth ganglion (see^o. 302 )' passes downwards and inwards upon the side of the dorsal vertebrae • this branch is joined by a series of three or four smaller branches given off not only from the succeeding thoracic ganglia, but also from the communicating cords between them ; these branches {gg) are parallel to each other, and pass obliquely downwards and inwards. The eleventh and twelfth thoracic ganglia never assist in the formation of the great splanchnic nerve. The branches just mentioned unite on each side to constitute the qreat splanchnic nerves, which have the same relation to the thoracic ganglia that