756 ANGEIOLOGY. It follows, then, that the posterior tibial artery may be compressed and ex- posed in the -whole of the lower third of the leg. The collateral branches of the posterior tibial artery are very small, and do not require any particular description : some of them are posterior, and pass to the soleus and gastrocnemius; others are anterior, and supply the deep- seated muscles, and the periosteum of the tibia. The principal nutritious artery of the tibia, which we have stated to arise from the tibio-peroneal trunk, is often given off by the posterior tibial. Most of the lower internal branches perforate the flexor longus digitorum, turn round over the internal border of the tibia, and ramify in the periosteum and integuments. Lastly, opposite the posterior border of the lower end of the tibia, we find a small transverse branch, which anastomoses with a corresponding branch, already mentioned as arising from the peroneal artery. Beneath the concavity on the mider surface of the os calcis, the posterior tibial gives off before its subdivision several calcaneal branches, some of which ramify upon the internal surface of the os calcis, while others mount up above that bone, and anastomose with twigs from the peroneal; also some articular branches for the tibio-tarsal and astragalo-calcaneal articulations ; and lastly, some branches, which pass up upon the inner border of the tarsus, to anas- tomose with the internal malleolar artery. Fig. 218, T/ie Internal and External Plantar Arteries. The internal and external plantar arteries, the terminal branches of the posterior tibial, commence in the concavity beneath the os calcis, under the internal annular ligament of the tarsus. The internal plantar artery {a, fig. 218.) is generally much smaller than the external; it passes horizontally forwards, along the inner side of the sole of the foot, between the abductor poUicis and the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum ; more anteriorly, it is subjacent to, i. e. farther from the skin than, the flexor brevis digitorum ; it supplies the muscles in question, gives off several ascending and oblique branches to the numerous articulations of the tarsus, anastomoses freely by some internal branches with the internal malleolar and internal tarsal arteries, and ends in different ways. The following is its most common mode of termination: having reached the posterior extremity of the first metatarsal bone, it divides into two branches; one of which is internal, and runs along the outer side of the abductor poUicis, and deviates a little so as to form the internal collateral artery (z) of the great toe ; the other is ex- ternal, varies much in size, and anastomoses (at g') with the common trunk of the collateral arteries of the first and second toe. We may regard as its termi- nating branch a cutaneous artery, which perforates the plantar fascia, and is distributed to the skin and sub- cutaneous cellular tissue on the inner side of the foot. I have seen the internal plantar artery very small, and terminating in the flexor brevis pollicis. The external plantar artery (6) forms the continuation of the posterior tibial in reference to its size; but in certain cases, however, it is not larger than the internal plantar artery. It passes obliquely downwards, outwards, and for- wards, accompanied by the external plantar nerve, under the os calcis, between the flexor brevis digitorum, which is below or superficial to it, and the flexor accessorius, which is above or deeper : as soon as it gains the outer border of the flexor brevis digitorum, upon the aponeurotic septum between this muscle