672 ANGEIOLOGY. vena azygos, and reach the corresponding intercostal space. The left inter- costals enter their proper spaces at once. Both are in relation with the costal pleura and the thoracic ganglia of the great sympathetic nerve, hehind which they are situated. The lower Lntercostals on the left side are covered hy the vena azygos minor. The two lower lntercostals on hoth sides are covered by the pillars of the diaphragm. In their course over the bodies of the ver- tebrse, the lntercostals give oflf numerous nutritious branches, which enter the foramina on the anterior surface of these bones. On reaching the intercostal space, each artery immediately divides into an anterior and a posterior branch. The anterior or intercostal branches are larger than the posterior, and may be regarded as the continuation of the arteries themselves in their original course. They are at first situated in the middle of the intercostal spaces, between the pleura and external intercostal muscles; they then pass between the external and the internal lntercostals, reach the lower border of the rib above them, and are lodged in the grooves found in that situation ; having reached the an- terior third of the intercostal spaces, where they have become extremely small, they quit the grooves, and again become placed in the middle of the spaces ; the superior lntercostals then terminate by anastomosing with the intercostal branches of the internal mammary, and the inferior lntercostals with the epigastric, the phrenic, the lumbar, and the circumflex iliac arteries. During its whole course, each intercostal branch is in relation with the cor- responding intercostal vein and nerve. The inferior intercostal arteries, com- mencing at the fifth, after leaving the intercostal spaces, are lost in the external and internal oblique muscles of the abdomen, which, as we have seen, form, as it were, continuations of the intercostal muscles (see Myology). The intercostal branch furnishes numerous ramusculi to the intercostal muscles, the ribs, the sub-pleural cellular tissue, the muscles which cover the thorax, and even to the integuments. A very small, but tolerably constant branch is given off at an acute angle from the artery, at the moment where it dips between the two sets of lntercostals, gains the upper border of the rib be- low, and is lost in the periosteum and the muscles, after running a variable distance. The posterior or dorsi-spinal branches pass directly backwards between the transverse processes of the vertebrte, on the inner side of the superior costo- transverse ligaments, and each of them immediately divides into two branches; one, the spinal, which enters the inter-vertebral foramen, and again divides into a vertebral branch for the bodies of the vertebrae, and a medullary branch for the coverings of the spinal cord, and for the cord itself, to the distribution of which we shall hereafter return. The second, or dorsal branch, is larger than the spinal, and forms a continuation of the dorso-spinal trunk ; it escapes be- hind between the transverso-spinalis and longissimus dorsi, sends some rami- fications between the longissimus dorsi and sacro-luinbalis, and terminates in the muscles and the skin. Arteries arising frosi the Abdominal Aorta. The branches furnished by the abdominal aorta are parietal, viz. the lumbar and the inferior phrenic arteries; and the visceral branches, viz. the cceliac axis the superior and inferior mesenteric, the spermatic, the renal, and the middle suprarenal arteries. In reference to their place of origin, these arteries may be divided into those which arise from the anterior a.spect of the aorta, viz. the cceliac axis, the superior and inferior mesenteric, and the spermatic ar- teries • and those which arise from its sides, viz. the renal, the middle suprarenal, and the lumbar arteries. The lumbar arteries might be regarded as arising from the back of the aorta.