THE MUSCULO-SPIRAL NERVE. 1059 this groove and is in relation with the profunda humeri artery and vein. Leavmg this groove, opposite the junction of the two upper thirds with the lower third of the humerus, it lies on the external and anterior aspect of the arm descends vertically between the supinator longus and brachialis anticus, and'next between the brachialis anticus and extensor carpi radiaUs longior, crosses the elbow joint (at b) passing in front of the outer condy le of the humerus and the upper extremity of the radius, and then divides into two terminal branches. Collateral Branches of the Musculo-spiral Nerve. During its winding and spiral coui'se along the arm, this nerve gives off a great number of collateral branches in the following order : — Branches given off by the musculo-spiral nerve before it enters the spiral groove. The first is the internal cutaneous branch (f, Jig. 287.) of the musculo-spiral, which is sub-aponeurotic at its commencement, but perforates the fascia, be- comes applied to the skin, and divides into two filaments which pass obliquely backwards and may be traced as far as the olecranon. * There are several considerable branches to the long head of the triceps; the highest of which is recurrent and may be traced as far as the scapular attach- ments of the muscle. A very large descending branch may be traced to the olecranon. There is a branch for the internal head of the triceps, one division of which is rather large, and runs along the inner border of the humerus in front of the muscle, which it does not enter until it approaches the elbow. Branches given off by the musculo-spiral after leaving the spiral groove. These are, the external cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral, a very large branch which perforates the muscular fibres of the triceps and the brachial aponeu- rosis, then lies in immediate contact with the skin of the external region of the arm, passes obliquely backwards and divides into a great number of fila- ments which supply the skin of the posterior region of the fore-arm and may be traced down to the carpus. The branch for the external head of the triceps and for the anconeus, which is remarkable for its length, descends vertically between the external and long heads of the triceps, supplies the former of these, enters the anconeus and may be traced as far as the lower part of that muscle. AU these branches are remarkable for being given off at nearly the same height; that is to say, near the shoulder-joint, and for accompanying the trunk of the musculo-spiral nerve. Branches given off by the musculo-spiral nerve in the fore-arm. These are, the branches for the supinator longus, and those for the extensor carpi radialis longior, which enter the inner surface of the upper part of those muscles. Terminal Branches of the Musculo-spiral Nerve. Reduced to one half, or less, of its original size, by the successive emission of the preceding branches, the musculo-spiral or radial nerve divides in front of the elbow {b,fig. 288.) into two unequal branches, the one deep or muscular. the other superficial or digital. The deep or muscular division of the musculo-spiral nerve, or the posterior interosseous is larger than the superficial division; it immediately gives off a branch which passes verticaUy in front of the extensor carpi radialis brevior, and soon dips into that muscle; the nerve then becomes flattened perforates the supinator brevis, and pursues a very oblique and spiral course around the radius and within that muscle, to which it gives branches (branches for the supinator brevis) : it then emerges from the posterior aspect of this muscle, and immediately divides into a great number of diverging branches some of which are intended for the superficial and the others for the deep laver of muscles on the posterior region of the fore-arm. The branches given to the superficial layer are: those/or the extensor com- * [Anastomosing witli the accessory of the internal cutaneous.] E E 3