1038 NEUROLOGY. There is no longer any internal or musculo-cutaneous branch, the exter- nal branch representing both the muscular and the cutaneous branch.* Immediately after emerging from the intervertebral foramina, these pos- terior branches pass very obliquely downwards and outwards, gain the cellular interval between the sacro-lumbalis and the longissimus dorsi, or rather pass very obliquely through the common mass formed by the union of the sacro- lumbalis and longissimus dorsi, and almost always communicate with each other during their long course through the fleshy fibres : having arrived op- posite the outer border of the latissimus dorsi, or of the common mass, these branches, diminished fully one-third, in consequence of having supplied the posterior spinal muscles, perforate very obliquely the aponeurotic layer formed by the union of the aponeuroses of the latissimus dorsi aud serratus posticus inferior, with those from the internal, oblique, and tranverse muscles of the abdomen, and become subcutaneous; they then divide into some very small internal cutaneous filaments, which are directed inwards upon the side of the spinous processes, and some large external cutaneous filaments, which descend to terminate in the skin of the gluteal region. I would especially notice several large nerves, which, either joined together, or only in contact, descend ver- tically, cross perpendicularly over the crest of the ilium in front of the outer border of the common mass of the lumbar muscles, and become applied to the integuments of the gluteal region upon which they may be traced as far as the great trochanter. The posterior branches of the lumbar nerves. These resemble in their distri- bution the corresponding branches of the four lower dorsal nerves ; they gra- dually diminish in size from above downwards; the fifth is extremely small, and is entirely expended in the common mass of the lumbar muscles. The posterior branches of the sacral nerves. These branches emerge from the posterior sacral intervertebral foramina. It is diflScult to dissect them, because they are extremely small, and penetrate immediately into the muscular mass which occupies the sacral groove ; they moreover decrease in size from above downwards, and are uniformly arranged in the following manner: im- mediately after their exit from the posterior intervertebral foramina, they form anastomotic arches with each other, from which muscular and cutaneous filaments are given off. The former are distributed to the common mass and the glutaeus maximus ; and the latter are intended for the skin of the sacral region, f The Anterior Branches of the Spinal Nerves. The anterior branches of the spinal nerves, which are generally larger than the posterior, are the true continuations of these nerves, and supply the lateral and anterior parts of the trunk, and also the upper aud lower extremities. Such of these branches as are intended for the trunk of the body have an extremely uniform and very simple mode of distribution; to this class be- long the intercostal nerves: those, on the other hand, which are intended for the upper and lower extremities, present, in their distribution, a degree of complexity which depends on that of the parts which they supply. To this class belong the anterior cervical, anterior lumbar, and anterior sacral branches. The three last-named sets of branches almost immediately after their exit from the spinal canal communicate with each other, so as to form interlace- * [The internal branches of the four lower nerves are not absent, but are much reduced in size, do not reach the surface, and are distributed principally to the multifidus spinas: the ex- ternal branches give the cutaneous twigs. (Demonstrations of Anatomy, by G. V. Ellis, of whose labours in reference to the anatomy of the nerves, free use has been made in tins and many of the succeeding notes.)] + Among the cutaneous aiaments which proceed from the arch formed by the posterior branches of the first and second sacral nerves, there is one which passes below the posterior and inferior spinous process of the ilium, is directed vertically downwards between the glutteus maximus and the lesser sacro-sciatic ligament, perforates the glutwus maximus, ana is then reflected outwards in contact with the skin.