NEUROLOGY. 1154 over the surface of the heart, but do not enter its substance, until they have advanced a considerable distance beneath the serous membrane by which the heart is covered. Such is the most general idea that can be given of the cardiac nerves and plexuses, which afford one example of the most remarkable of the median anastomoses. Scarpa first described and figured them correctly in his plates, ■which will always be models for anatomical drawings. No nerves present so many varieties, in number, size, and origin, as the cardiac nerves ; and on this subject especially, the want of a work upon anatomical varieties is especially felt. For my part, I declare that I have never found the cardiac nerves in my dissections as they are represented in Scarpa's magnificent plates, which have served as the type for aU descriptions. I have minutely described the cardiac nerves in eight different subjects; these eight descriptions present very great differences, at least untU one arrives at the account of the cardiac plexuses ; the ultimate distribution of the nerves of the heart appeared to be the same in all these subjects. All the cardiac nerves are gre}', but they are not all soft, as declared by Scarpa, who called them nervi molles. Sometimes the right, and sometimes the left cardiac nerves are the larger ; the nerves of the two sides are inversely pro- portioned to each other in this respect, and there is evidently a mutual de- pendence between them. In one case, in which the middle and inferior cardiac nerves of the right side were wanting, and the superior cardiac nerve very small, their places were supplied by some large branches from the right re- current nerve, and by the left cardiac nerves, which were largely developed. Anatomists follow Scarpa, in describing three cardiac nerves on each side: a superior, named by him the superficial cardiac nerve, which is derived from the superior cervical ganglion ; a middle, called by him the great or deep car- diac nerve, which arises from the middle cervical ganglion ; and an inferior, or small cardiac nerve, proceeding from the inferior cervical ganglion. Although this is the usual arrangement, it is often impossible to distinguish three nerves, in consequence of the anatomical varieties which I have already mentioned. There is frequently no middle cardiac nerve properly so called ; at other times there is no inferior cardiac nerve, or rather they are both in a rudimentary state ; lastly, the superior cardiac nerve, if not entirely wanting, may be ex- tremely small, and may join the middle cardiac nerve. Sometimes all the car- diac nerves of one side unite into a single trunk, or else into a plexus situ- ated behind the subclavian artery, upon the side of the trachea ; the recurrent nerve assists in forming this plexus, from which three, four, or more branches are given off to be distributed to the heart in the usual manner. One of the most important points in the history of the cardiac nerves is their sort of fusion with the pneumogastric, which is so intimate that the cardiac branches of the pneumogastric, and those which come from the ganglia, form a single system. There is a similar fusion between the superior, middle, and inferior cardiac nerves of each side, and between the nerves of the two sides. The recurrent nerve, in particular, appears sometunes to be distributed equally to the larynx and the heart, so large and numerous are the cardiac branches given off from it; it will hereafter be seen that there is an equally intimate connexion between the pneumogastric nerve and the solar plexus. I shall first describe in detail the right cardiac nerves, and shall then briefly point out the differences between them and the left cardiac nerves. The Right Cardiac Nerves. The superior cardiac nerve. Its origin is very variable. Most commonly, it arises from the internal division of the bifurcated lower extremity of the supe- rior cervical ganglion, the cord of communication between the superior and the next cervical ganglion forming the external division. At other times, it arises from the communicating cord. In a great number of cases it has several origins, being formed by two or three very small filaments, which come