■1 660 ANGEIOLOGY, Origin of the Arteries. The common origin * of the arterial system is the aorta, which arises from the left ventricle of the heart in the manner already indicated (see The Heakt); but the origins of the other arteries take place according to certain very general laws : thus, two arteries of equal size may arise from the extremity of a larger artery, and appear to result from the bifurcation of that vessel; ar- teries arising in this manner might be called terminal arteries. Other arteries arise from some point in the circumference of a larger vessel; these may be termed collateral arteries. The terminal arteries almost always arise so as to form a bifurcation at an acute angle ; the dichotomous division or bifurcation is the most common mode of division. The acute angle is evidently favourable to the passage of the blood, which in the first place maintains nearly the primitive direction in which it was impelled, and secondly is easily divided into two columns by the projecting crest at the angle of division. The collateral arteries very often ai'ise at an acute angle, but sometimes at a right or even at an obtuse angle. The two latter modes, especially the last, are unfavourable to the flow of the blood. It must however be remarked, that many of the arteries which foUow a retrograde course in reference to the trunk from which they are derived, nevertheless arise at an acute angle. The caliber of the terminal arteries is very nearly proportional to that of the artery from which they are given off, but the collateral arteries bear no proportion to the caliber of their trunks. We shall see a remarkable example of this in the spermatic arteries, as compared with the aorta from which they arise. It should also be observed, that the caliber of a principal trunk does not diminish in proportion to the branches which it supplies : in proof of this, observe the aorta as it enters the abdomen, and just before its division into the common iliac. Anatomical Varieties of the Arteries. No system of organs is more subject to anatomical varieties than the ar- teries. These varieties sometimes affect their origin only, sometimes their course, but hardly ever their termination. The study of these varieties is of great importance in surgery, both in reference to the ligature of arteries, and also to operations performed in their vicinity, "f Course of the Arteries. The principal arteries generally follow the direction of the axis of the limbs. The secondary, tertiary, and further divisions pursue the most varied courses, subject to no particular rule. The principal arteries are usually straight; but they present shght curves, which render the artery longer than the corresponding limb, and hence tend to prevent laceration dm-ing the movement of extension, when the curves merely become obliterated and the vessel undergoes no injurious stretchmg. The use of these curves in the arteries may be proved by comparmg the opposite conditions of the vessels during extension and flexion of the upper and lower extremities. fngcntourTheo^y t'e^'d^o "tho"o\tr7rrto Pr^ that devclopement proceeds from the extre- ""'flFT^^'TiXmkion on the varieties in the distribution of the arteries the reader is reLred to H.^ ler Icone. Anatomic^, 175(5; Murray, B«cr,;) » ^r«fn«r««^Jc. l-p-SS; BTrcl-iy, Dcscriplion the Arteries, SfC. '818 ; .T'C''™'"""-/"f'''l^'''^^^^^^^^^^^ and to 11. Quain's Anatomy ofl/ie Arteries, Ssc. «iU. drawuigs by J. Machsc. IMO, 1841.J 1