NEUROLOGY. 880 The uses of the central foramen and the yellow spot are not known. The yellow spot does not exist in the foetus.* The Humours of the Eye. The media through which the light passes in the eye, besides the trans- parent cornea already described, are the vitreous body, the crystalline lens, and the aqueous humour. The Vitreous or Hyaloid Body. The vitreous or hyaloid body (v. Jigs. 247, 248.) (from !la\os, glass), so called from its resemblance to glass, is an imperfectly spheroidal, and quite trans- parent mass, which occupies the posterior three-fourths (v, fig. 241.) of the globe of the eye; it is covered immediately by the retina (^v, fig. 245.), which is simply in contact with it, and indirectly by the other coats of the back part of the eye, which are accurately moulded upon it. It presents a slight de- pression in front, for the reception of the posterior surface of the crystalline lens (/). The vitreous body and the crystalline lens together very nearly re- semble in form the entire globe of the eye, the projection of the crystalline lens representing the prominence of the cornea (compare ^gi*. 241. and 245.). The vitreous body is composed of a liquid, named the vitreous humour j, and of the hyaloid membrane. The hyaloid membrane (h,fig. 241.), which was first discovered by Fallopius, can be easily demonstrated by puncturing the vitreous body, and allowing the vitreous humour to escape. If it be then dipped in diluted nitric acid, the membrane will become opaque, and easily distinguishable. This membrane not only forms a general investment or capsule for the vitreous body, but gives off lamellar prolongations from its internal surface, which separate the vitreous humour into an irregular number of compartments, or cells. The existence of these cells can be easily proved by moving the vitreous body between the fingers: and if this body be frozen, their shape is shown by that of the masses of ice which may be taken from them. It is generally admitted that all these cells communicate with each other; because, when one-of them only is punctured, all the vitreous humour will gra- dually escape. Still I have several times observed that the eye did not collapse when a part of the vitreous body had escaped in the operation for extracting a cataract; this, however, might have depended upon any further escape being opposed by the approximation of the lips of the incision. The manner in which the hyaloid membrane is arranged with reference to the crystalline lens, is still a disputed point. It is generaUy admitted that p. about a line from the margin of the crystalline lens, 5-,'^'" ■ the hj'aloid membrane divides into two layers, one of which passes behind (h,fig.2i\.), and the other in front of the lens. The three-sided interval (s s) which exists all round the crystalline lens, and which has been described by Fran9ois Petit, under the name of canal godronne, is formed between these two layers and the lens. This circular canal, or canal of Petit, can be very easily shown by blowing air into it (as in p, fig. 247.); it is then seen to be constricted at interva' * [From recent researches, especially those of Valentin and Hanover, the following appears to be the minute structure of the retina: — 1. The membrane of Jacob consists of minute cylin- drical or prismatic bodies, placed closely together, and perpendicularly to the surface of the membrane ; among these are somewhat larger bodies, " coni gemini," which might be com- pared in shape to two cylinders applied to each other lengthwise. Both kinds of bodies are attached by one extremity to the inner surface of the choroid, being received into exceedingly minute sheaths, which rise from the surface of the pigment cells. 2. The fil.iments of the optic nerve spread out on the inner surface of this structure, and according to Valentm, nave a plexiform arrangement, but their mode of termination seems doubtful. This nefvous ex- pansion is covered on its outer and also on its inner surface by a layer of ganglionic globules. J t [The vitreous humour, according to Berzclius, contains 98-4 per cent, of water; its solia matter consists of albumen, extractive matter, and chloride of sodium.]