THE HEART. 651 which is somewhat less than that of its corresponding artery, so that there are Tome very distinct folds or wrinkles produced. These two zones are exactly aUke in form, but differ somewhat in strength, the aortic being stronger than the puhnonary. From these zones are given off three very thm b^t very stron- prolongations, which occupy the angular intervals formed by the in- dented border by which the aorta and pulmonary artery commence ; and three other prolongations extend into the substance of the sigmoid valves. These prolongations form very distinct fibrous bundles in the sigmoid valve of * ^Bdative position of the orifices of the ventricles (see fig. 195.). The two auriculo-ventricular orifices are situated upon the same plane, posterior to the other orifices, and approach each other at their middle. The long diameters of these two orifices are at right angles to each other : thus the long diameter of the right auriculo-ventricular orifice is directed from before backwards, whUst that of the left orifice is directed transversely. In the angular interval left between these two orifices in front, the aortic opening (e) is closely united to them both ; so that the posterior half of the circumference of the aortic zone is blended with both auriculo-ventricular zones. At the point of junction between them, we find a cartilaginous, and m the larger animals a bony, arch, which was described by the ancients under the name of the bone of the heart: in this situation, also, we frequently find the ossiform concretions of the orifices. Lastly, upon a plane in front and on the left of the aortic opening, and about five or six lines above it, is situated the orifice (/) of the pulmonary artery. The orifice of the aorta is directed towards the right side, that of the pul- monary artery towards the left, so that these two vessels cross each other, so as to represent the letter X. It follows, therefore, that the pulmonary orifice is separated from the right auriculo-ventricular opening by the orifice of the aorta. In examining these openings we observe, that the plane of the auriculo- ventricular orifices is directed obliquely backwards and downwards: this explains the difference in the heights of the ventricles before and behind. We also notice the reflection or turning inwards of the base of each ventricle (9 a, p b) upon itself, so as to form a circular groove or trench on the inner surface of its cavity, running entirely round the margin of the corresponding auriculo- ventricular orifice. T/ie Muscular Fibres of the Heart. The Muscular Fibres of the Ventricles. Dissection. The muscular fibres of the heart may sometimes be traced without any preparation; but, generally speaking, either commencing putre- faction, maceration in vinegar, or still better hardening and separation of the fibres by means of alcohol, and especially by boiling, are necessary for this purpose. This being done, remove first the outer membrane, and then the different muscular layers one by one, taking care to follow the fibres from their origin to their termination. The most general formula which can be given respecting the structure of the ventricles is, that this portion of the heart is composed of two muscular sacs, contained within a third, which is common to both ventricles. We should add, that, when the superficial or common fibres arrive at the apex of the heart, they turn up so as to pass into the interior of the ventricles at that point, and form the deep fibres of these two cavities, so that the proper fibres of each ventricle are situated between the direct and the reflected portion of the common fibres. We shall now enter into some details regarding these fibres.