SECTIONS OF THE CEREBELLUM. 961 Again : the fibrous layer, which forms the floor of the fourth ventricle, is entire in the dog and sheep ; I have found it in the same condition five or six times in the human subject; and if it be objected that, in this case, there might have been an accidental obliteration of the opening, I could answer that there was no trace of disease, either in the cerebro-spinal axis, or in the mem- branes. . , , ,1 ■ 1 I may also mention that, in several cases of chronic hydrocephalus, several pounds of fluid were found in the ventricles, and none whatever in the sub- arachnoid space. Lastly : in the brains of several infants, who had died with all the symptoms of acute ventricular hydrocephalus, I have found the lateral ventricles very large but empty; and in these cases it has occurred to me that the fibrous layer might have been perforated opposite the inferior angle of the fourth ventricle, and have thus allowed the fluid to escape, which, in the greater number of cases, is retained by this layer within the ventricular cavity. Such are the facts which appear to me to militate against the idea of the existence of an opening in the floor of the fourth ventricle : but, on the other hand, if we consider that, in an immense majority of instances, whatever care may be taken in removing the brain from the cranium, we always find this opening both in the foetus and in the adult; that in apoplectic effusions into the ventricles, we always find some bloody serum in the sub-arachnoid space; and that if a coloured fluid be injected into the ventricles of the cerebrum, or iuto the sub-arachnoid space around the cord, it will in either case pass freely from one into the other, we shall be led to conclude that there is a regular communication between the cavity of the ventricles and the sub-arachnoid space, and that the orifice just described is the channel of communication between them.* Tlie Choroid Plexuses of the Fourth Ventricle. The choroid plexuses of the fourth ventricle are two in number ; they com- mence one on each side, by a very slender extremity, upon the anterior surface of the sort of fibrous tongue which is attached to the inferior vermis ; from this point they pass in a diverging course upwards, are then inclined out- wards, turn round the sides of the median eminence of the fourth ventricle, pass horizontally outwards behind the restiform bodies, and then behind the fibrous layer of the corresponding pneumogastric nerve, where they become considerably enlarged, and at length terminate upon the sub-peduncular lobes. The inner surface of the fourth ventricle is smooth, in consequence of being lined by a membrane resembling a serous membrane, which is much stronger over the posterior surface of the medulla oblongata than at any other point. Sections of the Cerebellum. On cutting through the cerebellum, it is found to be composed {see figs. 273, 274.) of two substances, an external cortical or greij substance, and a centralor medullary substance, which is white; the grey substance is soft, and is abnost always torn off with the membranes, however slightly the cerebellum may be altered by decomposition. The white substance is compact, and resists a tolerably firm pressure.f Between the grey and white substances there is seen, upon a section of the cerebeUum, a narrow yellowish band or streak, which depends on the existence of a layer of a yellow substance, of much greater firmness than the grey matter, and strongly adherent to the white substance. By laceration the grey matter is destroyed, and this yellow layer is exposed. There are, therefore, three substances in the cerebeUum—the grey, the yellow, and the white. I would » See note on the sub-arachnoid space (p. 920 ) t For an account of the minute structure of these substances, see note, p. 935. Y 2