698 ANGEIOLOGY. cranium, before entering the carotid canal, it becomes horizontal, and then vertical and ascending. In traversing the carotid canal, It follows the angular course of that passage; in the cavernous sinus, it passes directly forwards and upwards, like the ca- rotid groove; at other times it describes two distinct curves; lastly, on the inside of the anterior clinoid process, it is reflected directly upwards and a little backwards. The double curvature which it describes in traversing the carotid canal and the cavernous sinus, has been well compared to the Roman letter S. The numerous inflexions of the internal carotid form one of the most decided arguments in favour of the opinion that the use of these windings is to retard the passage of the blood. Relations; from its origin to the base of the cranium. At its origin, the in- ternal carotid is situated as superficially as the termination of the common carotid, and is crossed by the hypoglossal nerve and the occipital artery, it soon passes behind the external carotid, and becomes deeper and deeper. Protected by its position in the triangular space, which is bounded on the inside by the pharynx, and on the outside by the ramus of the lower jaw, it rests behind upon the vertebral column, from which it is separated by the prajvertebral muscles and aponeurosis : it is in relation in front and to the outer side with the stylo-glossus and stylo-pharyngeus muscles, which pass between it and the external carotid; on the inside, with the pharynx ; and on the out- side and behind, with the internal jugular vein. The ascending pharyngeal artery is, moreover, in relation with it behind, and the great sympathetic nerve on the inside: the pneumogastric, glosso-pharyngeal, and hypoglossal nerves, are situated behind the internal carotid at their exit from the cranium, but soon get to its outer side, between it and the internal jugular vein. The relation of the artery with the external surface of the pharynx explains how this vessel may be wounded from the interior of that cavity. Sometimes one of its curves approaches the region of the tonsU; and this may, perhaps, have been the case, when the artery has been wounded by an instrument di- rected transversely outwards and carried into the tonisLl, either to open an abscess or to excise the gland. In the carotid canal, the artery is in relation with the nervous filaments ascending from the superior cervical ganglion. A very thin fibrous lamina, a prolongation of the dura mater, separates the vessel from the bony walls of the canal. Its proximity to the internal ear whilst traversing the petrous portion of the temporal bone, is probably the cause of the arterial pulsations which are heard in certain cases. In the cavernous sinus, the artery is applied against the inner wall of that cavity, and is therefore placed on the inner side of the nerves which pass through the sinus, and more particularly of the sixth pair ; it is said that the artery is not bathed in the blood contained in the sinus, but is protected from it by a very thin layer of membrane, continuous with the internal coat of the veins. However careful I may have been, I have never succeeded in separat- ing this membrane. On the inner side of the anterior clLnoid process, the artery is upon the outer side of the optic nerve, and at the point where it emerges from the dura mater, above the anterior clinoid process, it is received in a sheath formed by the arachnoid. Branches of the internal carotid. On the outside of the cranium, it gives off no branch, excepting in afew cases where it furnishes the ascending pharjTigeal, or, rather, only a supplementary pharyngeal branch ; and lastly, when it gives off the occipital. In the carotid canal it sends a twig into the cavity of the tympanum by a special opening. In the cavernous sinus it furnishes several small branches {arterice receptaculi), some of which are reticulated, and dis- tributed to that portion of the dura mater which lines the basilar surface of the occipital bone, and to the walls of the inferior petrosal sinus; whilst others ramify upon the pituitary body, the fifth pair of nerves, and the adjacent por-