883 THE CRYSTALLINE LENS AND ITS CAPSULE. R 3 lastly it is hard in the centre which is called the nucleus, and closely resemhles a mass of gum arable. The most superficial and fluid layers constitute the '''The^Yubstance of the crystalline lens consists of concentric layers (6 c,fig. J ^ 249.)-which can be very ■ —~ easily demonstrated, even without any pre- vious preparation, but are rendered most dis- tinct by boiling, or im- mersion in a diluted acid. The crystalline lens then separates into superimposed laminae or scales, like the bulb of the onion. The different degrees of consistence observed in the substance of the lens do not depend upon differences in nature, but upon mere modifications. When hardened by an acid, the structure of the lens is exactly the same throughout: even the liquor Morgagni appears to become laminated. Each of these concentric laminae is itself composed of radiated fibres (a, Jig. 249.) which can be readily seen without dissection, by placing one of them upon a black surface and examining it through a lens, or even by a strong light. Lastly, the crystalline lens, when boiled or submitted to the action of an acid, spUts into three, four, or even a greater number of triangular segments (a b), all of which unite by their summits at the centre of the lens, so that its anterior and posterior surfaces have a stellate appearance.* Pathologists have success- fully applied this anatomical fact to the explanation of the stellate forms of cataract in which the opacity branches out in three or more directions. What is the nature of the crystalline lens ? Is it the product of a secretion ? or is it an organised structure ? M. Duges has recently supported by his au- thority and by additional facts the opinion of Dr. Young, who believed that the crystjdline lens is not only an active organised structure, supplied with vessels and veins, but that it is even muscular and possessed of contractility, so as to be able of itself to increase or diminish its curvatures and its density, thus en- dowing the eye with the power of adjusting itself to the different distances of the objects to be seen. The substance of the laminae of the crystalline lens has indeed a linear structure; but it does not at all resemble muscular tissue, either in its consistence, or in its regularly stratified character. I conceive, therefore, that I am warranted in regarding the superimposed layers of the crystalline lens as the solidified product of a secretion formed by its capsule, f The capsitle of the crystalline lens (t. Jig. 241.) is accurately fitted to the lens itself; in the healthy state it is transparent, but may become opaque, and thus constitute a membranous or capsular cataract. Its external surface is free in front, where it is bathed by the aqueous hu- mour : it is merely in contact with the hyaloid membrane behind, but its cir- Fig. 250. ♦ See note tTifrd. rKP"}^^ indicating the divisions between the triangular segments ot the lens (a,/g. 249.) are called ii?p«a; the septa of the anterior sur- tace are placed opposite the intervals between the septa of the posterior surface. The fibres of which the laminsE are composed have a linear arrangement, and, as discovered by Sir D. Brewster, are fitted into each other by indented margins (Jig. 250.). Schwann has shown that these nores are developed from rounded nucleated cells, which become elon- gated mto fibres, the margins of which subsequently become dentated • tne lens, therefore, resembles some other non-vascular parts (as the horny tissues) In its mode of growth. It consists, according to Berze- ims, ot 58-0 per cent, of water, 3-7 of extractive and salts, 2-4 of mem- ''"le peculiar substance, which, except in its colour, re- sembles the colouring matter of the blood.] '