898 NEUROLOGY. mternal and somewhat posterior to it. Its lower portion is bent into a hook the concavity of which is turned inwards ; and at its point is formed a sort oUen- ticular and distinctly defined tubercle (^4, fig. 256.; i,fig. 257.), which has been regarded as a separate bone, and named the os orbiculare, or os lenticulare; it appears to me to be merely a dependence of the incus, with which I have 'al- ways found it united, even in the foetus. The stapes. The stapes (3, fig. 256.), which is shaped like a stirrup, extends horizontaUy from the extremity of the long process of the incus to the fenestra ovalis (see fig. 257.), and is situated upon a lower plane than the rest of the small bones of the ear. Its head presents a small articular cavity, for the re- ception of the orbicular tubercle of the incus. Its base (n) is directed inwards, and consists of a thin plate exactly corresponding to the fenestra ovalis, which is rather accurately filled up by it, and to draw it away from which a slight force is necessary, so that it has a greater tendency to fall into the vestibule than into the cavity of the tympanum. The slight obliquity of the long di- ameter of the fenestra ovalis causes an inclination of the stapes in the same di- rection. Of its two crura, or branches (fig. 256.), the anterior is the shorter and straighter. Upon those surfaces of the crura which are turned towards each other there is found a groove, which appears to indicate the existence of a membrane stretched between the crura. I have found the stapes very small, and, as it were, atrophied. In one case, the two crura of the stapes were united together. Muscles belonging to the Ossicula of the Ear. Most modem anatomists agree with Soemmerring in admitting four muscles for the ossicula of the ear, viz. three belonging to the malleus, and one to the stapes. The incus has no proper muscle, because it is merely an inter- mediate bone between the malleus and the stapes. It is certain, however, that only one of these muscles has been actually demonstrated, viz. the internal muscle of the malleus; but it is so easy to fall into error when examining such minute objects, that I feel bound to suspend my judgment as to the existence or non-existence of the other muscles. The internal muscle of the malleus, or tensor membrana tympani of Soemmerring (e, fig. 251.), is an elongated, fusiform muscle, contained within the bony canal formed in the retreating angle of the temporal bone, above the Eus- tachian tube, with which it exactly corresponds in direction. It arises from the cartilaginous portion of the tube, from the adjacent part of the sphenoid bone, behind the spinous foramen, and from the bony canal which forms its sheath. The fleshy fibres converge around a tendon, which appears from among them, before it passes out from the bony canal. This tendon is reflected at a right angle, like the canal in which it is contained, and then passes di- rectly outwards, to be inserted into the anterior and superior part of the handle of the malleus, below the processus gracilis of Raw. The muscularity of the band or cord named the anterior muscle or ligament of the malleus, or the great external muscle of Meckel, is doubted by a great number both of present and former anatomists.* I have never seen any thing more than a fibrous cord, which commenced at the tip of the processus gracilis of the malleus, traversed the glenoid fissure, was reinforced by other fibres arising from that fissure, and became continuous with a fibrous layer arising from the spinous process of the sphenoid bone, and generally regarded as the internal lateral ligament of the temporo-maxillary articulation. The same remarks wUl also apply to the sviall external muscle of the malleus, or small muscle of the malleus of Casserius. This muscle is figured by • " Fuere autem et dudum et niiper clari viri qui de veris hujus musculi fibris carneis dubi- tarunt, cum niultam quidem membranam a periosteo propagatam, sulcum maxillre replen viderent, et processui longissimo circiimnasci, ca;terum in eo carne.nm naturam non dcprenen- dercnt. Nequc raea experimenta rem expediunt. Musculum quoties voliii, ostciwi, imm veras Bbras viderem, plerumque dubius hnesi." (Hallcr, torn. v. lib. xv. p. 218.)