THE SUPERIOR PEDtlNCLES OF THE CEREBELLUM. 949 X 4 aboTe ^ith the upper portion (A ifg, Jig. 272.) of the isthmus of the ence- ^'^Their white fasciculi are slightly divergent, and are often intersected at right angles by certain white tracts, some of which emerge from the testes and the valve of Vieussens, whUst others proceed from the internal surfaces of the peduncles themselves. This arrangement GaU and Spurzheim have named the transverse interlacement of the great fibrous bimdles (see fig. 272.). Owing to the oblique and diverging direction of the cerebral peduncles there is left between them a triangular interpeduncular space (between r and t, fig. 276.), which is occupied in front by the corpora mammillaria or albicantia (z) and the tuber cinereum (y), and in which is observed behind two white tri- anoTiIar bundles, separated from the peduncles by a blackish line. We shall see that these interpeduncular bundles are merely the under-surface of the bundles of reinforcement of the meduUa oblongata, or the " faisceaux inno- mines"(/,^5'.274.). The Superior Peduncles of the Cerebellum and the Valve of Vieussens. The superior peduncles of the cerebellum (r, figs. 271, 272. 280.) are more commonly known as the processus cerebelli ad testes, a name given to them by Pourfour Dupetit. I should observe, however, that this name sanctions an anatomical error; for the superior peduncles of the cerebellum do not go to the testes at all, but pass under them, and are covered by the corresponding lateral triangular bundle of the isthmus; they should rather be called processus cerebelli ad cerebrum (Drelincourt). The inferior peduncles of the cerebellum consist of two lamellae, which arise from the interior of the cerebellum, one on each side of the median line, pass upwards and forwards parallel to each other, and appear to be continuous with the testes. Their upper convex surface is covered by the cerebellum (see fig. 280.), and is separated from it by a double layer of the pia mater. Their inferior surface is free, and assists in forming the upper wall of the aqueduct of Sylvius. Their external borders are each separated from the pons by a furrow, which we have already described under the name of lateral furrow of the isthmus. Their internal borders are connected together by means of the valve of Vieussens, which is distinguished by its colour from the peduncles. Their inferior extremities pass deeply into the central white substance of the cerebellum. The valve of Vieussens (valvula magna cerebri, I, fig. 271.; v,fig. 280.; ^to w, fig. 282.) is a thin semi-transparent lamina, which occupies the interval between the two superior peduncles of the cerebellum; it is the velum me- dullare or velum interjectum of Haller. Its posterior surface is concave, and is in relation above with the superior vermiform process ; in its lower portion it adheres to the transversely notched imperfect lamella (linguetta laminosa, Malacarne), in which the superior vermis ends. The median line of this posterior surface is marked by a line (^^.271.), which Rolando considers as the trace of the line of junction between the two lammae, of which, according to him, the valve consists. The anterior surface is convex, and forms the posterior waU of the aqueduct of Sylvius (leading from v to I, fig. 282.). _ The borders of the valve are not only in juxtaposition with the correspond- ing borders of the superior peduncles of the cerebellum, hut appear to be continuous with them. The superior extremity is narrow, and presents a transverse band, which may be regarded as the commissure of the superior peduncles of the cerebellum and of the fourth pair of nerves.