NEUROLOGY. 954 Comparative Anatomy of the Isthmus. The pons Varolii and middle peduncles of the cerebellum exist only in the human subject and in mammalia generally; these structures, -which may he regarded as forming the commissure of the cerebellum, are developed exactly in proportion to the size of the lateral lobes of that organ; so that they attain their utmost developement in the human subject, and are smallest in rodentia. The pons and cerebellar peduncles do not exist in the remaining three classes of vertebrata (birds, reptUes, and fishes), because those animals have no lateral lobes of the cerebellum. The tubercula quadrigemina are less developed in man than in the lower animals. It may even be said, that the developement of these tubercles is in- versely in proportion to that of the lateral lobes of the cerebellum and the hemispheres of the cerebrum. The anterior tubercles are a little larger than the posterior in the human subject: in the ruminants, solipeds, and rodentia, on the contrary, the anterior tubercles are twice or three times as large as the posterior. In the carnivora the posterior are somewhat larger than the anterior. They are covered by the cerebrum in the human subject and the highest orders of mammalia, but are in a great measure exposed iu the rodentia and cheiroptera. In birds, reptiles, and fishes, the tubercles are only two in number (the tubercula bigemina), and attain their maximum developement: sometimes they are even larger than the cerebral hemispheres; they are hollow, and form true lobes, which are called the optic lobes, because in fact the optic nerves arise exclusively from them. In birds, the optic lobes are situated at each side of the base of the cerebrum. The optic lobes of birds are not the thalami optici, as was at first believed : in this class of animals the optic thalami are thrown forwards. In reptiles, the tubercula quadrigemina consist, as in birds, of two large, ovoid, and contiguous lobes. la. fishes, it is extremely difficult to determine what are the tubercula quadrigemina; so much so, indeed, that the lobes of which they are composed, have been taken sometimes for the cerebral hemispheres, and sometimes for the optic thalami. M. Arsaky (De Pisciuvi Cerebro) has successfully refuted both of these errors. THE CEREBELLUM. General description.—External characters and confirmation—farrows, lobules, lamina, and lamellce. — Internal conformation — the fourth Ventricle, its fibrous layers, its inferior orifice, and its choroid plexus. — Sections of the cerebellum, vertical and horizontal—Examination by means of water, and of the hardened cerebellum. —General view of the organ.—Developement — Comparative anatomy. The cerebellum (^rapeyKecpaMs, Aristotle; II, fig. 276.; hh, fig. 280.), or little brain is that part of the encephalon which occupies the right and left mtenor occipital fossaj. It exists in all animals which have a cerebrum and spmal cord, and therefore in all the vertebrata. Cases of congenital absence of the cerebellum are extremely rare.* Thoueh for a long time neglected, the anatomical exammation of the cere- beUuS was commenced with considerable talent by Petit of Na^ur (Ze«r. 7!mM6decin des mpitaux du Roi. Namur, 1710) and Malacame iEncefalo- * Vide Anat. ratliol. avec fig. for a case of absence of the cerebellum.