NEUROLOGY. 932 and, in fact several anatomists have not only admitted such an interlacement but have expressly stated that it was produced by the spinal nerves them- selves. * According to Gall and Spurzheim, the bundles of which this commissure consists are directed transversely, and are fitted into each other like the molar teeth; but I repeat, that the most careful examination demonstrates nothing in the commissure, besides a white lamella, perforated for the transmission of bloodvessels. The posterior median groove. The posterior median groove or fissure (a) not only exists, but is much deeper than the anterior one. Its narrowness, and the tenuity of the membranous prolongation which enters it, have alone concealed it from the observation of anatomists; there is no white band analogous to that of the anterior median fissure at the bottom of this fissure, but the grey substance of the commissure is all that is seen. As there are two median furrows, it follows that there are really two dis- tinct spinal cords, connected together by an extremely thin band or commis- sure. The furrows opposite the posterior roots of the nerves, or the posterior lateral furrows. Immediately to the outer side of the line of origin of the posterior roots of the spinal nerves, there is a greyish line or furrow (i), which extends the whole length of the cord. If a stream of water be allowed to fall upon this line, the continuity of the cord is soon destroyed, and the water penetrates to the centre of the organ. But there are no true fissures in these situations, analogous to the anterior and posterior median furrows. The separation is effected by the destruction of the grey substance, a prolongation of which reaches to the surface of the cord opposite these points. We shall, nevertheless, suppose these furrows to exist in accordance with the views of Soemmerring and Rolando, who divided each half of the spinal cord into two columns—^posterior column, consisting of that portion (e) which is comprised between the posterior median furrow (a) and the posterior roots (i), and an antero-lateral column, including all that portion {d) which is situated between the anterior median furrow (/) and the supposed posterior lateral furrow (i). We must also admit with Haller, Chaussier, Gall, and Rolando, a third column on each side ; these may be called ihe posterior median columns, and are continuous with the projecting bun- dles which form the borders of the calamus scriptorius. and which are each limited externally by a slight groove. These small and exceedingly narrow columns, the existence of which is admitted by most anatomists in the cer- vical region only, are prolonged through the whole extent of the spinal cord. Is there an anterior lateral furrow ? If the line on the outer side of the at- tachment of the anterior roots of the spinal nerves be closely examined, the appearance of a furrow is seen along the whole of the cord. But if water be allowed to fall upon that line, it is found that there is no fissure or furrow pro- perly so called, and that the jet of water has no more effect upon this hue than on the adjoining parts; we are therefore led to reject, with Rolando, both these anterior lateral furrows and the lateral tracts described by Chaus- sier, which would be bounded in front by the furrow of the anterior roots, and behind by that of the posterior roots; these lateral tracts have, nevertheless, become celebrated, since so much importance has been attached to them by Sir C. BeU and Bellingeri as the lateral columns of the spinal cord. From what has been stated above, it follows, that each half of the cord is composed of two columns, a posterior and an antero-lateral, and as an ap- pendage to the posterior column, of a small column, which forms the border oi the posterior median furrows. * There is no physiological 8r pathological fact which demonstrates the crossins cflcct of lesions of the spinal cord.