692 ANGEIOLOGY. branches of the transversalis faciei may be traced in one direction as far as the orbicularis palpebrarum, and in another into the levator proprius labii superi- oris. The anastomotic branches establish an intimate communication between the temporal artery and the buccal, infra-orbital, and facial arteries. A second anterior branch of the temporal artery also requires special notice, viz. the orbital, which is given off above the zygomatic arch, passes from behind forwards, between the superficial and deep layers of the temporal fascia, then behind the orbicularis muscle, which it supplies, as weU as the corresponding skin, and anastomoses with the superior palpebral branch of the ophthalmic. This artery is very variable in regard to size. I have seen it very large and reflected upwards, between the frontalis muscle and the skin, parallel to the supra-orbital branch of the ophthalmic, and capable of being followed as far as the parietal region. From the bend which it forms by turning upwards, it gives off a pal- pebral branch, which completes the superior palpebral arch, and also a branch which anastomoses with the supra-orbital. This orbital branch of the temporal does not exist in all subjects ; the branches which it furnishes are then given off directly from the temporal. The posterior branches consist of the anterior auriculars (w), which are irregular as to number; the lower branches are distributed to the lobule, the middle ones to the external auditory meatus, and the upper branches to the highest part of the pinna. The internal branch is the middle deep or sub-aponeurotic temporal artery ; it arises from the temporal above, sometimes on a level with the zygoma, per- forates the fascia, and is distributed to the temporal muscle, anastomosing with the anterior and posterior deep temporal branches derived from the internal maxillary. Terminal branches. Of the two branches into which the temporal artery divides, the anterior or frontal (jf) passes forwards and upwards towards the frontal region, upon which it ramifies, anastomosing with the branches of the frontal and supra-orbital arteries, and with the temporal of the opposite side. This branch is divided in the operation of arteriotomy. The posterior or parietal branch (i/) is larger than the anterior; it passes upwards and ramifies upon the parietal bone, anastomosing with the auricular and occipital arteries, with the frontal branch of the temporal, and with the temporal of the opposite side. It is sometimes derived from the auricular artery. T7ie Internal Maxillary Artery. Dissection. Saw through the zygomatic arch in two places, and turn it downwards together with the masseter muscle, taking care not to tear the masseteric artery. Dissect the temporal muscle, and saw through the coronoid process of the inferior maxilla. Saw through the cranium circularly, and remove the brain, which may be put into diluted nitric acid or alcohol, to be hardened for the subsequent dissection of the cerebral arteries. The artery may then be exposed in two ways, either from the outer or else from the upper wall of the zygomatic It may be reached from the outer wall of the zygomatic fossa by sawing through the lower jaw in front of the masseter, by disarticulating the condyle, or rather by sawing it across its neck, and by carefully dissecting the pterygoid XQUSClcS* The artery can be reached from the upper wall by making two sections in this part of the bone, which wiUmeet at an acute jingle in the foramen spinosum of the sphenoid bone. The branches of this artery, especially those which are inclosed in bony canals, such as the dental, the pterygo-palatine, the vidian, &c. must be dissected by carving out their courses in the bone. A vertical section, made from before backwards through the middle of tlie