""^ ANGEIOLOGY. The Lumbar or Vertebro-lumbar Veins. ,ein litpl.c'^*'^'' ""ff °° ^^^'^ ""^ ^"-i each vertebro-lumbar Ja^ Pte>^f separately, or by a common trunk, with its fellow of the opposite «de into the back of the vena cava inferior. Not unfrequently two of the vertebro-lumbar veins of the same side open "by a common truik; and it is not rare to find the left superior vertebro-lumbar vein enter the renal vein Ihe vertebro-lumbar veins (g-) are distributed very differently from the corresponding arteries. Opposite the bases of the transverse processes there are a series of anastomotic arches, which together constitute, on each side, an ascending branch, caUedthe ascending lumbar vein (6 b), which communicates above with the correspondmg azygos vein, and below with the iUo-lumbar veins, and which might be regarded as a lumbar azygos vein. The trunks of the vertebro-lumbar veins proceed from this series of arches to the vena cava; and all the mtra-spmal and dorsi-spinal veins terminate in it. 7%e Ilio-lumbar, Middle Sacral, and Lateral Sacral Veins. The ilio-lumbar vein, which opens mto the common iliac, is distributed like the artery of that name; it sometimes receives the last vertebro-lumbar vein ; it is joined by the great veins which emerge from the lower inter-vertebral' foramina of the lumbar vertebrae; by the branch which is continuous in front of the fifth lumbar vertebra, with the series of arches forming what may be called the lumbar azygos; and, lastly, by a communicating branch from the lateral sacral veins. The middle sacral and lateral sacral veins represent the azygos veins in the sacral region ; they are joined by all the dorsi-spinal branches passing out from the intervertebral foramina, and end in the common iliac veins. The middle sacral vein (A) often commences below by three branches, a median in front of the coccyx, and two lateral and anterior branches. One of (.these joins the vesical plexus, whilst the other communicates with the hajmor- rhoidal veins, and establishes a remarkable communication between the general venous system and the system of the vena portae. The middle sacral vein passes vertically upwards, somewhere near the middle line, and opens into the left common iliac vein (n) at a greater or less distance from its junction with the right common iliac. I have seen it bifurcate above to enter both common iliacs. During its course it is joined opposite each vertebra by some transverse, plexiform branches, which establish a free communication between it and the lateral sacral veins, and which receive some large branches from the bodies of the sacral vertebras. These transverse branches represent the vertebro-costal and vertebro-lumbar veins, which also receive the veins which issue from the bodies of the vertebra;, through the foramina, upon the inner surface of those bones. The lateral sacral veins (('), of which there are always more than one on each side, are continuous with the dorsi-spinal veins, which emerge from the anterior sacral foramina; there are generally two, a superior, which enters the common iliac vein, and an inferior, which forms a very remarkable plexus, opposite the great sciatic notch, and ends in the internal iliac vein, or in its gluteal and sciatic branches. 77ie Anterior Superficial Spinal Veins in the Neck. In the anterior cervical region we find transverse plexiform branches (k) opposite each vertebra, more particularly opposite the first and second ; these plexuses open partly into the ascending cervical vein, which corresponds to the ascending cervical artery, but principally into the vertebral vein, which is contained within the canal formed by the series of foramina at the base of the transverse processes of the cervical vertebra;. These plexiform branches, which cover the sides of the bodies of all the vertebrae, are joined by the veins from the prsevertebral muscles, by the articular veins, and by the anterior osseous veins from the bodies of the corresponding vertebra;.