1075 THE INTERNAL SAPHENOUS NERVE. F F 3 Fig. 292. muscle, to the aponeurosis of which it is applied*' / [/ opposite to the knee joint it is reflected forwards, perforates the thick fibrous layer which invests the inner side of the joint, and divides into two filaments, of which one, the articular, is lost behind the liga- mentum patriae in the quantity of adipose tissue which is found there, whilst the other, or the periosteal, gains the anterior surface of the patella and is lost in the periosteum. This last filament is reinforced upon the inner border of the patella by another which passes out from the substance of the vastus intemus. The Internal Saphenous Nerve. The internal saphenous nerve {t t', fig. 291.), the sa- tellite nerve of the femoral artery in the thigh, and of the internal saphenous vein in the leg, is at first situated on the outer side of the artery, but soon passes in front of that vessel, and is contained in the same fibrous sheath; when the artery passes through the tendon of the adductor magnus to enter the popliteal space the nerve continues its vertical course in front of that tendon, and crossing it very obliquely from before backwards, gains the back of the internal con- dyle of the femur, situated in front of the tendon of the gracilis, and separated from the skin by the sar- torius ; it then divides into two terminal branches («, a, figs. 291, 292.). This division often takes place as the nerve is crossing the tendon of the adductor mag- nus. Collateral branches. At its upper part the internal saphenous nerve receives from the obturator nerve a remarkable branch of origin, which passes from be- hind forwards in the angle formed by the femoral artery and the profunda, f It then gives off from its inner side, at the middle of the thigh, a cutaneous femoral branch, which passes between the sartorius and the gracilis, runs backwards and downwards, and is distributed to the skin of the posterior and internal region of the thigh. Several filaments continue their course to the inner and back part of the knee, anas- tomose with some branches given off from the sa- phenous nerve in the leg, and are distributed to the skin of the internal and posterior region of the leg. At the point where the femoral artery perforates the adductor magnus, the internal saphenous nerve gives off a second or tibial cutaneous branch, which passes between the sartorius and gracilis, turns round the inner border of the latter muscle, passes vertically downwards, parallel to the saphenous nerve, and divides into several filaments, some of which anas- • [In this situation it sometimes receives the articular filament of the anastomotic or long cutaneous branch of the obturator nerve.] t l^This junction of part of the obturator with the internal saphenous nerve was never seen m the dissections of Mr. Ellis, nor did the saphenous cive any collateral branch in the thigh; but branches corresponding in their distribution to the three^collateral branches described in the text arose from the obturator itself (see also note,