THE APPENDAGES OF THE SKIN. 847 zone or band, which terminates by a smooth border, and adheres intimately to the nail. As to its arrangement beyond tliis point authors are not agreed. Some are of opinion that it would be prolonged upon the free surface of the nail, if it were not destroyed by friction; but they overlook an objection to this view to be derived from the accustomed regularity of the epidermic border ; others, again, believe that the epidermis is reflected backwards like the dermis, but differ amongst themselves as to its ultimate disposition ; some for example conceiving, with Bichat, that the epidermis is continuous with the posterior border of the nail, and some supposing that it is again reflected forwards be- neath the nail, together with the dermis (see dotted line), which, according to this hypothesis, it never quits. * A very simple experiment most clearly demonstrates the nature of the con- nection between the epidermis and the nail: it consists in submitting a finger to the process of maceration, by means of which the nail and epidermis come off together in the form of a partly epidennic and partly horny sheath. In this the epidermis (a) is found to be reflected backwards upon the dorsal surface of the root of the nail, and to become blended with it (see^jr. 229.), without ever passing beyond its posterior border ; whilst, in front, at the limits between the body and the free portion of the nail, the epidermis (a') is manifestly continu- ous with the deepest layer of the horny lamina; so that it cannot be doubted that there is an identity of nature between the nail and epidermis. Structure and growth of the nail. On examining the two surfaces of the nail, and especially its deep surface and posterior border, it is found that they are marked by very distinct longitudinal lines or striae, which appear to in- dicate a corresponding linear texture. It would seem, accordingly, that the nail was formed by the agglutination into laminae of a number of longitudinal fibres; but if we examine the free surface of the nail attentively, we find that it is marked by curved striae, which intersect the longitudinal ones. These curved striae are particularly distinct in the not uncommon cases in which the nail of the great toe is much hypertrophied, and becomes incurvated upon the plantar surface of the toe : the enlarged nail is found to consist of im- bricated laminae, received one into the other like the several laminae in the hoof of an animal. We may even separate these different layers by aid of maceration, and find that they are fitted one into the other, the deepest being that which was last secreted. The nails, therefore, are developed by a method very analogous to that by which we have already stated the teeth are formed. (See Vol. I. p. 238.) The nails, then, like the hoofs of animals, and like the epidermis, are pro- ducts of secretion : they receive neither vessels nor nerves : alterations in their texture are not dependent upon diseases inherent in themselves, but re- sult from some morbid condition of their formative organ. The fold of the dermis, which is called the matrix of the nail, is not the only part by which the substance of the nail is secreted, but the whole papillary surface of the dermis, to which the nail adheres, is concerned in its formation. The papillae are arranged in longitudinal rows, and hence the substance of the nail is de- posited in longitudinal stria2.-f The nail grows continually in length; it does not increase sensibly in thickness, excepting during disease. The layers that have been deposited the longest time are the most superficial, and occupy the free extremity of the nail, in precisely the same manner as the oldest-formed ivory in the tooth is nearest to the enamel.|. * See note %, below. .,n„.?=f* arrangement of the papillary dermoid layer which covers the dorsal surface of the ^^fr^i phalanx, is worthy 01 notice: it adheres intimately to the periosteum and forms an extremely dense, greyish stratum, penetrated by vessels and nerves • so that if the mode of ter miTwh"pr°P ,'hf."'n''-, " "'^ P»P"l?=.<:\n ever L ascertained" it il ^Uhout 'doubf.^eneath^ nail where these papillce present their highest state of developement. "«neain the tlJ. e^ri!;™i'. Zl ■''Chwann to consist of nucleated corpuscules, which, like those of the epidermis, are formed upon the surface of the dermis, where they are soft and ves c.ilar