THE INTERNAL PUDIC ARTERY. 739 H 3 rlitori^ in the female. An important variety in the course of this artery has been pointed out by Burns, who, in a male subject, saw the trunk of the internal pudic instead of passing out of the pelvis ,run upon the sides of the inferior fundus of the bladder, perforate the upper part of the prostate, and then terminate in the usual manner. , a- Collateral branches. During its course withm the pelvis, the internal pudic suDDlies branches to the bladder, rectum, vesiculse seminales, and prostate in the male and to the vagina in the female ; it also rather frequently gives off the middle hEBmorrhoidal. As it turns round the spme of the ischium, it ffives some branches to the rotator muscles of the thigh. Opposite the internal surface of the tuberosity of the ischium, it gives origin to one or more branches, named the external or inferior hamorrhoidal (J), fig. 213.), which run inwards to be distributed to the lower end of the rectum, to the sphincter, the levator am, and the skin; also some branches, which proceed outwards, some to supply the periosteum of the tuberosity, whilst others ramify in the muscles attached to that process ; lastly, a very important communicating branch passes between the tuberosity of the ischium and the great trochanter, and anastomoses -with the sciatic and internal circumflex arteries. Terminal branches. These differ in the two sexes. We shall first describe them in the male : — The inferior branch, the superficial artery of the perineum, or th.& perineal artery (c), is smaller than the superior branch ; it passes forwards and inwards, in the cellular interval between the ischio-cavernosus and the bulbo-cavernosus; above, i. e. deeper than the superficial fascia of the perineum, which separates it from the skin; and below, i. e. superficial to the transversus perinei muscle, it thus reaches the dartos at the side of the median line, where it is named the artery of the septum, and is distributed to the scrotum and the skin of the penis. During its course the superficial perineal artery gives internal and external branches. Some of the internal branches run along the posterior border of the transversus perinei muscle, and are sometimes so large as to bleed very pro- fusely when they are divided in the operation of lithotomy ; from its situation one of them is named the transverse artery of the perineum (d). The deep superior or deep branch (e), or the artery of the penis (in the male), is the continuation of the trunk of the internal pudic, both in regard to size and direction ; it runs along the ascending ramus of the ischium, between the layers of the triangular ligament; above, i. e. deeper than the transverse muscle, which it sometimes perforates, also above the ischio-cavernosus and the cor- responding crus of the corpus cavernosum; and opposite the point at which the two crura unite, it subdivides into two branches, viz. the dorsal artery of the penis (g), and the artery of the corpus cavernosum (h). During its course the artery of the penis gives off a very important collateral branch, named the artery of the bulb (_/), which is as large as the superficial perineal artery, is sometimes double, and generally arises near the bulb, passes transversely inwards, above the middle perineal fascia or triangular ligament, or rather in the substance of that ligament, and is distributed to the bulb of the urethra. The dorsal artery of the penis (g) is sometimes the only terminal branch of the internal pudic, and then a very delicate twig supplies the place of the artery of the corpus cavernosum, which, in this case, is supplied from another source. This artery reaches the dorsal surface of the penis by passing between the symphysis pubis and the crura of the corpus cavernosum, and perforating the suspensory ligament of the penis, and then runs in a very tortuous manner along beneath the skin upon the dorsal aspect of that organ, on one side of the median line, being retained in its position by a layer of fibrous membrane; it terminates by ramifying in the prepuce and in the glans, around the base of which it forms a corona. I have seen the dorsal artery of the penis given off by one of the external pudic arteries, from which it arose immediately above-