930 NEUROLOGY. supports and protects that part of the cerebro-spinal axis, as the neurilemma does the nerves. The external surface of this membrane is surrounded with a net-work of remarkably tortuous bloodvessels ; and vessels are also found in its substance. The spinal cord is visible through this semi-transparent membrane, which is naturally of a pearly white colour, but is sometimes dull, yellowish, blackish, or even covered with black spots, especially in the cervical region.* This surface of the rachidian neurilemma is also rough, being covered with small cellular and fibrous filaments which float under water, and are the re- mains of small fibrous cords, which extended from the neurilemma to the arachnoid. The internal surface of the neurilemma adheres to the spinal cord by a great number of cellular and vascular prolongations, which form areola; or meshes in its interior, and which have been well described and figured by KeufFel. Along the anterior median furrosF, the neurilemma sends off a prolongation, which, entering that furrow, lines one of its walls, and is then reflected at its bottom, so as to line the other wall; within the substance of the duplieature thus formed the bloodvessels penetrate. A simple prolongation of the neu- rilemma of extreme tensity also enters into the posterior median furrows, and forms a line of separation between the two posterior halves of the spinal cord. The neurilemma is prolonged below the lower extremity of the spinal cord as a fibrous filament, very well described by Huber, which is inserted into the base of the coccyx. This filament the older anatomists regarded as a nerve, and named it the nervus impar; it is very strong considering its thinness ; it is always tense, and appears to be intended to fix the lower end of the spinal cord; in this respect serving a similar purpose with the ligamentum denticulatum. Its upper part is hollow, and is filled with a grey and extremely soft substance. The ligamentum denticulatum, which has been considered as a prolongation of the proper membrane of the cord, is attached to the external surface of this membrane ; and the proper neurilemma of each nervous filament is also given off from this surface. Monro has stated that a soft layer of grey substance covers the white sub- stance of the spinal cord, and separates it from its neurilemma, but such a layer does not exist.f While the other membranes of the spinal cord are much larger than the part which they have to invest, the neurilemma of the cord is exactly moulded upon it, and even exerts a certain degree of pressure upon it, as is evident from the manner in which the substance of the cord protrudes, when this co- vering is punctured ; this compression occasions the apparent consistence of the cord, when it is enveloped in its sheath, a condition which contrasts so strongly with its softness when that sheath has been removed. This compression, as well as the absolute inextensibility of the neurilemma, accounts for the rarity of effusions in the cord, and also for the fatal effects of even the slightest effusions within its substance when they do occur. Structure. The proper membrane of the cord is essentially fil»rous; nor has it any claim to be termed a vascular membrane {tunica vascuhsa, Soemmerring). Its component fibres interlace in every direction, but the majority of them are longitudinal. It is quite evident that the vessels which ramify upon its surface, and afterwards penetrate it, do not belong to the mem- brane itself. . . i n,„ Uses The neurilemma is essentially a protectmg structure ; it constitutes the framework of the spinal cord, and serves at the same time as a support for the * These different shades of colour are much more common in certiiin animals, ^^^^P for exXle thTin nian ; they result from the deposition of a colouring matter, and are m no way connected with any recent or previous morbid action Hver over the me- t Tn several subjects, I have most distinctly seen a very thm yellowish 1^ dnlla oblongata, which dipped between the pyram dal bodies, and filled up the sliaUow groove which separates the olivary from the pyramidal bodies.