THE STRUCTURE OF THE NOSE. 855 The cartilage of the septum nasi {c,Jig. 232.) occupies the triangular interval between the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid bone I p. <,« and the vomer. It consists of two parts : one, wide ' ' and free, which is that generally described; the other which is narrow, and may be called the caudal pro- longation of the cartilage, is received into the bony por- tion of the septum, between the two lamellae of the vomer. The free portion of the cartilage is thick and trian- gular ; it has the same direction as the bony septum, and presents two lateral surfaces, covered by the pi- tuitary membrane ; an anterior margin, of which the upper half (jc,fig. 231.) is blended with the lateral car- tilages along the dorsum of the nose, whilst its lower half is free, convex, directed downwards, and received between the two cartUages of the nostrils; a superior and posterior margin, which is extremely thick and rough, and is intimately united to the con-e- sponding margin of the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid bone {e,fig. 232.): the mode in which this union is effected is not by articulation, but by a continuity of tissue, like that between the costal cartilages and the ribs; lastly, an inferior margin, which is received between the two plates of the vomer (y). The groove into which it is received is very deep ; and as the two plates of the vomer be- come more and more separated in extending forwards, so does the corresponding margin of the cartilage increase in thickness ; hence the lower extremity of the septum frequently projects considerably into one or other of the nostrils. The caudal prolongation of the cartilage of the septum may be seen by care- fully examining the retreating angle formed by the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid and the vomer ; in which situation the cartilage of the septum gives off a considerable prolongation, in the form of a band, which occupies the interval between the two plates of the vomer, and is attached to the rostrum of the sphenoid bone. This cartilaginous band is contained entirely within the substance of the middle portion of the bony septum : its upper margin is thin, and, as it were, toothed; the lower jnargin is thick and rounded. The two naso-palatine nerves are situated in the same canal as the cartilage, and are placed one on each side of it. The muscles of the nose are the pyramidalis nasi, the levator labii superioris aloeque nasi, and the transversalis nasi or compressor narium, which we have described as a dependence of the depressor alae nasi or myrtiformis : an accurate description of these muscles is stiU to be desired. The skin, covering the nasal bones and the lateral cartilages of the nose, has no particular character : it is thin and moveable. That which covers the alae and the lobe of the nose is very thick and extremely dense ; it crepi- tates under the knife, to such a degree, that cartilages have been supposed to exist in the substance of the ate. We have seen, however, that the car- tilages of the nostrils are not prolonged into the alae, which are composed essen- tially of the dense integument just described, and which is reflected inwards upon itself around the margins of the nostrils. I should remark that the antero-posterior diameter of the opening of each nostril is much less than that of the corresponding cartilage; this depends upon the fact, that the skin is prolonged anteriorly, and is reflected for some lines below and behind the lower margin of the cartilage. The skin of the nose is remarkable for the great developement of its sebaceous follicles. The orifices of these follicles are shown in many individuals by- certain black points, which are nothing more than the sebaceous matter dis- coloured. When forced out of the follicles by lateral pressure, the masses of sebaceous matter resemble in form small worms. The skin, which is reflected upon itself around the margins of the nostrils, preserves the character of integument as far as where it is provided with hairs, and then suddenly assumes the characters of mucous membranes.