NEUROLOGY. 1050 Terminal branches. The anterior, external or ulnar branch, which is the larger, continues in the vertical direction of the trunk of the nerve, and divides into two branches, which descend in front of the elbow joint, sometimes before, and sometimes behind the median basilic vein (e), and again sub- divide into a great number of filaments which di- verge, and are arranged in the following manner : the internal filaments pass obliquely downwards, inwards, and backwards, crossing the ulnar vein (m), and then the ulna, and supply the skin covering FiR. 287. the inner and back part of the fore-arm ; they can be traced nearly as far as the region of the car- pus : the external filament, which might be called median, because it follows the median vein, de- scends vertically, and may be traced as far as the upper part of the palm of the hand; one of these filaments always anastomoses with a twig from the ulnar nerve at the lower part of the fore-arm. The posterior, internal or epitrochlear branch (g), descends vertically behind the median basilic vein, in front of the epitrochlea, and then below it, so as to embrace it in a sort of loop; it then passes very obliquely downwards and backwards, crosses the ulna below the olecranon, gains the dorsal as- pect of the fore-arm, and runs vertically (a, fig. 289.) down to the wrist. Around the epitrochlea, this internal branch gives off several branches, I I; which ramify upon the skin that covers the inner / / side of the elbow joint: one of these branches is reflected upwards between the epitrochlea and the olecranon, and anastomoses with the accessory nerve of the internal cutaneous. Frequently, before reach- ing the epitrochlea, this branch has already given off a twig which anastomoses with the same nerve. Summary. The internal cutaneous nerve, then, / \ is exclusively intended for the skin. It only gives one small branch to the arm : its other divisions are intended for the fore-arm. One of them be- longs to the dorsal, and the other to the internal aspect. The accessory nerve of the internal cutaneous. I have applied this term to a small branch (cutaneus minor internus, Wrisberg,) which it is difficult to discover, and which would be more properly classed among the collateral than the terminal branches of the brachial plexus : it arises above and sometimes below the clavicle, from the back part of the nervous cord formed by the junction of the eighth cervical and first dorsal nerves: it passes downwards upon the sides of the thorax, and divides into two branches, an external and an internal. The external branch (a', fig. 287.), which is the smaller one, passes vertically downwards, and crosses the conjoined tendons of the teres major and latissi- mus dorsi at right angles ; it lies in contact with the skin covering the inner and back part of the arm, and may be traced as low as the elbow. The internal branch (c) anastomoses with the second intercos al nerve, de- vein, and then lies in contact witli the fascia, which it perforates near the epitrochlea, and u lost upon the synovial membrane of the elbow joint.