SACRAL PORTION OF THE SYMPATHETIC SYSTEM. 1167 The vesical plexuses are composed of a great number of exceedingly small filaments They are situated upon the sides of the posterior fundus (bas-fond) of the bladder, on the outer side of the ureters, and are divided into two sets, viz. ascending vesical nerves, which pass upwards upon the sides of the bladder, embrace the outer and inner surfaces of the ureters, and ramify upon the an- terior and posterior surfaces of the bladder; and horizontal vesical nerves, which run forwards upon the sides of the fundus of the bladder, externally to the large plexus of veins found in that situation, and spread out into extremely delicate filaments, of which some enter the substance of the bladder, especiaUy at its neck, whilst the others in considerable numbers turn round the prostate gland and are distributed within it; one of the prostatic filaments may be traced into the membranous portion of the urethra. The plexuses for the vesiculm seminales, and vasa deferentia, and testicles. Some of the filaments situated on the inner side of the ureters surround the vesicute seminales and are lost in them ; these are very small; two or three remarkably large filaments run upwards along each vas deferens; having reached the inguinal ring, they unite with the corresponding spermatic plexus, which is a production of the renal plexus, and descend to the testicle. The branches for the prostate, vesiculse seminales, vasa deferentia, and tes- ticles are represented in the female by the utero-vaginal, ovarian, and tubal nerves. The uterine nerves. Notwithstanding the figures of the sympathetic pub- lished by Walter, in which the nerves of the uterus are well represented, and notwithstanding the still more explicit description given of them by Hunter, most anatomists continue to entertain doubts regarding the existence of the uterine nerves. Lobstein, in his work on the Sympathetic, published in 1822, even denied them altogether ; but Tiedemann in the same year published two beautiful figures representing the nerves of the gravid uterus.* The uterine nerves are derived from several sources. I have already stated that the plexuses surrounding the ovarian arteries, which are productions of the renal plexuses, are distributed, like the vessels by which they are supported, both to the uterus and the ovaries. It appears to me that the ovarian nerves and vessels have a similar arrange- ment, that is to say, that the uterine branches derived from the ovarian plexuses are larger than the ovarian nerves properly so called. The tubal nerves are also derived from the ovarian plexuses. The uterine nerves derived from the hypogastric plexuses are divided into ascending branches, which run upwards along the lateral borders of the uterus, pass forwards and backwards, upon the surfaces of that organ, and terminate in its substance ; and into descending branches, which run along the sides of the vagina and terminate in it. These vaginal nerves appear to be inseparably blended with the vesical and haemorrhoidal nerves, f Such are the divisions of the hypogastric plexuses; analogy, rather than direct observation, has led to the admission of the existence of gluteal, ischiatic, and internal pudic plexuses ; in fact of plexuses around all the branches of the internal iliac arteries. The Sacral Portion of the Sybipathetic System. The sacral portion of the sympathetic {s s,fig. 302.) is formed on each side by a cord enlarged at intervals, and situated on the inner side of and along the anterior sacral foramina. * Tabulffi Nervorum Uteri. Heidelberg, 1822, folio. t [Dr. Lee has recently examined minutely the distribution of the nerves of the unim pregnated and gravid uterus, lie has i'^^cnhei (Anatoiny of the Nerves ol the Uta^^^ p ates, 1841 ; and Proceed ngs of the Uoyal Society, No.-lfl.) several large uterine n^exuseJ^ also several argo gangUa on the uterine nerves, and on those of the vfgina and b adder and further, " two great ganglia situated on the sides of tlie neck of the uterus "l ' VOL. U. jl 5f ' '