NEUROLOGY. 888 the process of the helix: it is of considerable size, is very dense, and arises trom the anterior margin of the helix, above the tragus. This process gives attachment to a ligament. 2. A tail-shaped tongue of cartilage (i), separated from that of the anti- tragus and concha by a very long fissure, which is occupied by ligamentous fibres. This tongue is formed by the united ends of the helix and anti-helix, and IS very thick and dense ; it may be called the caudal extremity of the helix and anti-helix; it supports the base of the lobule. 3. A well-marked thickening, situated opposite the concha, and characterised by a dead white colour. This thickening occupies a vertically elongated por- tion of the mastoid surface of the concha, and terminates at the lower part of the auricular cartilage: it seems to be intended to preserve the form of the concha, which cannot be flattened unless this thickened portion of the cartilage is first divided. Several fissures or notches are also found in the cartilage of the ear, which is thus imperfectly divided into several pieces that are movable upon each other, and united together by ligaments. The principal fissure, independently of that already described as existing between the anti-tragus and the caudal extremity of the helix and anti-helix, are, a small vertical fissure upon the anterior margin of the helix; another vertical fissure upon the tragus; several irregular notches in the helix; and, lastly, a much more im- portant fissure, to which I shall have to allude in describing the external audi- tory meatus. It is situated between the helix and the tragus, and is prolonged upon the outer half of the orifice of that meatus. The skin of the auricle is remarkable for its thinness and transparency: hence the subcutaneous vascular network can be seen through it without dis- section ; it is no less remarkable for its tension and its close adhesion to the cartilage, upon which it is moulded, so as accurately to reveal its form. The portion of skin which covers the concha is especially remarkable for its great tenuity and intimate adhesion to the cartilage. The skin upon the free border of the auricle adheres but slightly to and projects beyond the helix; the same fold of skin, when doubled upon itself and prolonged below the helix, constitutes the lobule, which, together with the adjacent part of the free border of the auricle, is nothing more than a dupli- cature of the skin, containing some soft fat. A small quantity of fat is formed around the entire circumference of the auricle, but none exists in other situations. The skin of the ear is provided with sebaceous follicles, which can be easily shown by maceration, after the method employed by Soemmerring, and which are most numerous in the concha and the scaphoid fossa. The ligaments of the auricle are divided into the intrinsic and the extrinsic ligaments. The extrinsic ligaments are, the posterior ligament, which is a thick, tendinous layer, extending from the concha to the mastoid process ; the anterior ligament, which is a triangular, very broad, and very strong ligament, arising from the process of the helix and the adjacent part of the border of the helix, and ter- minating at the zygomatic arch, where it is blended with the superficial tem- poral fascia; and, lastly, the ligament of the tragus, which is very strong, and extends from the tragus to the adjacent part of the zygomatic arch. The intrinsic ligaments, the object of which is to keep the cartilage of the auricle folded upon itself, are, the ligament which keeps the caudal extre- mity of the helix applied to the concha; the very strong ligament which ex- tends from the tragus to the helix, and unites the outer half of the auditory meatus to the cartilage of the auricle; some very strong bundles, which are situated upon the mastoid surface of the auricle, and are intended to preserve its convolutions, for when they are divided the auricle may be unfolded; lastly, those most remarkable ligamentous bundles, which occupy the fold presented by the inferior branch of the bifurcation of the anti-helix. The three extrinsic muscles of the ear, which exist in a rudimentary con