1162 NEUROLOGY. they have so many relations with them. They arise directly from the semi- lunar ganglia, by two very delicate pencils of nerves, which reach the back of the suprarenal arteries, and are lost in the substance of the suprarenal bodies. Several filaments from the diaphragmatic plexuses join them, passing in front of the arteries. The suprarenal plexuses are large in proportion to the size of the organs they supply. The Cceliac Plexus. The coeliac plexus is one of the principal divisions of the solar plexus, of which it is the immediate prolongation, so that it is almost impossible to distinguish one from the other: it surrounds the coeliac axis, and immediately divides like it into three plexuses, the coronary of the stomach, the hepatic, and the splenic. The coronary plexus of the stomach. This is given off from the upper part of the solar plexus ; it receives some filaments from the right pneumogastric, before that nerve joins the solar plexus ; of these filaments, some ramify upon the cardia, whilst the remainder foUow the coronary artery along the lesser curvature of the stomach, and anastomose with the pyloric filaments of the hepatic plexus. It follows, therefore, that the stomach is principally supplied by the pneumogastric nerve. The filaments from the coronary plexus of the stomach, as well as those of the pneumogastric nerve, after having run for some distance beneath the peritoneum, perforate the muscular coat of the stomach, and appear to be partly lost in it and partly in the mucous membrane. The hepatic plexus is of very considerable size, and might be divided, after the example of Lobstein, into an anterior and a posterior plexus. The anterior accompanies the hepatic artery, and is formed by some twigs from the right pneumogastric, and by seven or eight large, grey, cylindrical filaments from the left semilunar ganglion, which are joined by two or three branches from the right semilunar ganglion. The posterior hepatic plexus accompanies the vena portse, and is derived almost entirely from the right semilunar ganglion; it is also composed of greyish, thick, cylindrical cords. I would especially notice one cord, which is remarkable both from its size and its course ; it arises directly from the solar ganglion of the right side, passes in a horizontal and curved direction to reach the gastro-hepatic omentum, and continues horizontally between the layers of that omentum, in front of the lobulus Spigelii; it then ascends to the transverse fissure of the liver, becomes situated beneath the vena portse, and may be traced along that vein into the interior of the liver. I have seen this great hepatic branch come directly from two ganglia situated upon the right crus of the diaphragm. Before reaching the liver, the hepatic plexus gives off a secondary plexus of considerable size, around the right gastro-epiploic artery, the right gastro- epiploic plexus; it is considerably augmented by filaments which are derived immediately from the solar plexus, and perforate the pancreas. The hepatic plexus also furnishes branches to the pylorus and the lesser curvature of the stomach, to the pancreas, to the great curvature of the sto- mach, and to the great omentum. The pylorus, therefore, and the great cur- vature of the stomach, are supplied almost exclusively by the hepatic plexus.* The hepatic plexus likewise gives off a small cystic plexus which is easily seen beneath the peritoneum, surrounding the cystic artery as far as the gall bladder. Diminished in size, from having given off a series of branches and plexuses, the hepatic plexus gains the transverse fissure of the liver, divides like the hepatic artery and vena porta;, and may be traced for some distance in the capsule of Glisson. • The cardia and the lesser curvature of the stomach are the parts which are the mod abundantly provided with nerves. The pylorus, to which we attribute such great sensibility, has incomparably fewer.