ANGEIOLOGY. 682 ARTERIES ARISING FROM THE ARCH OF THE AORTA. Enumeration and Varieties.— The Common Carotids.— The External Carotid —the superior thyroid—the facial—the lingual—the occipital—the posterior auricular — the parotid—the ascending pharyngeal—the temporal—the in- ternal maxillary.— The Internal Carotid—the ophthalmic—the cerebral branches of the internal carotid.— Summary of the distribution of the Common Carotids. — Artery of the upper extremity. — The Brachio-cephalic. — The right and left Subclavians — the vertebral and its cerebral branches, with re- marks on the arteries of the brain, cerebellum, and medulla—the inferior thyroid — the supra-scapular — the posterior scapular—the internal mammary—the deep cervical—the superior intercostal. — The Axillary—the acromio-thoracic — the long thoracic — the sub-scapular—the posterior circumflex—the anterior circumflex. — The Brachial and its collateral branches. — TTie Hadial, its col- lateral branches, and the deep palmar arch.— The Ulnar, its collateral branches, and the superficial palmar arch. — General remarks on the arteries of the upper extremity. Three arterial trunks, intended to supply the head and the upper extremities, take their origin from the arch of the aorta. Proceeding in the order in -which they arise, i. e. from right to left, they are, the innominate or brachio-cephalic (e.fig. 198.), which soon subdivides into the right common carotid (/) and right subclavian (y), the left common carotid (/')> ^Jid the left subclavian (g). The direction of that portion of the arch of the aorta which gives origin to these arteries is such, that they are arranged one after the other upon a plane wnich slopes downwards, backwards, and to the left; so that the trunk of the innominate artery lies almost immediately behind the sternum, while the left subclavian is near the vertebral column. Varieties. These three arteries present numerous varieties in their origin, all of which appear to me to be referrible to the three following heads: — varieties by approximation or fusion, varieties by multiplication, and varieties by transposition of their origins. In many cases, several of these kinds of vai'ieties may coexist.* Varieties by approximation or fusion of origins. Sometimes the left common carotid becomes closely approximated to the brachio-cephalic trunk ; and this condition leads us to the not very uncommon variety, in which these two vessels arise by a common trunk, f Again, two brachio-cephalic trunks may be given off from the arch of the aorta, one on the right, the other on the left side ; the greatest amount of variety of this kind is observed in the case where the three branches which usually arise from the arch are united into one common trunk, which forms an ascending aorta. This arrangement is normal in the ox and some other animals. Varieties by multiplication of origin. Sometimes the two common carotids arise separately in the interval between a right and a left subclavian, a con- dition that leads us to the case in which the two carotids arise by a common trunk between the separated subclavians. Again, the left vertebral artery may arise directly from the aorta, between the left carotid and subclavian; this'is very common: or the two vertebrals, the two carotids, and the two subclavians may all arise separately ; or the inferior thyroid, or the thyroid of Neubauer, from the name of the anatomist who first described this variety, may arise directly from the curvature of the aorta; lastly, the right internal » [A variety, affecting merely the situation of the three primary vessels upon the arch is noticed by Professor R Quain (Opera ctt.). It consists in those vessels arising to the right of their usual position, i. e. nearer to the origin of the aorta.] , t [According to the extensive observations of Professor U. Quain, this appears t.' be Uj Ur the most frequent variety.]