NEUROLOGY. 112U regions; one of them forms an anastomotic arch with the facial nerve behind the duct of Steno. This anastomosis is very remarkable. The middle branches pass horizontally forwards on a level with the commissure of the lips, and ter- minate in the skin ; several of them form a sort of plexus around the inferior coronary artery of the lip. The lowest of the descending branches pass verti- cally downwards and even a little backwards upon the outer surface of the buccinator, also beneath the deep surface and upon the outer surface of the triangularis oris, and are entirely lost either in the skin or in the mucous membrane. It is doubtful whether the buccal nerve partially terminates in the orbicularis oris, the triangularis oris, and the zygomaticus major. All the filaments which enter these muscles, and which appear at first sight to ter- minate in their substance, pass through them to supply the mucous membrane ; their branches anastomose with the mental nerve beneath the triangularis oris; several filaments are lost in the buccinator. The Internal Pterygoid Nerve. The m«emoZ collateral branch Q,fig. 299.), or nerve for the internal pterygoid muscle, which is very slender, comes off from the inner side of the inferior maxillary nerve in contact with a greyish body, named the otic ganglion, runs downwards and inwards along the inner surface of the internal pterygoid muscle, and ramifies in it. The Auriculo-temporal Nerve. The posterior collateral branch, or the auriculo-temporal nerve (the auricular or superficial temporal nerve of authors), is very large, flattened, and plexiform at its origin (behind c, fig. 298.; r, fig. 299.); it sometimes arises by a great number of distinct roots ; it passes backwards and a little downwards behind the neck of the condyle of the lower jaw, and divides into two branches, a superior or ascending, and an inferior or descending branch. The superior or ascending branch, the superficial temporal nerve, turns round the back of the neck of the condyle, and ascends vertically between the arti- culation and the external auditory meatus: having become subcutaneous it divides into several filaments (r,fig. 285.), which may be traced up to the highest part of the temporal fossa. During its course this nerve gives off a very remarkable anastomotic branch, which arises behind the neck of the condyle, and is reflected upon it so as to run forwards beneath the facial nerve, with which it is blended opposite to the posterior border of the masseter. This anastomotic branch is sometimes double. It may be regarded as one of the origins of the facial nerve, which increases considerably in size after having received it. This branch is one of the principal communications between the facial nerve and the fifth nerve, and modern physiologists have justly attached great im- portance to it. The ascending branch also gives off some plexiform branches to the tem- poro-maxillary articulation, and several filaments to the auditory meatus and the auricle. In the temporal region it anastomoses with a very small fila- ment, which is derived from the deep temporal nerve, and which perforates the temporal fascia.* It accompanies the temporal artery, for which it forms a sort of plexus, and then divides into cutaneous filaments, which reach the crown of the head. The inferior, descendiiig, or auricular branch is as large as the preceding; it forms a plexus around the internal maxillary artery, behind the condyle, and sometimes presents small ganglia; it divides into several branches, some of which pass through the parotid gland and are distributed to the lobe of the ear, whilst the others anastomose with some filaments of the auricidaris mag- * [This perforating cutaneous filament is one of the temporal filaments of the orbital branch of the superior maxillary nerve (see notes, pp. 1114. 111!).).]