728 ANGEIOLOGY. the branch for the median nerve, and the anterior artery of the carpus- in the paim of the hand, the ulnar artery gives oS the collateral arteries of tlie jingers. •' The anterior and posterior ulnar recurrent arteries generally arise by a com- mon trunk, which is given oS from the back of the highest portion of the ulnar artery, passes transversely inwards, and divides into, two branches — an an- terior and a posterior. The former, or anterior ulnar recurrent artery (e, Jig. 211.), passes between the brachialis anticus and pronator teres, gives branches to all the muscles attached to the inner condyle, and anastomoses with the internal collateral branch from the brachial. The other branch, the posterior ulnar recurrent, is larger than the anterior, runs behind the muscles arising from the inner condyle, isthen situated between that condyle and the olecranon, passes between the two origins of the flexor carpi ulnaris in front of the ulnar nerve, anastomoses freely with the internal collateral branch of the brachial artery and with the interosseous recurrent, and contributes to form an arterial network upon the back of the elbow joint. The branch given off bv the posterior ulnar recurrent to the ulnar nerve deserves to be pointed out; it'may be traced from below upwards, along that nerve, and anastomoses with the other branches given oS to the same nerve from the brachial artery. The interosseous artery is so large that it appears to be the result of a bifur- cation of the ulnar, and is described as such by many anatomists; it comes off from the back of the ulnar, immediately below the trunk of the recurrents, on a level with the bicipital tuberosity of the radius; it not unfrequently arises from the radial. Lastly, in several cases of high division, either of the brachial or of the axillary artery, the interosseous has been found to constitute one of the branches of the bifurcation, the other branch being the common trunk of the radial and ulnar arteries. Immediately after its origin, the interosseous passes directly backwards, and divides into two branches of almost equal size, which are named from their dis- tribution, the anterior and posterior interosseous. The anterior interosseous (/, fig. 211.) descends vertically in front of the interosseous ligament, and is held down to it by a layer of fibrous tissue *: it is placed behind the flexor profundus digitorum and the flexor longus poUicis, in the cellular interval between these muscles. Having reached the upper borders of the pronator quadi'atus, it passes between that muscle and the interosseous ligament, rests upon the latter, and perforates it towards its lower part: having thus reached the back of the forearm, the anterior interosseous descends upon the dorsal surface of the carpus, and terminates by anastomosing •with the dorsal carpal branches of the radial and ulnar. Whilst perforating the interosseous ligament behind the pronator quadratus, the artery almost always gives ofi' a small twig, which descends perpendicularly to join the arch formed by the anterior arteries of the carpus. In one case where the radial artery was exceedingly small, indeed in a ru- dimentary state, its place was supplied by the anterior interosseous; which, after having passed behind the pronator quadratus, escaped forwards under the lower border of that muscle, and passed transversely outwards, to anastomose with the rudimentary radial artery, which, thus reinforced, immediately as- sumed its usual size. During its course, the interosseous artery only gives off some small branches to the front of the fore-arm, among which the artery of the median nerve de- serves special notice; but several large branches are detached in succession from its posterior aspect, and immediately perforate the interosseous ligament: they are called the perforating arteries of the fore-arm, and are distributed to the deep layer of muscles on the back of the fore-arm. I have seen one of these » After amputation of the fore-arm, the interosseous artery becomes retracted between tliis fibrous layer and the interosseous ligament; and it is hence so difficult in some cases to place a ligature upon it, that it has been recommended to divide the interosseous hgament for a short distance.