THE AUDITORY NERVE AND VESSELS OF THE EAR. 907 which lines the labyrinthic caTities. This periosteal membrane, which ana- logy would lead us to regard as a fibro-serous membrane, is the only mem- brane which is prolonged into the cochlea. We might, however, regard that portion of the lamina spiralis, which is next to the inner surface of the la- mina gyrorum, as a portion of the membranous labyrinth. The calcareous matter of the vestibule. The examination of the ear of fishes, which has proved of such assistance in investigating the structure ot the human membranous labyrinth, has also led to the inquiry, whether there ex- isted any thing in the human ear analogous to the soM calcareous concretions found in the labyrinth of the ear of fishes. From the researches of M. Breschet it appears, that the labyrinthic stones, or otolithes, of fishes are represented m all the mammalia, and consequently in man, by a cretaceous powder, which he has named otocmia {oh, wtIs, the ear, and k6vis, dust); and that this powder exists both in the utricle and the sacccule, collected together into two white shining masses, which were seen and described by both Comparetti and Scarpa, but were mistaken by them for the dried acoustic nerve. Does it fulfil the same uses as the otolithes in fishes? or should it be regarded as a ru- dimentary condition of an important structure in other animals ? The Auditory Nerve and the Vessels of the Ear. The auditory nerve, or special nerve of the organ of hearing, is remarkable for its softness, and hence it has been named the portio mollis of the seventh cranial nerve. The auditory nerve arises, at least in part, from the anterior wall of the fourth ventricle ; having reached the bottom of the internal auditory meatus, it divides into two branches—an anterior and larger, distributed to the cochlea, and a posterior, intended for the vestibule and semicircular canals. The an- terior or cochlear branch (f,_/?g'. 264.) has a spiral arrangement, like that portion of the bottom of the auditory meatus (d, Jig. 260.) to which it proceeds, and it enters through the foramina in the tractus spiralis of the lamina cribrosa. One set of nervous filaments enters the small canals in the centre of the mo- diolus (b, fig. 264.) ; the others are applied to the surface of the modiolus (t,fig. 263.) ; the latter filaments spread out upon the first turn of the lamina spiralis {t, fig. 265.), radiating in the most regular manner, and having arrived near the outer border of the spiral lamina, they each divide into two or three ramuscules, which anastomose together, so as to form a nervous expansion.* These radiating filaments are more distinct upon the lower than upon the upper surface of the spiral lamina. Those filaments of the nerve which are not spread out upon the first turn of the lamina spiralis, pass through the foramina in the centre of the modiolus, and spread out upon the second turn in the same manner as those already de- scribed. Lastly, the highest filaments emerge from the opening at the apex of the modiolus, and terminate in a similar manner. It follows, therefore, that the nerves of the cochlea successively diminish in length, as the spiral lamina does in width ; and thus the radiating nervous filaments resemble the strings of a harp, in becoming successively shorter and shorter. It is probable that this arrangement is not without its influence upon the-function of hearing. In a temporal bone softened by the action of nitric acid, the auditory nerve, the modiolus, the spiral lamina, and the periosteal membrane which lines the cochlea, may be dissected with the greatest facility. The posterior or vestibular division of the auditory nerve is subdivided into three branches, the largest of which (v, fig. 265.) is distributed to the utricle (m) and to the ampulla? (o' p') of the superior vertical and horizontal mem- branous semicircular canals; the middle-sized branch is distributed to the * [According to observations made by Trcviranus, Gottsche, and others, the filaments of the cochlear nerve in anvmals do not anastomose, but terminate in isolated extremities, which are m some cases papillary (Treviranus), and in others club-shaped (Gottsche).^