1032 NEUROLOGY. what irregularly, and as it were confusedly from a small white column about half a line in breadth. In regard to size, the posterior roots taken separately are much larger than their corresponding anterior roots; besides this, the filaments of the posterior roots are more numerous, so that the posterior roots taken together are larger than the anterior, as Soemmerring, Chaussier, and Gall have very well established. It is difficult to conceive how some authors should have entertained the opinion, that the proportion between them is just the reverse, at least in some regions; this error has doubtless arisen from the varieties which exist, in different regions of the medulla, in the relative sizes of the anterior and posterior roots, but which are never such as to give the advantage in point of size to the anterior roots : opposite the intervertebral foramina, the series of cords formed by the anterior roots have a different arrangement from those formed by the posterior roots. The cord formed by each of the posterior roots immediately swells out and forms an olive-shaped ganglion, which is called a vertebral or spinal ganglion {b b, fig. 267.). Haase and then Scarpa clearly proved that in general the posterior roots alone passed into the spinal ganglia, and hence they are often denominated the ganglionic roots: the spinal ganglia are situated in the inter- vertebral foramina, those of the sacral region are inclosed in the sacral canal. Though it is generaOy to the nervous cord which emerges from this gang- lion, that the cord of the anterior root is applied and united, yet I would hasten to observe that the anterior root is not so completely unconnected with the ganglion as is commonly stated; thus, not unfrequently, the fibres of the an- terior root are united either to the outer end or to the middle of the ganglion. And, moreover, in the lumbar and sacral regions there is half a ganglion on each root. There are thirty pairs of spinal ganglia, and occasionally thirty-one, when the first pair of cervical nerves or the sub-occipital nerves are provided with them: the size of the ganglia bears no proportion to. the diameter of the inter- vertebral foramina, but depends on the number and size of the filaments of origin which pass into them, and of the nerves which are given off firom them. The cord which emerges from the ganglion is cylindrical, has a plexiform structure, and a furrowed aspect; it is impossible to ascertain what part of it belongs to the anterior and what to the posterior root; it gives off three sets of branches : —the posterior spinal branches, which supply the muscles and in- teguments of the posterior spinal region; the anterior spinal branches {see fig. 268.), the true continuation of the nerve, which are distributed to the lateral and anterior parts of the trunk and to the upper and lower extremities ; and the ganglionic spinal branches, which pass to the ganglia of the great sympathetic The ganglionic branches will be described with the ganglia of the great sympathetic. . . As the posterior branches have a close analogy in their mode of distribution, and may be exposed in the same dissection, they will be described under one ^^The anterior branches being destined for dissimilar parts, their individual distribution is exceedingly varied and complicated, so that a particular de- scription is requisite, if not of the anterior branches of each nerve, at least of those of the several sets of nerves. . Such are the characters common to all the spinal nerves at their central extremities, during their course within the vertebral canal, and at their exit from the intervertebral foramina. Let us next examine the characters proper to the nerves of each region. Proper Characters of the apparent Origins of the Nerves. Proper characters of the cervical nerves. The roots of these nerves ( fig. 268.), are much less oblique than those of the other spmal nerves