THE SUPERIOR AND MIDDLE THYROID VEINS. 783 The Lingual Veins. The lingual veins, being intended for a contractile organ, the circulation in which is on that account liable to be much interfered with, are divided, like the -veins of the limbs, into the superficial or submucous and the deep veins. The superficial veins of the dorsum of the tongue, which are generally named the lingual veins, occupy the dorsal region of the tongue, ramifying in a re- markable manner between the mucous membrane and the muscular fibres of that oro-an : all these veins open into a dorsal or superior lingual plexus, which is situated at the base of the tongue, and is joined by a great number of veins from the tonsils and epiglottis. The satellite vein of the lingual nerve emanates from this plexus, accompanies the lingual nerve, receives some branches from the sublingual glands and the tissue of the tongue, and enters the facial or the pharyngeal vein, or terminates directly in the external jugular, communicating freely with the ranine veins. The ranine veins are the superficial veins of the lower surface of the tongue. They are seen one upon each side of the frsenum, where they form a ridge be- neath the mucous membrane. Each of them accompanies the corresponding hypoglossal nerve, between the genio-hyoglossus and hyoglossus muscles, and terminates either in the common trimk of the lingual and facial veins, or di- rectly in the facial vein. The ranine veins communicate upon the sides of the tongue with a very large plexus, the vessels composing which are sometimes provided with valves, so that it is impossible to inject it in a direction from the heart towards the extremities of the veins, which, in other cases, may be done with the greatest facility. Lastly, the lingual veins, properly so called, are extremely small; they are two in number, and accompany the lingual artery throughout the whole of its course. Not unfrequently the veins of the tongue terminate directly in the internal jugular ; I have seen them open into the anterior jugular. The Pharyngeal Vein and Pharyngeal Plexus. The pharyngeal plexus. In making the section already described for ex- amining the pharynx, we observe round the back of that organ a considerable venous plexus, which foi-ms loops or rings embracing the pharynx ; several meningeal branches, and some, derived from the vidian and spheno-palatine veins, open into this plexus; from which a variable number of pharyngeal branches arise, and terminate by a common trunk, or by several distinct branches, in the lingual vein, sometimes in the facial or the inferior thyroid, and frequently in the internal jugular. Besides this plexus, which may be called the superficial pharyngeal plexus, an extremely dense network is found beneath the mucous membrane, from which branches proceed to join with those that arise from the superficial plexus just described. The Superior and the Middle Thyroid Veins. The superior thyroid, or thyro-laryngeal vein, commences upon the thyroid gland by branches corresponding to the thyroid arteries, and upon the larynx by branches corresponding to the ramifications of the superior laryngeal artery. The thyroid and laryngeal branches unite and end in the internal jugular vein, opposite the upper part of the larynx ; they perhaps end more frequently in the common trunk of the facial and lingual veins. It is not uncommon to find the superior laiyngeal branch terminating directly either in one or the other of these veins, or in the anterior jugular. The middle thyroid vein arises from the lower part of the lateral lobe of the VOL. II. 1,