1104 NEUROLOGY. vascular ramifications which surround the funiculi of this origin, require to be mentioned. The real origin of the ninth nerve cannot be traced beyond its apparent origin. It is certain that no fibres come from the pyramids : it has appeared to me that the fibres entered the substance of the olivary bodies, in -which they could not be traced to any depth. Cranial course. All the funiculi of origin of the hypoglossal nerve com- mence by two or three filaments, which are immediately covered by the neurilemma; they are then grouped into two or three bundles which pass horizontally outwards to the anterior condyloid foramen, through which (9, ^jr.296.) they almost always pass separately. Thus the dura mater forms two and sometimes three distinct canals for the hypoglossal nerve. DISTEIBUTION OF THE CRANIAL NERVES. TTie first pair or Olfactory nerves. — Tlie second or Optic nerves. — The third or Common Motor nerves. — The fourth or Pathetic nerves. — The fifth or Tri- geminal nerves — the Ophthalmic division of the fifth, and its lachrymal, frontal, and nasal branches —the ophthalmic ganglimi — the Superior Maxillary division of the fifth, and its orbital branch — the spheno-palatine ganglion, and its palatine, spheno-palatine, and vidian branches — the posterior and anterior dental, and the terminal branches of the superior maxillary nerve — the Inferior Maxillary division of the fifth — its collateral branches, viz. the deep temporal, the masseteric, buccal, and internal pterygoid, and auriculo-temporal—its terminal branches, viz. the lingual and inferior dental — the otic ganglion.—The sixth pair or External Motor nerves. — The seventh pair — the Portia Dura or the Facial nerve — its collateral branches —- its terminal branches, viz. the temporo-facial and cervico-facial — the Portio Mollis or Auditory nerve. — The eighth pair — its first portion or the Glosso-pharyngealnerve—its second portion or the Pneumo- gastric nerve, divided into a cranial, cervical thoracic, and abdominal part — its third portion or the Spinal Accessory nerve. — The ninth pair or the Hypo- glossal nerves. — General View of the Cranial nerves. The First Pair, or the Olfactory Nerves. Dissection. Harden the nerve in dilute nitric acid. Examine the pituitary membrane, not from its free surface, but from the surface which adheres to the periosteum. The nerve ramifies between the periosteum and the pituitary membrane. Before the time of Scarpa, the olfactory pedicles or bands and the ethmoidal bulb were the only parts well known ; the passage of the olfactory nerves through the foramina of the cribriform plate, and their distribution in the pituitary membrane were scarcely noticed. Passage of the olfactory nerves through the cribriform plate. I must here re- mind the student that the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone is perforated by foramina, or rather by different sets of canals which ramify in its substance; that some of these canals terminate directly upon the roof or upper wall of the nasal fossae, and that the others are divided into an internal set, which pass along the septum and end by becoming grooves, and an external set, which descend on the superior and middle turbinated bones and on the rough quadrilateral surface in front of them. „„-s v The olfactory nerves arise from the ethmoidal bulb i'l,fig- 296, 297.) by a considerable number of white bundles which immediately pass through the cribriform plate, and divide and ramify (d fig. 297.) in the same way as the bony canals themselves ; the dura mater forms a sheath for each of the sub- divisions of the nerve, and supports their soft substance. All these nervous filaments are distributed upon the septum (d) and upon the external wall (a fig 299.) of each nasal fossa; the anterior run forwards, the middle verti-