ANGEIOLOGY. 824 the tibia obliquely from without inwards ; so that all the superficial lymphatics at last gain the inner and back part of the internal condyle of the femur: from this point they incline forwards like the sartorius upon -which they are placed, and then pass vertically upwards, and are distributed to the different lymphatic glands of the groin. A certain number of lymphatic vessels which commence upon the outer border of the foot (there are not more than two or three), pass over the ex- ternal malleolus to reach the external saphenous vein, become sub-aponeurotic like that vein, and enter the most superficial of the popliteal glands. These lymphatics which accompany the external saphenous vein, are regarded by some authors as forming part of the deep set of vessels. Superficial lymphatics of the external genital organs, gluteal region, perineum, and lower part of the abdomen. The superficial lymphatic vessels from these parts also enter the inguinal glands. The superficial lymphatics of the external genital organs of the male are divided into those of the scrotum and those of the penis. If the skin of the scrotum be injected, several subcutaneous branches will be seen to pass from the net- work beneath the epidermis upwards along the sides of the penis, and then, after describing a curve with the concavity directed downwards, to open into the inguinal glands, generally into those which are nearest the middle line, but I have seen them pass to the glands surrounding the saphenous opening. If we inject the skin of the penis, and more especially the membrane covering the glans, the mercury penetrates into the dorsal lymphatics of the penis, and reaches the innermost and highest of the inguinal glands. The injection from the skin of the penis enters the superficial lymphatics; the injection from the membrane covering the glans enters only those superficial lymphatics, which accompany the dorsal bloodvessels of the penis. In the female, injections of the skin of the labia majora, and of the mucous membrane of the labia majora, labia minora, and clitoris, yield similar results as the injection of the scrotum and penis in the male. We know that diseases of the labia, nymphse, and clitoris, like those of the prepuce, penis, andscrotum, occasion enlargement of the inguinal lymphatic glands. The lymphatics of the perineum unite with the preceding and with the lymphatics of the lower extremities. The superficial lymphatics of the gluteal region turn horizontally round the glutaeus maximus and medius, and enter the external and middle lymphatic glands of the groin. This is the reason why furunculi or other dis- eases of the skin upon the nates may give rise to enlargement of the inguinal glands. , -,• 7 The superficial lumbar lymphatics, as well as those of the sub-umbihcal portion of the abdominal parietes, have a descending course : those of the loins run for- wards and downwards, those of the abdomen vertically downwards ; they both terminate in the outermost and highest of the inguinal glands; and hence diseases of the skin covering the lumbar and sub-umbilical regions may occa- sion swelling of the inguinal glands. . The lymphatic vessels which accompany the epigastric and circumflex iliac veins also enter the glands of the groin. The Lymphatic System of the Pelvic and Lumbar Regions. The Pelvic and Lumbar Lymphatic Glands. The lymphatic glands of the pelvis are divided into the external iliac, the internal iliac, and the sacraL _ , j „i„„„ The external iliac lymphatic glands, irregular in number, are situated along the artery of that name. Three of them require to be particularly noticed; they are situated immediately behind the femoral arch, one of ^ the outer side, another in front, and the thud on the mner side of the external