854 NEUROLOGY. From this structure it follows that the nose is inflexible above, flexible in the middle, and extremely movable below. This arrangement has the threefold advantage of providing against fractures of the most prominent part of the nose, of permitting the dilatation of the nostrils, and lastly, in consequence of the sobdity of the highest and narrowest part of the nasal fosss, of ensuring a tree passage to the air. The lateral cartilages of the nose (a a, fig. 231.) are of a triangular form ; Fig 231 ^''^ united together along their anterior margins, which are thick above, so as to form a sharp ridge, which constitutes the dorsum of the nose. Along the line of union there is a sort of furrow or groove, which can be felt even through the skin, By their upper and posterior margins, they are articulated with the nasal bones; I say articulated, be- cause there is no continuity of substance, but the parts are connected by fibrous tissue, which allows a considerable de- gree of motion. Their lower viargins are convex, and corre- spond in front to the cartilages of the alee of the nose, and behind to the fibrous tissue which occupies the intervals between the cartilages. The lateral cartilages are intimately united with the cartilage of the septum, along the dorsum of the nose ; so that we might regard these three pieces as forming a single cartilage. The thickest part of each lateral cartilage is above and in front. The cartilages of the nostrils are generally called, after Bichat, the fibro- curtilages of the alee of the nose; but we have already seen that some of the fibro-cartilages of Bichat are thin layers of ordinary cartilage, whilst others consist merely of condensed fibrous tissue. The so-called fibro-cartilages of the nostrils belong to the former kind. There is but a single cartilage on each side (b b, fig. 231.) for the ala nasi, the lobe, and the inferior portion of the septum ; it consists of an irregular lamina folded upon itself into a semi- ellipse or parabola, opening behind. We shall examine its external and in- ternal portions. The external portion (b) is extremely thin, and corresponds to the ala of the nose: it is not situated in the substance of the ala, but is placed above it, so that its lower margin corresponds to the curved furrow which forms the upper boundary of the ala.* The internal portion (J), fig. 232.) is thicker than the external, and is situated upon a lower plane than it: it corresponds, on the inside, to the internal portion of the cartilage of the opposite side, from which it is separated above by the eartilage of the septum. The internal portions of the two alar cartilages are separated from each other by some rather loose cellular tissue, which allows them to move upon each other, and also permits the cartilage of the septum to extend between them, without interfering with them at all. The internal portions of the cartilages of the alse do not reach the anterior nasal spine, but terminate abruptly at a certain distance from it, by forming a projection, which is very distinct, especially in some individuals, and which sensibly elevates the mucous membrane at the entrance of the nostrils. At the point of union between the internal and external portions of each alar cartilage, that is to say, at the summit of the parabola, the cartilage itself becomes wider and excavated behind, and assists in forming the lobe of the nose. The margins of these cartilages are irregularly notched or scolloped. The upper margins are united to the other cartilages by means of a fibrous tissue, which allows them to move freely, both upon the cartilage of the septum and upon the lateral cartilages of the nose. A small cartilaginous nodule is found on either side between the lobe of the nose and the cartilage of the septum; the only use of these nodules is to facilitate the movements of the lobe upon the septum. * [Two or three cartilaginous nodules e.Jig.%i\.) are genor.illy found appended in a curved line to the posterior extremity of this portion of tlie eartilage of the ala.]