924 NEUROLOGY. tached slowly, an immense number of vascular filaments, looking like hairs vill be seen emerging from the substance of the brain, remarkable for their extreme tenuity and length, and for having no anastomoses. Some drops of blood will indicate the points upon the surface of the brain, from which the vessels escape, and which, when examined through a lens, prove to be foramina. The use of the pia mater is connected solely with the circulation of blood through the brain. This membrane affords to the vessels a very large surface, on which the arteries divide into their capillary branches, and the veins unite into their larger and larger trunks. According to my observations, five-sixths of the vessels of the pia mater belong to the venous system. The pia mater is the nutritious membrane of the- brain, and may thus be re- garded as its neurilemma. It will afterwards be seen that the internal pia mater is connected with the arteries and veins of the walls of the ventricles, just as the external pia mater is with the external vessels. THE SPINAX CORD, AND THE MEDULLA OBLONGATA. General view of the Cord—its limits and situation— tlie ligamentum denticula- tum. — Size of the Spinal Cord — foi-m, directions and relations— the Cord in Us proper membrane — the proper membrane, or neurilemma of the Cord — the Cord deprived of its proper membrane. — Internal Structure of the Cord—sec- tions— examination by means of water — and when hardened in alcohol — the cavities or ventricles of the Cord. — The Medulla Oblongata — situation — external conformation — anterior surface, the anterior pyramids, and the olivary bodies — the posterior surface — the lateral stirfaces — the internal structure — sections — examination by dissection, and under water. — Developement of the Spinal Cord. — Developement of the Medulla Oblongata. — Comparative ana- tomy of the Spinal Cord. — Comparative anatomy of the Medulla Oblongata. The .spinal cord (/xveXhs pax""7)s, medulla spinalis; a b c, fg.268.') is that white, roundish, symmetrical, nervous trunk, which occupies the spinal canal; it is continuous with the encephalon, of which it has been alternately con- sidered the origin and the termination. It is called the medulla, in conse- quence of a rude analogy between it and the marrow of the long bones, in re- gard to its situation and consistence. Chaussier has substituted for this term the title of racliidian prolongation, but the generally received name of spinal marrow, which can give rise to no error, might be retained. * The Extent and Situation of the Spinal Cord. Authors are not agreed as to the superior limit of the spinal cord. The natural limit is evidently at the groove, between the medulla oblongata {a, fig. 268.) and the pons Varolii (e), which groove, on account of the great size of the pons in man, is much more distinctly marked in him than in those ver- tebrated animals in which the pons is also found. The spinal cord is situated in the median line, at the back part of the trunk; it is behind the organs of digestion, circulation, and respiration, f ♦ The first description of the spinal cord, which is worthy of notice, was given by Hubcr (.7. Huber,de Medulla Spinali. Goettingse, 1741) — it served as the basis for the works of Haller {Elcm. Pltyskil. torn. iv. sect. 1.); of Mayer, who published a beautiful plate of it in 1779 ; and perlKips of Alexander Monro, Secundus (Observntions on the Structure and Funcliuns <i/" the Nervous Siplem. 1783). Soemmerring, Reil, and Gall, who so successfully studied the other parts of tlie nervous system, have noticed the spinal cord in a superfici.il manner. Chaussier (De VEnceplinle en general ct en parlicnlier) \ Keuffel, in his inaupur.il dissertation U)c Me- dulla Spinali 1810, dedicated to Reil, his preceptor); and Rolando (Richerche Anatomiclie sulla Strultura del Midollo Spinale. Torino, 1824), have supplied m.my of the deficiencies m our knowledge of this part. There is a good description of the medulla in M.Ollivier s work upon the diseases to which it is subject. , t The position of the nervous axis behind the alimentiiry can.il <^ons'''"'«^p°'-'""^ *' ^.?'",J differences which exist between the nervous system ot the vertebratcd mA the nn ertebr.it. d animals ; in the latter, the nervous system lie? below, iii/r»n/ ol the alimentarj canal.