ANGEIOLOGY. ^^^'^ ^difff ences are more particularly observed in the right seg- ment of the mitral valve which projects Uke-an incomplete septum into the cavity of the ventricle, and appears to divide it into an aortic and an auricular portion ; the left segment of the valve (3,fig. 196.), on the contrary, is appUed against the walls of the venticle. The aortic orifice ie,fig. 194.) exactly resembles the pulmonary orifice of the right ventricle ; like that opening it is also provided with three sigmoid valves ( e,fig. 195.), which differ from those of the pubnonary artery merely in being stronger, and in having larger nodules or globules upon their free bor- ders ; aijd as Arantms admitted their existence only in these valves, they are therefore called globuli, noduli or corpora Arantii. The right auriculo-ventricular and arterial orifices are placed at a distance from each other, but the corresponding orifices of the left side are contiguous so that the adherent border of the right half of the mitral valve is continuous with the adherent border of the corresponding sigmoid valve; and hence it follows, that when these valves are removed, the base of the ventricle presents only one orifice. Interior of the Auricles. Dissection, of the right auricle. Make a horizontal incision from the auricula to the inferior vena cava, and then a vertical one from the vena cava superior perpendicularly to the first. Of the left auricle. Make a vertical incision from before backwards, between the right and left pulmonary veins, including the eutire posterior wall of the auricle. In order to have an accurate idea of the shape of the interior of the auricles, inject a heart with tallow or wax, and then examine the cast thus taken of their cavities. Interior of the Bight Auricle. The shape of the right auricle when distended may be compared to the seg- ment of an irregular oval, the long diameter of which is directed from before backwards. It has three walls : an anterior, which is convex ; an internal, which is slightly concave, and corresponds to the septum ; and a posterior, also concave, which forms the greatest part of the auricle, and is remarkable for the existence upon it of fleshy columns. The right auricle has four orifices in the adult, and five in the foetus, viz. the auriculo-ventricular orifice, the opening of the vena cava superior, that of the vena cava inferior, that of the coronary vein, and in the foetus the foramen ovale (trou de Botal), the situation of which is occupied in the adult by the fossa ovalis. The auriculo-ventricular orifice (see fig. 195.), the largest of all, is of an elliptical form, from sixteen to eighteen lines in its longest diameter, which is from before backwards, and about twelve lines in its shortest diameter. It is surrounded by a whitish zone (a q), to which is attached the adherent border of the tricuspid valve {ttt). The cavity of the auricle presents a sort of constriction opposite the auriculo-ventricular orifice. The orifice (Ji,fig. 193.) of the vena cava superior (d) is circular, and is di- rected downwards and a little backwards ; it has no valves ; it is bounded on the left by a projecting muscular band, which separates it from the auricle, and on the right by a less prominent band intervening between it and the vena cava inferior. The former of these two bands, which are distinctly marked upon the cast of wax, separates the fasciculated portion of the auricle from the non-fasciculated portion, which seems to be formed by an expansion of the venae cavse. Tlie orifice (i) of the vena cava inferior (r) opens into the auricle, near the septum, not perpendicularly upwards but horizontally, and at right angles to the original direction of the vein, which is vertical. The orifice is circular