DISTRIBUTION OF THE VEINS OF THE HEAD. 785 become very distinct in advanced life : they also communicate with the deep temporal veins on the exterior of the skull. The occipital diploic canals, two in number, a right and a left, communicate •with each other by a great number of branches, and open below into the oc- cipital veins. Summary of the Distribution of the Veins of the Head. Circulation in the brain. Corresponding to two of the arterial trunks, the common carotids, which convey blood to the head and neck, there are six veins, to return it back to the heart from the same parts, viz. the two internal, the two external, and the two anterior jugulars. This arrangement tends to prevent interruption of the venous circulation in the head, which, from so many causes, is liable to be distiirbed. The external and anterior jugular veins belong to the subcutaneous venous system, and may be regarded as supplementary veins which have no corresponding arteries, and which would be sufficient of them- selves to carry on the venous circulation; and as the veins of the right and left sides communicate very freely with each other, it follows that one of them would suffice to return the blood from the head. It will be seen hereafter, when describing the veins of the spine, that the obliteration of all the six ju- gular veins would not of necessity be followed by interruption of the venous circulation in the cranium. Lastly, it is important to observe, that the external and anterior jugulars open into the subclavian vein, whilst the internal jugular joins the inner end of the subclavian, to form the brachio-cephalic vein. We have seen that the lower part of the internal jugular vein represents the common carotid, and the upper part of it the internal carotid; and that the external carotid is represented by all the veins of the face and neck, which open into the internal jugular either by a common trunk, or by several dis- tinct branches. The cerebral venous system is remarkable for the extreme thinness of the parietes of the veins upon the brain, and for the existence of the sinuses, which take the place of the venous trunks, and differ so much in their distribution from the arteries. The cerebral veins are divided into the ventricular veins, which go to form the vense Galeni and the superficial veins of the brain. All of them run towards the sinuses, in which they terminate in succession like the barbs of a feather upon the common shaft, but do not acquire a great size. From the absence of valves at their orifices into the sinuses, the blood may regurgitate into them. The presence of the spongv areolar tissue at the orifices of these veins, together with their oblique course through the walls of the smus, must diminish this regurgitation: the communication of the cerebral veins with each other, and the continuity of the several sinuses, explain the varied means contrived for carrying on the cerebral circulation, which can only be interrupted by obliteration of the lateral sinuses. Lastly, the position of the principal sinuses opposite the fissures between the great divisions of the encephalon, and the resisting nature of the walls of the sinuses themselves, prevent the fatal effects which might otherwise ensue trom compression produced by obstruction of the venous circulation. Circulation in the parietes of the cranium. In the parietes of the cranium we fand, the veins of the dura mater, the veins of the diploe, the periosteal veins, and the veins of the hairy scalp. The nmnerous communications ^y,- 1=/ k^- i! Jf? these four systems of veins, and the direct communications established between the sinuses of the dura mater and the veins on the exterior of the skull, are worthy of particular attention. I would observe that the hlZ^ °f the same part, are situated exl^^. f% 'i^. 'P'"'""'^^'^^ aponeurosis. I have ascertained the existence of free and frequent anastomoses amongst these veins. As at the back of the cranium there is a very free communication between the occip td vein and the lateral sinus by means of a large vein, so, also, along the superSr L 2