CONTENTS. VU The Membranes qfthe Cerebrospinal Axis. T,. Tho Hnra mater —the cranial portion, its Structure and uses —tlie spinal - their uses. _ Tlic pia mater - its external cerebral portion - l-age 909 The Spinal Cord, mid the Medulla Oblongata. General view of the cord - its limits and situation - the ligamentum denticulatum. - Size of the sninTcord-form, directions, and relations - tlie cord in its proper membrane-the propi? membrane, or neurilemma of the cord-the cord deprived of its proper inembrane nStemal structure of the cord-sections-examination by means of water-and when i;;rdenS in alcohol - the cavities or ventricles of the cord. - The medulla oblongata - si- tuatior-e^^ternll conformation-anterior surface, the anterior pyramids and the olivary bodies ^ti^e posterior surface-the lateral surfaces-the internal structure-sections-exaxnin- ation by dissection, and under water. - Developement ot the spinal cord. - Developement of the medulla oblongata. - Comparative anatomy of the spinal cord. - Comparative ana- tomy of the medulla oblongata ------ The Isthmus of the Encephalon. General description and division— The pons Varolii and middle peduncles of the cerebellum — the peduncles of the cerebrum — the superior peduncles of the cerebellum and the valve of Vieussens — the corpora quadrigemina. — Internal structure of the isthmus, viz. of its inferior, middle, and superior strata. — Sections. — Developement, — Comparative anatomy - 946 The Cerebellum. General description External characters and conformation — furrows, lobules, lamiuffi, and lamellae. Internal conformation— the fourth ventricle, its fibrous layers, its inferior orifice, and its choroid plexus. — Sections of the cerebellum, vertical and horizontal. — Examination by means of water, and of the hardened cerebellum. — General view of the organ—Deve- lopement. — Comparative anatomy 954 The Ceeebrum, or Brain Proper. Definition — situation — size and weight — general form. — The superior or convex surface— The inferior surface or base — its median region, containing the interpeduncular space, the corpora albicantia, the optic tracts and commissure, the tuber cinereum, infundibulum, and pituitary body, the anterior part of the floor of the third ventricle, the reflected part of the corpus callosum, the anterior part of the longitudinal fissure, the posterior part of the longi- tudinal fissure, the posterior extremity of the corpus callosum and median portion of the transverse fissure, and the transverse fissure. — The lateral regions, including the fissure of Sylvius and the lobes of the brain.— The convolutions and anfractuosities of the brain, upon its inner surface, its base, and its convex surface — uses of the convolutions and anfractuosities. The intenial structure of the brain — examination by sections— horizontal sections showing the corpus callosum, the septum lucidum, the fornix and corpus fiinbriatum, the velum inter- positum, the middle or third ventricle, the aqueduct of Sylvius, the pineal gland, the lateral ventricles, their superior and inferior portions, the choroid plexus, and the lining membrane and the fluid of the ventricles ^—median vertical section — transverse vertical sections — section of Willis. — General remarks on this method of examining the brain. — Methods of " Varolius, Vieussens, and Gall. — Gall and Spurzheim's views on the structure of the brain. — General idea of the brain Developement Comparative anatomy - - 96* The Nerves, or the Peripheral Portion of the Nervous System, General remarks. — History and classification. — Origin, or central extremity. Different kinds— Course, plexuses, and anastomoses. — Direction, relations, and mode of division Termination. — Nervous ganglia, and the great sympathetic system Connexions of the ganglia with each other, and with the spinal nerves. —Structure of nerves. — Structure of ganglia—Preparation of nerves - - . . . -1016 Description of the Nerves. General remarks. — Division into spinal, cranial, and sympathetic nerves - - 1029- The Spinal Nerves. Enumeration and classification—The central extremities or origins of the spinal nerves — apparent origins —deep or real origins. —The posterior branches of the spinal nerves — common characters — the posterior branches of the cervical nerves, their common and orooer characters—the posterior branches of the dorsal, lumbar, and sacral nerves. — The anterior branches of the spinal nerves - their general arrangement - - - - 1030 . The Anterior Branches of the Cervical Nerves. Dissection. - Anteriot branch of the first, second, third, and fourth cervical nerves The cervical plexus-it., anterior br.inch, the superficial cervical-its ascending branch7s thl great auricular and the external or lesser occipital _ its superficial descendinf branches' the