722 ANGEIOLOGY. vein is on its outer side: both are in contact with the artery, which they se- parate from the nerves, and they are connected by several transverse branches, which embrace the artery. The median nerve is situated in front of the artery, excepting above, where it is on its outer side, and below, near the elbow, where it passes to its inner side; the median nerve sometimes crosses behind the artery. The ulnar nerve is placed on the inner side of the artery above, then passes behind it, and is lodged in a separate sheath. The musculo-spiral nerve is situated, together with the deep humeral artery, at first behind the brachial, but soon leaves it to turn round the humerus; lastly, the internal cutaneous follows the same course as the vessel, crossing it slightly from before backwards. From these relations it follows, that the vessel may be most efficaciously compressed from within outwards, against the inner surface of the humerus, and also that it may be tied in any part of its coui'se. At the bend of the elbow, the brachial artery occupies the middle of the ar- ticulation ; it is superficial in front, where it is only separated from the skin by the fascia and tendinous expansion of the biceps, and by the median basilic vein, which crosses it at a very acute angle; behind, it rests upon the brachialis anticus, by which it is separated from the elbow joint; on its inner side is the median nerve and pronator teres muscle, and on its outside, the tendon of the biceps, over which it soon crosses, and further outwards the supinator longus. In consequence of the superficial position of the brachial artery at the bend of the elbow, and from its relations with the median basilic vein and the elbow joint, it follows that this artery may be easily compressed, may be wounded in the operation of venesection, and may be lacerated in dislocations of the joint. Collateral branches. These may be divided into the external and anterior, and the internal and posterior. The external and anterior are very numerous, and are intended for the coraco- brachialis and biceps, which they penetrate at different heights, and also for the brachialis anticus. A very remarkable branch, which appears to me to be constant viz. the deltoid, passes transversely in front of the humerus, beneath the coraco-brachialis and the biceps, and terminates partly in the deltoid at its humeral insertion, and partly in the brachialis anticus. The internal and pos- terior branches are small, excepting those which enter the brachialis anticus directly: I have seen them all arise from the axillary by a large branch, given off from a common trunk with the sub-scapular and the posterior circumflex arteries. Whatever may be their mode of origin, four of these collateral branches are remarkable for their regular distribution, viz. the deep humeral, the internal collateral, the superficial branch for the internal portion of the triceps, and the superficial branch for the brachialis anticus. The two former only have received particular names. The deep humeral artery (jirofunda superior, k,fig. 210.), called also the ex- ternal collateral from its terminating on the outer side of the articulation of the elbow, arises from the brachial, opposite the lower border of the teres major. It occasionally comes off by a common trunk with the posterior circumflex, which in that case, arises from the brachial, instead of the axillary arterj'. It passes downwards and backwards, gains the groove for the musculo-spiral nerve, and traverses the whole extent of that groove together with the nerve. In this part of its course it is situated between the triceps muscle and the hu- merus as it turns round tixe posterior surface of that bone; below the insertion of the deltoid it emerges from the groove, between the brachiahs anticus and the triceps, and divides into a deep branch, which continues with the nerve, and a superficial branch. The former is distributed essentially to the triceps muscle, and sometimes comes off directly from the brachial; it passes vertically downwards in the substance of the triceps, suppUes its internal and externa portions, and terminates in them by anastomosing freely with the collateral branches situated around the elbow-joint. The superficial branch perforates