NEUROLOGY. sacculus is), and the smallest ends in the ampulla of the inferior vortical membranous semicircular canal * ' ^tuicai Bloodvessels may be traced into the membranous labyrinth ; most of them enter by the internal auditory meatus; those ^vhich belong to the cochlea pass through the foramina m the modiolus, and are distributed in a radiatintr manner like the nerves. ° THE CEREBRO-SPINAL AXIS. General Observations. The cerebrospinal axis constitutes the central portion, whilst the nerves form the peripheral portion of the nervous system. The apparatus of innervation formed by the cerebro-spinal axis and the nerves together, and named the nervous system, is the most important part in the animal machine ; it is the source not only of sensation and motion, but of the uni- versal sympathy existing between the several parts of the animal economy ; and that part of it called the brain, performs the highest function allotted to organised beings, by becoming the immediate instrument of the soul in the exercise of the intellectual faculties. The cerebro-spinal axis consists of that soft, pulpy, elongated, and symme- trical mass of nervous substance, which becoming enlarged at its upper part, occupies the vertebral canal and the cavity of the cranium, and forms the centre from which the nerves of all parts of the body take their origin, or in which they all terminate. The structure of no other organ in the body excites so much curiosity, and unfortunately there is none whose structure is involved in greater obscurity. Notwithstanding the real advances that have recently been made in our knowledge of the anatomy of the brain, we must still acknowledge with Steno, that the human mind, which has carried its investigations even into the heavens, has not yet been able to comprehend the nature of the instrument by which its own operations are performed, and that its powers seem to abandon it as soon as it turns its attention to the organ in which it resides. Until the end of the last century, the study of the central portion of the nervous system consisted in a simple enumeration of its parts, or rather in a more or less im- perfect description of its external surface, and of the different objects displayed by various sections. The nomenclature of the difiFerent parts of the encepha- lon f is alone enough to shew with what limited views the researches of those anatomists must have been made, who did not suspect that this pulpy-looking mass, a suflacient definition of which they believed to be, that it held an in- termediate place between the solids and the fluids of the body, was as won- derful in the delicacy and intricacy of its structure, as in the importance and elevated character of its functions. In the present day, anatomists include in the study of the encephalon, not only the topographical study of its various constituent parts, but also the determination of the mode in which those parts are connected together. To ascertain this latter point, apart from all ques- tions as to origin, formation, generation, and reinforcement, with which the * [The nervous filaments proceeding to the utricle and saccule form a fan-like expansion upon those sacs, penetrate into their interior, and spread out as a nervous layer on their internal surface. Each of the nerves which are distributed to the membranous ampulla; appears to bifurcate, so as partially to embrace its corresponding ampulla in a transverse direction ; the nervous filaments thcu penetrate into the .impulla, and spread out upon a tr.-in6verse s«ptiim, formed in its interior by the I'olding inwards of the walls of the cavity, and also upon iiie aa- jacent parts of those walls. {Si-e SUi/ejisand, MiiUcr's Arch. m5.)] ..... „., „r t KroniiK, In, nml xiifxKv, the head; a convenient term used to signify that p.ut oi uio ccrebro-spinal axis which is situated within the cranium.