ANGEIOLOGY. 716 it resumes its vertical direction, paraUel to the border of that bone, as low down as the sixth rib, where it divides into an internal and an external branch. _ lielalions. It is situated in front of the scalenus anticus, and is covered at Its origin by the phrenic nerve, which crosses it very obliquely, in order to reach its inner side; it corresponds to the inner end of the clavicle, from ■which it is separated by the brachio-cephalic vein ; it is then placed behind the costal cartilages and the intercostal muscles, in front of the pleura, from which it is separated by the triangularis sterni. It is situated about two lines to the outer side of the margin of the sternum, so that a cutting instrument may be carried into the thorax along that bone without injuring the internal mammary; the name substernal is, therefore, not at all applicable to this artery, which would be better named sub-cliondro-costal. Collateral branches. These are very numerous ; they may be divided into the posterior, anterior, and external. The posterior branches are, the thymic or anterior mediastinals, and, lower down, the superior phrenic, an extremely small artery, which runs along the phrenic nerve, is situated, like it, between the pericardium and the corresponding layer of the mediastinum, and reaches and is ramified in the diaphragm. Bichat has seen the superior phrenic artery as large as the internal mammary itself The external branches are the anterior intercoslals. Their number corre- sponds with that of the intercostal spaces : they are smaU in the first two, and gradually increase or diminish according to the length of the corresponding spaces. I have seen the common trunk for the third intercostal space so large, that it appeared like a bifurcation of the mammary. There are generally two branches for each intercostal space : one, which runs along the lower margin of the rib above, and the other along the upper margin of the rib below. These two branches sometimes arise separately from the mammary, sometimes by a common trunk ; as they arise above the level of the space for which they are intended, it foUows that they pass obliquely behind the costal cartilages. The anterior intercostals inosculate with the aortic or posterior intercostals, so that it is sometimes impossible to determine the limits between these two sets of vessels. In some subjects they form a communicating arch of uniform caliber, extending between the internal mammary and the thoracic aorta. The anterior branches are superficial, and correspond in mmiber to the inter- costal spaces ; they arise from the internal mammary, pass directly from behind forwards, through the corresponding intercostal space, and divide into cutaneous and muscular branches, both of which sets curve outwards, the muscular branches beneath the pectoralis major, in which they ramify, and the cutaneous branches beneath the skin. The anterior branches of the first three spaces are dis- tributed to the mammary gland. In females recently delivered, and in nurses, these branches become extremely large, especially the second, which I have seen as large as the radial artery, and very tortuous. Before perforating the intercostal muscles, the anterior branches send some periosteal twigs behind the sternum, some of which penetrate the bone directly, whilst others ramify- on the periosteum. Terminal branches. Of the two tenninal branches, the internal, and smaller, continues the original coui-se of the artery, passes behind the rectus abdominis muscle, enters its sheath, and then divides into a great number of branches ; some of these are lost in this muscle by anastomosing with the capillary divisions of the epigastric, while the others emerge from the sheath of the rectus by special openings, and are distributed to the broad muscles of the abdomen, and to the integuments. Before leaving the cartilage of the seventh rib, it gives oif a small twig, which passes inwards upon the side of the ensiform cartilage, and forms an anastomotic arch with its fellow of the opposite side, in front of that cartilage. The anastomosis of this artery with the epigastric, which has been known from the very earliest periods, and afforded the ancients an explanation of the intimate physiological connections between the genital