NEUROLOGY. 1080 nerve gives off a branch which might be called the external perineal {posterior superficial perineal); this branch perforates the great sacro-sciatic ligament, passes by the internal surface of the tuberosity of the ischium, turns inwards and downwards, and then beneath the tuberosity, runs along the crus of the corpus cavernosum, and is lost in the dartos and scrotum in the male, and in the substance of the labia majora in the female. I have seen this nerve give a branch to the coccygeus, and two branches to the sphincter. This external perineal branch moreover presents many varieties. In some cases it terminates by anastomosing with the superficial branch of the perineum. In one case, in which the external perineal branch was very small, it was rein- forced by a branch from the inferior gluteal or lesser sciatic nerve, which crossed the outer side of the tuberosity of the ischium, and united, in front of that tuberosity, with the external perineal branch. The terminal branches of the perineal nerve. The superficial (anterior- super- ficial) perineal nerve follows the superficial artery of the perineum, passes like it obliquely inwards and forwards, through the cellular interval between the ischio-cavernosus and bulbo-cavernosus, receives a rather large filament from the external perineal branch, and almost always divides into several remarkably long filaments which pass through the dartos, some reaching the bottom of the scrotum, whilst others, running along the lower surface of the penis, are distributed to the skin of that organ, and may be traced as far as the prepuce. The bulbo-urethral nerve, the second terminal branch of the perineal nerve, passes above and sometimes through the fibres of the transversus perinei muscle, supplies some small branches to the anterior part of the compressor urethraj and the posterior part of the bulbo-cavemosus, furnishes a bulbar branch which dips into the substance of the bulb, and then expands into very delicate filaments on the corpus spongiosum. The Deep Branch of the Internal Pudic, or the Dorsal Nerve of the Penis. This is the highest of the terminal divisions of the internal pudic nerve, and corresponds to the deep branch of the internal pudic artery. It is at first ap- plied, together with that vessel, against the internal surface of the tuberosity of the ischium, and passing upwards between the levator ani and obturator in- ternus, gains the arch of the pubes; it then runs forwards among the subpubic veins through the several ligamentous structures below the arch, and reaches the dorsum of the penis, where it is situated at the side of the suspensory ligament. Having now become the dorsal nerve of the penis, it runs along that organ in the median line, like the dorsal artery, but super- ficially to that vessel, and divides into an internal and an external branch. The internal branch, or branch for the gla?is penis, continues in the original course of the nerve upon one side of the median line, becomes more deeply seated as it runs forwards, but -without entering the corpus cavernosum, and thus arrives at the corona glandis ; at this point it expands and passes deeply between the base of the glans and the corpus cavernosum, gives no filament to the latter, but is entirely distributed to the glans, penetrating that part by extremely delicate filaments, which traverse the spongy tissue, and may be traced, at least in a great measure, to the papilla on the surface of the glans. The' external or cutaneous branch, which is more superficial, comes off from the preceding at a very acute angle, passes obliquely upon the sides of the penis, and expands into a number of very long and slender filaments, some of which lie in contact with the corpus cavernosum, and supply it with very slender filaments, whilst others run in the subcutaneous cellular tissue, and are distributed to the skin of the penis ; a considerable number terminate in the prepuce The external branch of the dorsal nerve of the penis supplies tJ.e skin upon the three upper fourths of the circumference of the penis. Tlie peri- neal branches supply that of the lower fourth. I have notfound '^yjj^^'^^ the internal pudic nerve corresponding to the artery of the coitus cavemosun,.