THE RADIAL ARTERY. 725 G 4 number of branches proceed obliquely downwards and outwards, and are dis- tributed to all the muscles on the external aspect of the fore-arm, viz. the long and short supinators, and the two radial extensors. One of these branches passes transversely between the long supinator and the long radial extensor, to anastomose on the outer condyle with the profunda artery; others pass be- tween the radius and the muscles attached to it, ramifying in the extensor muscles of the fore-arm, and anastomose with the posterior interosseous artery derived from the ulnar. The anterior carpal branch of the radial artery is a small branch (a, fig. 211.) which passes transversely inwards at the lower margin of the pronator quadratus muscle, and anastomoses with a similar branch from the ulnar artery. The radio-palmar or superficial palmar artery {superficialis voice, .i,fig. 210.) arises at an acute angle from the inner side of the radial, at the point where that vessel tui-ns outwards to pass over the carpus. Sometimes its origin is situated at the junction of the lower with the two upper thirds of the fore-arm. It varies much in its size and distribution; most commonly it passes vertically downwards, on a level with the anterior ligament of the carpus, perforates the origin of the short abductor of the thumb, and anastomoses with the extremity of the superficial palmar arch (0 of the ulnar (</). Several branches arise from its convexity, and are distributed to the muscles and integuments of the ball of the thumb. The radio-palmar branch is frequently very small, is entirely lost in those muscles, and does not assist in the formation of the superficial palmar arch. On the contrary, it is often so large, that it may be regarded as formed by the bifurcation of the radial, and then assists as much as the ulnar in forming the superficial palmar arch. In some cases in which the superficial palmar arch did not exist, I have seen the radio-palmar give origin to the in- ternal collateral artery of the thumb, both collateral arteries of the index, and the external collateral of the middle finger, the ulnar artery furnishing the collaterals of the other fingers. In one case a transverse branch, resembling the anterior communicating artery of the brain, foi'med the anastomosis be- tween the radio-palmar and the ulnar arteries. The second or carpal portion of the radial artery extends from the styloid process of the radius to the upper part of the first interosseous space. Closely applied to the ligaments and bones of the carpus, it passes at first obliquely downwards and inwards, and then becomes vertical as it dips into the interos- seous space, to pass between the two heads of the first dorsal interosseous muscle. It is well protected on the outer side of the carpus by the projecting tendons of the two extensors and the long abductor of the thumb, all of which cross it obliquely, and separate it from the skin ; but between the tendons of the long abductor of the thumb and the long radial extensor it becomes sub-aponeurotic, and therefore very superficial. lu this short course it gives ofi' several branches. The dorsal carpal branch of the radial artery, more remarkable for its constancy and the mode of its distribution than for its size, which is incon- siderable, arises opposite the articulation of the two rows of carpal bones, passes transversely inwards, and terminates either by being lost in the ad- jacent parts, or by anastomosing with the corresponding branch of the ulnar artery. From the arch thus formed proceed certain ascending branches, which anastomose with twigs from the anterior interosseous artery, sometimes ap- pearing to form the termination of that vessel, which, as we shall presently describe, becomes posterior at the lower part of the fore-arm ; and also some descending branches, of very variable size, which having reached the upper part ot the third and fourth interosseous spaces in particular, anastomose with the perforating branches of the deep palmar arch, and form one of the origins ot the small twigs, which are named the dorsal interosseous arteries of those spaces. The dorsal interosseous branch fi)r the second space, known also as the dorsal metacarpal branch of the radial artery, is sometimes so large that it seems to