THE POPLITEAL ARTERY. 749 On the inner side, this artery is in relation with the semi-membranosus, the inner condyle of the femur, and the inner head of the gastrocnemius. On its outer side, it has the biceps, the outer condyle, the outer head of the eastrocnemius, and also the plantaris and soleus muscles. ^ ColLral branches. The popliteal artery gives olF from its posterior aspect several small branches, which pass into the muscles of the ham ; most of them are not named; but there are some which are distinguished as the sural ar- teries • in front it gives several arteries, named articular, because they surround the knee like the collateral arteries of the elbow joint. The articular arteries are divided into superior, middle, and inferior; the superior and inferior would have been better named the collateral arteries of the knee. The sural arteries (g g,figs. 215. 217.) are two in number, one internal tor the inner head of the gastrocnemius, and the other external for the outer head of the same muscle. Arising from the back of the popliteal artery, they pass downwards and backwards, are separated from each other by the internal po- pliteal nerve, enter the anterior and internal surface of each head of the gas- trocnemius a little before the two heads meet, and may be traced down to the lower part of the fleshy belly of that muscle. Generally one of their branches accompanies the external saphenous nerve from the popliteal space to the upper part of the tendo Achillis. The superior articular or collateral arteries of the knee are divided into in- ternal and external. The internal superior articular arteries are sometimes three, but most coni- monly two in number, one of which arises higher than the other; their origin is subject to variety, but they are constant in their distribution. We shall dis- tinguish them as the first and second. The first internal superior articular artery, usually called the great anastomotic artery of the knee, is the largest of the whole ; it arises opposite the point where the femoral becomes the popliteal artery, and sometimes even from the lower part of the femoral itself; it perforates the adductor magnus from behind for- wards, and immediately divides into four descending branches ; the first is a muscular branch (j,fig. 214.), which enters the substance of the vastus internus, passes inwards and downwards to reach the inner border of the tendon of the triceps, and opposite the base or upper border of the patella perforates the fibres of the muscle, becomes superficial, and runs transversely outwards along the base of the patella, and forms an anastomotic arch with the external superior articular artery. The second and third branches are periosteal; one of them passes between the triceps and the femur, with which it is in contact, and terminates above the trochlea of that bone by anastomosing (at s) with the external superior and the second internal superior articular arteries ; while the other runs along the adductor magnus, being held down against it by a layer of fibrous tissue, and anastomoses with the second internal superior ar- ticular artery, supplying its place when that vessel is only in a rudimentaiy state. The fourth branch (li) accompanies and supplies branches to the in- ternal saphenous nerve : it appears to be constant: it is placed under the sar- torius, along which it runs, together with the internal saphenous nerve, con- tinuing with it below that muscle. _ The second internal superior articular artery (Ji,figs. 215. 217.) arises imme- diately above the inner condyle of the femur, turns round it horizontally, and divides into condyloid branches, which cover the condyles with their ramifi- cations, and communicate partly with the first internal superior articular artery, and partly with the external superior articular artery coming from the opposite side. It also gives off a patellar branch which runs upon the borders of that bone, supplies the skin and the synovial membrane of the knee joint, and.anas- tomoses with the internal inferior articular artery. The external superior articular artery (i, figs.2\5—2\1.) arises opposite the second internal superior, turns horizontally round the outer condyle of the lemur, gives off some ascending muscular branches, which ramify in the vastus