NEUROLOGY. 952 cerebrum, thpugli the pons may be regarded as a type of the structure of the nervous centre. The two sets of fibres are intermixed in the pons, so as to intersect each other at right angles, but they maintain their individuality. » The pons presents neither a raphe nor a septum in the median line • the fibres of the right half are continuous with those of the left. The white fksci- culated fibres (6') of the peduncles of the cerebrum, which are continuous with the anterior pyramids (6), form part of the inferior stratum of the isthmus; these fasciculated fibres are parallel and perfectly white, without any inter- mixture of grey matter. Internal Structure of the Middle Stratum of the Isthmus. When the pons, or in other words the successive layers of the inferior por- tion or stratum of the isthmus, have been removed, the middle stratum is exposed. This may be very easily displayed in a brain that has been well hardened in alcohol. It is then seen that this middle stratum is formed by a prolongation of the fasciculi of rein- forcement (faisceaux innomin(s) of the medulla oblongata, which becomes en- larged in passing above the pons, and still more so opposite the peduncles of the cerebrum, above which we shall trace them presently. This prolonga- tion (I, fig. 274.) then passes through the pons at right angles. It was doubt- less to illustrate this arrangement that Varolius described the medulla when viewed from below as passing beneath the pons like the water of a canal under a bridge. This reinforcing bundle, pointed out by Rolando {Recherches sur la Moelle Alongee, 1822), under the appellation of the middle fasciculus, has been correctly represented by Mr, Herbert Mayo. Those portions (c, fig. 269. A) of the bundles of reinforcement which corre- spond to the peduncles of the cerebrum are separated from the superficial part of the peduncles themselves (a) by a layer of black or blackish matter (6): opposite the peduncles, these two bundles are intimately united f, but they soon diverge to enter the optic thalami. Are they simply in juxtaposition, or do they interlace at the point in which they appear to be blended ? I am in- clined to believe that they do interlace; but I have not yet been able to demon- strate this clearly, because they do not consist of very distinct bundles. Internal Structure of the Upper Stratum of the Isthmus. The superior peduncles of the cerebellum are fasciculated : their lower extre- mities (r, fig. 274:.) assist in forming the central nucleus of the cerebellum; their upper extremities (r') expand into a great number of fibres, some of which terminate upon the anterior wall of the fourth ventricle, on each side of the median line, whilst others form a loop below the tubercula quadrigemina. Structure of the tubercula quadrigemina. Reil, who first examined the struc- ture of the tubercula quadrigemina, considers them as consisting of four ♦ The continuity of the pyramids with the peduncles of the cerebrum, through the inferior portion of the pons, was accurately described and figured by Varolius (De Nervis Oplicisnon- nttllisqite aliis, 1573), by Vieussens [Neurographia Universalis, tab. 16.), by Morgagni (.Adver- saria Analomica, v.), and by Vicq d'Azyr. Vieussens showed this continuity by lacerating the pons. Vicq d'Azyr showed it by successively removing the thin layers of the pons by means of a cutting instrument. The plates given by Gall surpass those of his predecessors in execution, but not in a scientific point of view. . , . t [They here constitute the so-called intcgiimentum (c. Jig. 2G9. A), the black substance is railed the locus nigcr (6), and the superficial part of the peduncle is named the crust or basis (n).]