NEUROLOGY. 1062 The skin of the external surface of the arm receives its nerves from the cutaneous branches of the circumflex nerve, and from the external cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral. The skin of the internal and anterior regions of the arm receives its nerves from the internal cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral, from the accessory nerve of the internal cutaneous, which anastomoses with the second intercostal, from a small branch of the internal cutaneous, and from the humeral branch of the third intercostal. The skin of the fore-arm receives its filaments from the internal cutaneous, which anastomoses with the cutaneous filaments of the musculo-spiral, ulnar,' and musculo-cutaneous nerves. The skin of the dorsal region of the hand and of the fingers receives its fila- ments from the dorsal branches of the radial nerve, in the two external thirds of that region, and from the dorsal branch of the ulnar nerve in the internal third. The skin of the palmar region of the hand and fingers receives its fila- ments from the median nerve in the two external thirds, and from the ulnar in the internal third, or to speak more precisely, the median nerve supplies the external and internal collateral branches of the thumb, the index, and the middle fingers, and the external collateral nerve of the ring finger ; the ulnar nerve supplies the external and internal collateral nerves of the little finger, and the internal collateral branch of the ring finger. Some of the terminal branches of the median nerve, and the terminal divi- sions of the internal cutaneous and musculo-cutaneous, are lost in the skin of the upper part of the palm of the hand. The palmar collateral nerves of the fingers offer the following peculiarities : the branches which they give to the skin are placed either opposite to each other, or alternately ; each of these branches terminates separately in a pencil of filaments ; the twigs from the internal branches do not anastomose with those from the external; lastly, the terminal extremities of the external and internal collateral branches do not anastomose with each other in the pulp of the finger, but expand separately, and are distributed to the skin of the pulp and to the skin under the nail. The branches which supply the palmar aspect of the fingers present a very remarkable condition*, consisting in the presence of small, greyish, gangliform bodies, always of a crescentic form. These bodies are very numerous; they are sometimes separate, and sometimes arranged in groups ; they do not es- sentially belong to the nerves, but are applied to them, and may be separated from them by slight force. They are therefore not ganglia. If we consider that these gangliform bodies occupy the palmar region only, and are never found in the dorsal region, that they exist in the sole of the foot as well as in the palm of the hand, that they have been found upon the nerves which surround the articulations, and consequently upon nerves which are subjected to constant pressure, that I have even found them upon an in- tercostal nerve which was reflected over the side of the sternum, and lastly, that they do not exist in the infant at birth, and are more numerous in pro- portion as the palm of the hand is more callous, we shall be warranted in con- cluding that they are the result of external pressure. THE ANTERIOR BRANCHES OF THE DORSAL NERVES, OR THE INTERCOSTAL NERVES. Dissection. Enumeration.—Common Characters.—Characters proper to each. Dissection. Search carefully for the cutaneous branches, some of which are to be found opposite the sides of the sternum, and others about the middle of the intercostal spaces. Saw through the sternum in the median line, and open the everted skin represents a sort of glove, the inner surface of which is formed hy the epi- dermis, and the outer by the deep surface of the skin. • . . , J N f,l>. P:,rllllv hv • This was pointed out, in one of the last concours of the assistants (aides) of the hacuit), "> MM. Andral, Camus, and Lacroix, who had to dissect the cutaneous nerves of the hand.