DEEP VEINS OF THE LOWER EXTREMITIES. 799 and hence the walls of these veins are contractile. I have stated elsewhere, that in reference to its veins, we may consider the uterus as consisting of an erectile tissue with muscular walls ; it is scarcely necessary to add, that these sinuses are unequaUy developed in different parts of the uterus, and that the point to which the placenta has been attached may be recognised by the greater size ofthe adjacent uterine sinuses. „ ^ . . The veins contained within the substance of the walls of the uterus do not open into the uterine veins alone ; several of them terminate in the ovarian veins, which communicate freely with the uterine, and may, if necessary, supply their place. . , , . , . ^ , The great size acquired by the uterme vems, both m the substance and on the surface of the uterus, proves that the venous apparatus plays an important part in the interstitial developement of this organ. Moreover, the size of the veins and venous plexuses belonging to all the genito-urinary organs, and the essentially venous structure of such organs as are capable of being erected, prove that the venous system performs an essen- tial part in the truly active phenomena of erection. It is partly upon these anatomical and physiological arguments that I have endeavoured to show the active part performed by the veins in all the great phenomena of the economy, such as nutrition, secretion, inflammation, &c. The pelvic veins are provided with a great number of valves, which prevent injections from passing from the heart towards their extremities ; it ought to be remembered, that the venous plexuses of the pelvis establish a very im- portant and very free communication between the veins of the right and left sides of the body. The Deep Veins of the Lower Extremity. The veins of the lower extremities, like those of the upper, are divided into the deep veins or venae comites of the arteries, and the superficial veins. 7%e Plantar, Posterior Tibial, Peroneal, Dorsal, Anterior Tibial- and Popliteal Veins. The external and internal plantar veins unite to form the posterior tibial, which accompanies the artery of that name, and soon joins the peroneal vein, to constitute the tibio-peroneal vein: again, the anterior tibial vein, which commences by the vena dorsalis pedis, perforates the upper part of the inter- osseous ligament, joins the tibio-peroneal vein, and in this way forms the po- pliteal vein. Up to this point there are two venae comites for each artery, one of the veins being placed on each side of the artery, across which they very frequently send communicating branches. The peroneal veins are ge- nerally larger than the posterior tibial, and receive all the muscular veins from the posterior and outer regions of the leg. Commencing with the popliteal, there is only one vein for the main artery of the limb; but the arteries of the second and third order always have two veins. The popliteal vein is situated in the popliteal space, behind and in contact with the artery. Its coats are remarkably thick, so that when cut across it remains open, and in the dead body has been sometimes mistaken for the artery. Below, and'opposite the articulation of the knee, the vein is situated immediately behind the artery, above the joint it is behind, and a little to the outer side. The popliteal vein receives the large bundles of veins, the sural veins, from the gastrocnemius muscle : they are remarkable for the number of their valves; also the articular veins, and generally the external saphenous vein. I have seen a small vein having very numerous valves, and being analogous to the VOL. II. M