THE EXTERNAL CHARACTERS OF THE SKIN. 837 o 4 External Characters. Examined in reference to its external characters, the skin presents an ex- ternal or free surface, and an internal or adherent surface. The free surface. Upon the free surface of the skin the following objects require attention: its folds, or wrinkles, and its furrows; a peculiar colour, which is subject to variety in different races of men, and in different indivi- duals • certain horny growths, as the nails and hairs, which are appendages of the skin; and, lastly, numerous orifices for the escape of the cutaneous secre- tions some of them being the orifices of the sebaceous follicles, others of the sudorific glands, whilst others again are the foramina, or depressions through which the hairs protrude. The horny growths of the skin will be noticed presently; and its colour and orifices, or pores, will be examined under the head of its structure. We shall here make a few remarks upon the different folds or wrinkles found in the surface of the skin: they are of several kinds. Some of them may be termed folds of locomotion; they are permanent, and are inherent, as it were, in the skin itself, and have distinct relations to the various movements of the body. They are of two kinds ; the larger folds are observed around the joints, both on the aspect of flexion, and that of extension : for ex- ample, over the knuckles, and in the palms of the hands; the small folds are found over the whole surface of the skin, which is divided by them into irre- gular lozenge-shaped intervals: it is to these folds that the skin owes its ex- tensibility. Other folds, called wrinkles, are produced by the contraction of subcutaneous muscles; such as the transverse wrinkles produced by the action of the occi- pito-frontalis, the vertical wrinkles by that of the corrugatores supercilii, and the radiated folds caused by the contractions of the orbicularis palpe- brarum, the orbicularis oris, and the sphincter ani. These wrinkles, like the contraction of the muscles by which they are produced, are only transitory ; but they become permanent when their causes are frequently repeated. In the same class as these we must include the corrugations of the skin of the scrotum, from contraction of the dartos. The folds or wrinkles resulting from age and from emaciation depend upon the skin becoming, after more or less distension, too much stretched, and, therefore, too loose to fit closely to the parts beneath. Hence, emaciation in young subjects does not produce the same effects as in the aged; for in the latter, the wrinkles are caused by the want of elasticity in the skin, and they are more distinct in proportion as that property is lost. In cases of extreme distension, when the skin has been altered in its texture, the wrinkles are more marked and are permanent: as, for example, those observed on the abdomen of females after pregnancy, and of either sex after dropsy. Furrows between the papilla;. It is necessary carefully to distinguish from the folds or wrinkles of the skin those more or less regular but slight furrows which exist between the linear ridges or eminences formed by the cuta- neous papillee in the palm of the hand and the sole of the foot, and which are also found, though in a less marked degree, in all other parts of the body. Adherent surface of the skin. In mammiferous animals the skin is lined throughout the greater part of its extent by a layer of muscular fibres, which are mtended to act upon it, and constitute the cutaneous muscle or panniculus carnosus; but m man the only traces of this structure are the platysma myoides and the palmaris brevis. The subcutaneous muscles of the human subject are concentrated in the face. It follows, therefore, that, although in animals the passions can be expressed by movements of the entire surface of the body, in man their ex- pression IS limited to the face. It has been erroneously supposed that the phenomenon termed cutis anserina, or goose-skin, a corrugated condition of the