884 NEUROLOGY. camference adheres intimately to that membrane, or rather to the ciliary zone of Zinn. •' Its internal surface does not appear in the slightest degree adherent to the lens. If an incision be made into this capsule in the living subject, the lens IS forced out merely by the tonicity of the coats of the eye. The anterior segment of the capsule is twice as thick as the posterior: it might be com- pared to a layer of the cornea. * It receives bloodvessels derived from the arteria centralis retinae.f These vessels, according to Meckel, are distributed only upon the posterior half of the capsule; those which belong to the anterior half arise from the vessels of the ciliary processes. Some anatomists believe that these vessels send ramifications between the different concentric laminse of the crystalline lens, for its nutrition; but I am not aware that they have ever been demonstrated. No nerves have been discovered in the crystalline lens. M. Duges believes that the retina gives off some nervous filaments which reach as far as the lens, and spread out upon its capsule; but after the most careful examination I am convinced that such is not the case. The Aqueous Humour and its Membrane. The term aqueous humour is applied to a perfectly limpid and transparent fluid, which occupies the two chambers of the eye. These two chambers, which have been correctly understood only since the discovery of the true seat of cataract in the crystalline lens, correspond to that small portion of the cavity of the eye which is situated between the cornea and the lens (see fig. 241.). The space between these two parts is divided unequally by the iris (i) into two chambers — an anterior and larger, which is called the anterior chamber; and a posterior and smaller, named the posterior chamber. These two chambers com- municate through the pupil (p). The existence of the posterior chamber was long disputed, but it may easily be proved by freezing the eye : and by the same experiment we may obtain an approximation to the relative capacity of the two chambers, which will be found as 3 to 1, the anterior being decidedly the larger. The total quantity of the aqueous humour is about five grains ; 100 parts of it are found to contain 98*1 of water, with traces of albumen and chloride of sodium. The membrane of the aqueous humour. It is now generally admitted that the aqueous humour is secreted by a special membrane, called the membrane of the aqueous humour, or membrane of Demours, although it had been previously de- scribed by Zinn andDescemet. This membrane, according to Demours, lines the posterior surface of the cornea (m,fig. 241.), and is reflected upon the front of the iris. At this point, according to most anatomists, it is lost, and cannot be traced to the pupil; but, according to others, it proceeds as far as the pupil, and there terminates : and, lastly, some believe that it is reflected through the pupil, in order to cover the posterior surface of the iris, where it retains the pigment in its situation. It is easy to detach a tolerably thick and strong layer, of a cartilagmous aspect, from the posterior surface of the cornea, either after long-continued maceration, or after slight boiling; but it is not shown that this is any thmg more than the posterior layer of the cornea, which it resembles in appearance. • Accordineto M. Ribes, whom I always have pleasure in quoting, because his researches are worthy of evfry confidence, " by examining the intern..! surface of the crystalhne capsule m a rnnrt Ll t and with a good lens, a series of transverse fissures are observed around its entire drcSmflrenee wTere the anterior and posterior segments of the capsule unite. could never satisfy myself whether these fissures corresponded to the ciliary processes of the vitreous bodj. or to the villous fringes of the ciliary processes of the choroid. + Vide fig. v. pi. C. of Soemmerring's Icones Ocuh Humant.