REMARKS ON THE EXAMINATION OF THE BRAIN. 1003 beyond which it is impossible to trace them. This beautiful section suggested to M.Foville* some ideas respecting the structure of the brain, to which 1 shall presently have occasion to refer. The Section of Willis. Previously to the time of Varolius and Willis, anatomists were contented with making successive horizontal sections of the brain from the vertex to- wards the base, and studying minutely the parts thus exposed; and each anatomist believed that he had described different objects, when chance pre- sented him with some arrangement that had not been previously described. Willis insisted upon the necessity of carefully removing the membranes from the surface of the brain, and he objected to the usual method of examining this organ by making sections, which destroy the connexions between its different parts ; he considered the brain to be composed of parts folded upon themselves, collected into a globular form, and connected to each other by mutual prolong- ations. He also pointed out the importance of first examining the brains of animals, which are much more simple than the brain of man, the size and complexity of which render its study one of great difficulty. After having made these judicious remarks, Willis proceeds to describe the following mode of making the section which he had contrived, for the pur- pose of unfolding the cerebrum and opening out this spheroidal mass into a flat surface f : — Place the brain, completely stripped of its membranes, upon its convex sur- face ; turn forwards the cerebellum and the medulla oblongata; introduce the knife into the fissure of Sylvius, and carry it backwards as far as the digital cavity ; a fiap will thus be detached, comprising all the lower wall of the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle. Repeat this section on the opposite side; and, after having turned backwards the flaps thus formed, another section must be made on each side of the brain, extending from behind forwards along the corpus striatum, on a level with the outer border of the corpus callosum, and reaching to the anterior extremity of the lateral ventricle. Turn forwards the intermediate flap, which will comprise the cerebellum, the pons Varolii and peduncles, the optic thalami, and the corpora striata. The whole of the interior of the ventricle is thus exposed, so that we can examine the lower surface of the corpus callosum, and its continmty with the centrum ovale of each hemisphere, or the centrum ovale of Vieussens seen from below. The continuity of the fornix with the cornu ammonis is also well displayed, f General Remarks upon the Method of examining the Brain by successive Sections. The method of examining the brain by successive sections has been carried farthest by Vicq d'Azyr, whose beautiful plates are entirely devoted to the demonstration of the objects seen upon various sections of the brain made in succession either from below or from above. This method unfolds to us the relative disposition of the grey and white substances, shows the manner m which the ventricles are foi-med, and displays to us the real nature of parts hothf^ue mM^ale^^^ Cerveau, 24e Bulletin de la Socigte Anatomique. (Nouvelle Bib- f„J"fhi« nllrii'^o"' ?r.i'"H*' •''"'"r^ """u implicated than that of man, are more convenient Analome Fig VU ""fol'led is represented by Willis in his Cerebri ,tifP'\r'"'°"' J""'^<:''"< '"'c all similar methods, is liable to the objection that it destroys the connexion of parts, sug!?ested to M. Lanrencet the idea of comparing the cerebral mass to a nervous loop, analogous to the loops described by MM. Prevost and Dumas as form \IV-,V''\ '"^^T\f According to this view, the nervous system would rep". h^l2 «''V'"; «"<' of which would be represented by the brain and the other by the extremities ol all the nerves ; but both loops are equally inadmissible.