NEUROLOGY. yi2 from the foramen csEcum to the internal occipital protuberance. In this border is placed the superior longitudinal sinus. The loiver border is concave, thin, sharp, and free, and corresponds to the corpus callosum, touching that body, liowever, only at the back part, and ac- cording to some anatomists, making a rather deep furrow upon it. This free border, which is thicker behind than in front, contains within it a small vein, which has been named the inferior longitudinal sinus. The two surfaces of the falx correspond to the internal surfaces of the two hemispheres of the brain. Not unfrequently the falx cerebri is found as if torn through in some points, and I once observed the two hemispheres continuous with each other through an opening in this septum. The use of the falx is evidently to obviate the efifects of lateral concussion of the brain, and to prevent one hemisphere from pressing upon the other, whilst the person is lying upon his side. TTie tentorium cerebelli. This is an imperfect horizontal septum (le septum transverse, Ckauss.) which is as it were notched in front, and which separates the cerebrum from the cerebellum. It is constantly in a state of tension; a condition which depends upon the permanently tense state of the falx cerebri. These two parts, indeed, mutually preserve each other's tension, and when either of them is cut, the other necessarily becomes relaxed. It is, therefore, only when the tentorium is examined in situ, and the falx is left uninjured, that the anatomy of the former can be properly understood. It is then seen that it represents two planes, inclined upwards, and united in the middle line at an obtuse angle, so as to form a sort of arch, upon the top of which the base of the falx cerebri rests. The concavity of this arch corresponds to and is accurately fitted upon the convex upper surface of the cerebellum below ; the convexity corresponds to the slightly concave under surface of the pos- terior lobes of the cerebrum. Its outer or convex border is directed horizontally ; it corresponds behind to the posterior portion of the lateral groves, and in front to the upper border of the pars petrosa. The lateral sinus occupies the whole occipital portion of this border. Its inner or concave border is parabolic ; between it and the basilar groove, in front, a small space is intercepted, which is occupied by the nodus encephali, being accurately adapted to that part of the brain. The extremities of the ex- ternal and internal borders cross each other on each side like the letter X : the extremities of the outer border are attached to the posterior clinoid processes, and form on each side a sort of bridge, near the apex of the pars petrosa, beneath which the fifth cranial nerve passes : the extremities of the inner border are prolonged above those of the outer border, and are attached to the anterior clinoid processes. They form the sides of the pituitary fossa, and contain in their substance the cavernous sinuses. The falx cerebelli. This is a small falciform fold, situated vertically in the median line (le septum median du ceverlet, Chatiss.) : Winslow remarks that it is sometimes double. It extends from the internal occipital protuberance to the foramen magnum, and separates the two hemispheres of the cerebellum. Its base, directed upwards, corresponds with and is attached to the tentormm cerebelli; its apex bifurcates upon the sides of the foramen magnum. Its pos- terior border corresponds with the internal crest of the occipital bone, and its anterior border with the bottom of the median fissure of the cerebellum. Structure. The dura mater is perhaps the thickest and strongest of all the membranous investments of the viscera. It may be regarded as consisting of two very dis- tinct fibrous layers : of an external or periosteal layer, which forms tlie internal periosteum of the bones of the cranium, and of an inte,-nal or proper cerebral layer which though blended with the preceding throughout the greatest part of s extent, is separated from it at certain pomts, in order to form both the fibrous