742 ANGEIOLOGY. frequently than from the internal iliac artery. In 250 subjects examined for this purpose by M.Jules Cloquet, the obturator arose 150 times from the epigastric on both sides, 28 times on one side only, and 6 times from the femoral artery. The epigastric artery, -whether it gives off the obturator or not, passes trans- yersely or obliquely inwards, and having arrived below the spermatic cord in the male, and the round ligament in the female, is reflected upwards, so as to describe a curve having its concavity directed upwards, and corresponding to the loop formed by the spermatic cord or round ligament, the concavity of which is directed downwards. When the obturator arises by a common trunk with the epigastric, it is given off at the point where the latter is reflected upwards, and from the convexity of the curve. After being reflected, the epigastric artery ascends obliquely inwards, soon reaches the outer border, and next the posterior surface of the rectus abdominis muscle, and then passes vertically upwards. Having reached the umbilicus, it penetrates into the substance of the rectus, and terminates by anastomosing with the internal mammary artery. Relations. The relations of the transverse, oblique, and vertical portions of the epigastric artery should be examined separately. The transverse portion varies in length in different subjects ; sometimes it is almost entirely wanting, the artery running immediately upwards ; at other times, it is an bch and a half in length. This difference in length, which is of no consequence when the obturator artery arises from the internal iliac, becomes highly important when that vessel is given off from the epigastric* This transverse portion of the artery is directed obliquely downwards, when the epigastric arises at a certain distance above the ring. The oblique portion of the epigastric artery forms the outer side of a triangle, the inner side of which is formed by the outer border of the rectus abdominis muscle, and the base by the crural arch : the epigastric constitutes the true boundary between the internal inguinal fossa, which comprises all the trian- gular space situated on the inner side of the vessel, and the external inguinal fossa, which comprises the space upon its outer side. The abdominal orifice of the inguinal canal is situated in the external inguinal fossa, and, consequently, to the outer side of the epigastric artery. Those inguinal hemijB which pass through the internal fossa, are called internal or direct inguinal hernise ; those which take place on the outer side of the artery are called external or oblique inguinal. In its horizontal and oblique portions, the epigastric artery is placed between the peritoneum and the fascia transversalis. I should observe that the sper- matic cord in the male, and the round ligament in the female, do not cross the epigastric artery precisely in the situation of the loop which this vessel de- scribes, but a little above it. The axis of the inguinal canal being directed obliquely downwards and inwards, intersects at right angles the oblique portion of the artery, which slopes in the opposite direction. In its vertical portion, the epigastric artery is situated between the rectus and the posterior wall of the sheath of that muscle, until near the umbilicus, where it dips into the fleshy fibres. Collateral branches. Near its origin, or rather opposite the bend which it takes, the epigastric artery sometimes gives off the internal circumflex, which, as we shall hereafter see, generally arises from the deep femoral. It always gives off the following branches, — a cremasteric branch {l.fig. 214.), which enters the inguinal canal, runs along the fibrous sheath of the cord in the * rif the obturator arises high up from the epig.istric, it describes, before it enters the pelvis, a semicircle extending along the upper, and then the inner border of the crural ring ; and, con- seauently has such relations with the neck of the sac in femoral hernia, that render it alniost impossible to avoid wounding the artery in dividing the stricture upwards and inwards. Rut if as is much more frequently the case, it arises from near the commencement of the epigastric, by a common trunk with it, it then descends at once into the pelvis obliquely along the outer border of the crural ring, and will have the same relation with a femoral hcrnia.J