1134 NEUROLOGY. ramifications of the glosso-pharyngeal, and with several large branches from the superior cervical ganglion, to form the pharyngeal plexus, which is one of the most remarkable plexuses in the body, and to which the varied and fre- quent nervous phenomena observed in that region must be referred. I shall recur to this plexus when describing the great sympathetic. The superior laryngeal nerve (x', Jig. 301.). This is larger than the pharyn- geal branch ; it comes off from the inner side of the pneumogastric * as a rounded cord, which may be traced as high as the ganglion of the nerve; it passes downwards and inwards upon the side of the pharynx, behind the internal and external carotid arteries, which it crosses obliquely : it then turns forwards and inwards to gain the thyro-hyoid membrane, passing above the upper margin of the inferior constrictor of the pharynx; it runs for some time between the thyro-hyoid muscle and the thyro-hyoid membrane, per- forates the latter at the side of the median line, and then enters the substance of the aryteno-epiglottid fold of mucous membrane, where it terminates by dividing into a great number of filaments. During its course, it gives off a branch which is called the external laryngeal (y), and which I have seen arise directly from the pneumogastric itself; this branch communicates with the superior cervical ganglion by one or two fila- ments, and passes inwards and downwards upon the side of the larynx. It gives off one or two filaments, which anastomose with the superior cardiac nerve, behind the common carotid ; Haller calls this communication between the external laryngeal and the great sympathetic — the laryngeal plexus.'f The external laryngeal nerve also gives off several branches to the inferior con- strictor of the pharynx, some to join the pharyngeal plexus, and some twigs to the thyroid gland ; it then passes downwards and forwards between the inferior constrictor and the thyroid cartilage, and terminates by ramifying in the crico-thyroid muscle. The terminal expansion of the superior laryngeal nerve is remarkable for its radiated arrangement; it is preceded by a flattening and thickening of the nerve. These expanded branches are all submucous, and may be arranged into the anterior or epiglottid, and the posterior. The anterior or epiglottid branches are numerous and small; they run upon the margin, and on the fore part of the epiglottis ; some of them reach its free extremity, others run between the fibro-cartilage of the epiglottis and the adipose tissue called the epiglottid gland; some of them perforate the epi- glottis and ramify upon its posterior surface. Among these anterior terminal filaments of the superior laryngeal nerve there is at least one which runs forwards under the mucous membrane covering the base of the tongue, and may be traced as far as the two rows of glands, which are arranged like the letter V. These filaments of the superior laryngeal nerve to the tongue are placed between the lingual branches of the right and left glosso-pharyngeal nerves, with which they have probably been confounded. -j u The posterior or laryngeal filaments contained m the aryteno-epiglottid told are more numerous than the anterior branches; they are divided into the mucous filamenU, the arytenoid filament, and the anastomotic or descending filament. The mucous filaments are very numerous, and run upwards in the aryteno- enielottid fold; some of them lie beneath the external and others beneath the internal layer of mucous membrane of this fold. They are mtended » Tt nrisp? therefore, on the opposite side to the an.istomotic branch of the spinal accessory, ..hi, 1, haf not aDDeared to me to assist in its formation. I have seen the superior laryngeal ^rkP bv two ^ootrt^e larger of which came from the pneumogastric, whilst the oUier, which t?/vpL rmall cararfrom the glosso-pharyngeal. It appears to me that M. Bischors remarks roncLnLrthe origin of t^e superior laryngeal nerve on a level with the spinal accessory would ''■'f'^r^elu^^'irrSgeirne^^^^^^ hvVh. hvnn ^VossaUd^ i^S o^^ but lower down in the neck ; tliat portion of the nerve w^hich l:S^r^e?wel^ tie thyro-hyoid membrane ..nd the thyro-hyoid muscle is extremely tor- tuous in some positions of the larynx.