ANGEIOLOGY. surface. The pericardium is situated in the mediastinum, and has relations: — In front, it corresponds to the sternum and the cartilages of the fifth, sixth and seventh ribs on the left side, from which it is separated by the pleura and the lungs; in the middle, it is separated from the sternum by some cellular tissue only. The pericardium is in more or less immediate relation with the sternum, according to the size of the heart, or the quantity of fluid in the peri- cardium. Behind, it corresponds to the vertebral column, from which it is se- parated by the posterior mediastinum and the organs contained in it, viz. the oesophagus, the aorta, the thoracic duct, &c. On the sides, it is in immediate relation with the pleurae, and indirectly with the lungs. The phrenic nerves and the superior phrenic arteries are applied along the sides of the pericardium. The base corresponds to the cordiform tendon of the diaphragm, and to the muscular fibres on the left side of it. It adheres closely to the diaphragm, only in the anterior half of its circumference ; in every other part the base of the pericardium may be easily detached. The apex is prolonged upon the great vessels which enter and pass out at the base of the heart. The pericardium is covered by the pleurae in the greatest part of its extent, and is united to them by cellular tissue, which is tolerably dense at the sides, and very abundant in front and behind. The cellular tissue of the anterior mediastinum is often loaded with fat, as well as that which surrounds the base of the pericardium, where it sometimes forms prolongations resembling the appendices epiploicaj upon the large intestine. The internal surface of the pericardium is free and lubricated by serosity, like the inner surface of all serous cavities. Structure. The pericardium is a fibro-serous membrane analogous to the dura mater, and, like it, is composed of two very distinct layers, one external and fibrous, the other internal and serous. The fibrous layer consists of fasciculi interlacing in all directions. It is ex- tremely thin, and from its adhesions to the cordiform tendon of the diaphragm, it has been regarded as a prolongation of that structure, but it adheres closely to the diaphragm only in front, and much less intimately in the foetus and the new-born infant. In consequence of this adhesion, the pericardium follows all the motions of the diaphragm. The fibrous layer is prolonged upon the surface of the great vessels which open into the cavities of the heart, and furnishes for each of them an indistinct sheath, which is soon lost upon them. The serous layer of the pericardium, like serous membranes generally, forms a shut sac, adherent by its outer surface, but free and smooth internally.* After having lined the fibrous layer, it is reflected upon the great vessels at the base of the heart, and then covers the heart itself, of which it forms the ex- ternal membrane. We shall consider it as consisting of a parietal, and a vis- ceral or reflected portion. The parietal portion. The fibrous and the serous layer of the pericardium are so closely adherent, that it is very difficult to separate them. We shall find the same to be the case with the dura mater. The reflected or visceral portion. The existence of this portion of the serous membrane can be shown most readily at the points where it is reflected from the fibrous membrane upon the great vessels. It forms one complete sheath, which is common to the aorta and pulmonary artery ; some fat is often found in the furrow between these two vessels ; it also forms two semi-sheaths for the venae cava and the four pulmonary veins, which are thereby rendered smooth only in the anterior half of their circumference. The heart is entirely co- vered by the serous membrane, which is here extremely thin. In fat hearts it is raised from the muscular fibres by some flakes of adipose tissue, like the appendices epiploicae of the great intestine. • Its inner surface is covered with epithelium.