THE VITREOUS OR HYALOID BODY. 881 R 2 as if by small folds or bands, so that it presents a knotted or plaited ap- pearance. Other anatomists, on the contrary, state that the hyaloid mem- brane does not split into two layers, but passes altogether behind the crystal- line lens, in order to cover the front of the vitreous body. It is certain that a cu-cular layer, having the form of a radiated crown, is given off from the anterior part of the hyaloid membrane; this circular radiated disk was de- scribed by Petit and Camper, but it is called the corona ciliaris, or the zonula Zinni: it corresponds accurately to the ciliary processes and ciliary body of the choroid coat. , .7. The ciliary zone of Zinn (a, fig. 245.; b,figs. 247, 248.), or the ciliary processes of the vitreous body, can be seen through that trans- , parent body {d,fig. 241.) when the several coats are removed from the back part of the globe of the eye ; it is completely exposed to view when the choroid coat and the iris are separated from the vitreous body (^fig. 248.). It is this structure which constitutes the beautiful radiated crown situated in front of the vitreous body around the crystalline lens, and which extends considerably beyond the ciliary body of the choroid ; it consists of alternate black and transparent rays, and is generally regarded as a reverse impression of the ciliary processes of the choroid. The ciliary processes of the vitreous body correspond to the black lines, and the intervals between the processes to the transparent rays. The ciliary processes of the vitreous body are not so thick as those of the choroid; but the folds of which they consist commence further back than the ciliary processes of the choroid, so that the radiated disc formed by them is larger than that formed by the processes of the choroid. These folds of the vitreous body have the same spongy and jagged appearance as those of the choroid: they have no free portion, or rather that part of the zone of Zinn (a, fig. 248.) which corresponds to the free portion of the ciliary processes of the choroid, is applied to the crystalline lens. The ciliary processes of the choroid and those of the vitreous body are so arranged, that those of the one are received in the intervals between those of the other. It appears to me difficult to determine whether they are simply applied to each other, or whether their structure is continuous. However, on examining these parts through a lens -whilst they are being separated, it has appeared to me that a sort of cellular structure was lacerated, and that the black pigment, which had been hitherto confined, escaped together with a little fluid. M. Ribes believes that during this separation, some shreds of the hyaloid membrane are drawn away with the ciliary .processes of the choroid. The inner border (a) of the ciliary zone of Zinn is in contact with the margin of the crystalline lens (/), and adheres rather firmly to it. Around the outer border, which extends beyond the ciliary body of the choroid, are found the origins of certain radiated folds (6), which form, as it were, the commence- ments of the ciliary processes. This border adheres to the anterior margin of the retina (m, fig. 245.), which appears to me to be thickened and slightly uneven in this situation, and not to be continuous with the hyaloid membrane. From what has been stated, it follows that the canal of Petit is formed be- tween the hyaloid membrane and the zone of Zinn, and that the crystalline lens IS fixed by this zone to the anterior margin of the vitreous body ; that the anterior surface of the crystalline lens is not covered by a prolongation of the hyaloid membrane, besides its own capsule; and that the retina does not reach as far as the margin of the crystalline lens. M. Jules Cloquet has described under the name of the hyaloid canal a cy- lindrical passage, which is formed by the reflection of the hyaloid membrane into the interior of the vitreous body around the nutritious artery of the lens,