NEUROLOGY. 1010 minate in the convolutions, without presenting any sort of reflection, orforminn' any median raphe. ° 12. The dissections of M. Foville seem to establish the continuity of the corpus callosum both with the radiating fibres of the corpora striata and with the fibres of the hemispheres. According to his dissections, which consist es- sentially in transverse vertical sections, the radiating fibres of the optic thalami and corpora striata divide immediately into three very distinct superimposed plan.es. The first or superior plane is reflected upwards and then inwards, so as to describe a curve with its convexity turned outwards, passes horizontally in- wards to form the corpus callosum, and unites with the corresponding fibres of the opposite side. The second or middle plane, the plane of the hemisphere, ascends parallel to the corpus callosum up to the point where the fibres of that body are reflected inwards ; it then continues in an almost vertical direction, and thus reaches the grey matter. The third or inferior plane, much smaller than either of the preceding, is extremely thin and follows a very different course : immediately after emerging from the common place of origin, it descends on the outer side of the corpus striatum, turns round its lower part, approaches the median line, and then mounts upwards, in contact with the corresponding plane of the opposite side, through the middle of the ventricles, where the two juxtaposed plane's form the septum Jucidum. 13. Is the fornix an antero-posterior commissure ? In support of this opinion I may state, that I have seen the right half of the fornix atrophied in a case of destruction of the convolutions corresponding to the tentorium cerebelli. 14. The anterior commissure {m,fig. 283".), which was regarded by WilUs as the commissure of the corpora striata, and by Eeil as intended to connect the anterior convolutions of the middle lobe and some convolutions situated at the bottom of the fissure of Sylvius, belongs to the system of converging fibres, according to Gall, who describes them as commencing in the grey matter of the convolutions. According to Tiederaann, this commissure is a continuation of the cerebral peduncles, each of whicli, after having traversed the corpora striata, expands in the corresponding hemispheres, and gives olf several radiating fas- ciculi which incline forwards and inwards, are collected together into a cord, and unite with those of the opposite side ; the anterior commissure therefore, according to this view, is a bond of union between the radiating fibres of the cerebral peduncles and those of the right and left middle lobes of the brain. Chaussier had already derived the fibres of this commissure from the cerebral peduncles. All that is certainly known regarding it is, that the cord of which it consists passes through the anterior portion of each corpus striatum and expands in the anterior and inferior convolutions of the sphenoidal horn of the posterior [middle] lobes behind the fissure of Sylvius. 15. The cornu ammonis is formed by the reflection of the lower part of the hemisphere : the white lamina; which cover it, the corpus fimbriatum along its border, and the fornix, constitute but one system which evidently belongs to the antero-posterior commissures. 16. Each convolution is composed of two precisely similar semi-convolu- tions ; the two halves, which can be readily separated by a stream of water, maybe decomposed into a considerable number of striated lamella;, arranged like ,a fan, the margin of which would correspond to the free border of the convo- lution and the narrow end to the adherent border ; these striated lamella; are separated from each other by vascular filaments ; their number seems to vary in different subjects; they seem, moreover, to be altogether independent of •each other. The stream of water detaches a corresponding layer of grey matter with each white lamella. This layer of grey matter is also striated and appears to be composed of fibres implanted upon the white matter, as Mr. Herbert Mayo has very clearly pointed out.