938 NEUROLOGY. Tlie Olivary Bodies. Upon the antei'ior sui'face of the medulla oblongata, to the outer side of the anterior pyramids, and upon a plane somewhat posterior to them, are found two white ovoid bodies (corpora ovata), sometimes projecting in relief: these are peculiar to the human subject, and are more prominent in the foetus and new-born infant than in the adult. They were first described by Eustachius, and afterwards more accurately by Vieussens, who on account of their shape gave them the name of olivary bodies {corpora olivaria, c c) ; they are much shorter than the anterior pyramids, being not more than six lines in length ; they are directed obliquely downwards and inwards. The upper extremity of the olivary body does not reach the pons Varolii, but is separated from it by a deep furrow ; the lower extremity, which is less prominent than the upper, is bound down by a bundle of arched fibres, the concave borders of which are directed upwards (processus arciformes, e). The outer border of the anterior pyramids and the series of nervous filaments which unite to form the hypo- glossal nerve (9, Jig. 276.) constitute the internal boundary of each olivary body ; and a deep furrow, directed vertically, separates them on the outer side from the inferior peduncles of the cerebellum or the restiform bodies. * It is of importance to observe, that that portion of the olivary body which projects on the outer side of the pyramid is only the external half of the olivary body, its internal half being imbedded in the substance of the meduUa oblongata, so as to reach behind the anterior pyramid, f The Posterior Surface of the Medulla Oblongata. This surface is partly concealed by the cerebellum, being received into a groove on its under surface, and cannot be completely exposed unless the medulla oblongata be forcibly bent forwards, or the middle part of the cere- bellum be divided vertically. It is then seen that the cord appears to open out {t, fig. 271.) opposite the upper part of this sur- face, and to be turned inside out, so that the grey substance is exposed. In consequence of this sepa- ration of the posterior columns of the cord, there is left between them a shallow, triangular, or V-shaped depression (p), the bottom of which is smooth, and forms the anterior wall of the fourth ventricle ; He- rophUus named this depression, from its appearance, the calamus scriptorius. A vertical median groove corresponds to the shaft of the quill; whilst its barbs are represented by certain white medullary lines, which vary exceedingly in number, and are not symmetrical; some of these lines are lost upon the w^Ils of the ventricle, and others turn round the lateral surface of the medulla oblongata, and constitute in part the origin of the auditory nerves. The point of the pen is represented F'g- 271. jj^g .ygj.y jjgy^g infcrior angle formed by the sides of the depression, which terminates below in a cul-de-sac, ihefossette of the « I do not say, with some authors, that the filaments of origin of the glosso-pharyngeal and pneumogastric nerves (8, 270.) bound the olivary bodies behind, for these filaments arise from the inferior peduncles of the cerebellum, or the restiform bodies, not from the furrow between those peduncles and the olivary bodies. . , , , , ... . ■• „,„ hnH.»c t In the body of a female who died at the Maternite, the left pyramidal and o(ivarj bodies were not more than half their usual width. It might have been supposed '"l^VmnM atrophied; but the patient had exhibited no symptom indicative of so serious ami uncommo, a le.sion. With a fittle attention, I could easily see tli.it the pvr.imid was d);''''™ portions, the anterior of which occupied the usual position, whilst the posterior covcrtu tiic posterior half of the olivary body.