ANGEIOLOGY. of glands along the jugular veins. They are joined by those of the pharynx ffisophagus, arynx, trachea, and thyroid gland. They then proceed from one lymphatic gland to another, and from one plexus to another down to the lower part ot the neck, where they are joined by some lymphatics from the lung TThich also pass through some of the cervical glands: they terminate on the left sme m the thoracic duct, and on the right side in the right lymphatic duct. The Lysiphatic System of the Upper Extremity. The Lymphatic Glands of the Upper Extremity, and of the Upper Part of the Trunk. There are generally no lymphatic glands in the hand or forearm, but Meckel found several very smaU ones along the ulnar and radial bloodvessels. Ihere are two or three which are subcutaneous in the front of the bend of the elbow, and one or two above the internal condyle of the humerus behind the basilic vein ; in the arm we also find a series of small lymphatic glands, which are never numerous, along the inner side of the humeral artery. The axillary lymphaiic glands are situated deeply in the axilla, and are very numerous ; some lie along the great vessels, others are scattered through the axilla : they are often of a very large size. The following may be regarded as appendages of the axillary glands, a small sub-clavicular lymphatic gland, situated deeply beneath the costo-coracoid membrane, opposite the triangular interval between the pectoralis major and the deltoid, and two or three small glands situated along the attachments of the pectoralis major, as far as the mammary gland. Mascagni has figured a small lymphatic gland near the umbilicus. The Lymphatic Vessels of the Upper Extremity and of the Upper Half of the Trunk. The lymphatics of the upper extremity. The superficial set of these vessels arise from the skin of the hand, and run parallel to the fingers : they are for the most part situated upon the back of the hand; they cross obliquely over the metacarpal bones, pass over the carpus, and thus reach the forearm. In the forearm they are distributed almost equally upon its anterior and posterior aspects. The anterior lymphatics are collected upon the inner and outer sides of the forearm ; having reached the elbow, some pass in front of the epitrochlea and its muscles; others in front of the epicondyle. In this place they are reinforced by the lymphatics from the posterior aspect of the forearm, which are also collected into an outer and inner group. Not unfrequently a certain number of the posterior lymphatics, which arise from the outer side of the hand and forearm, after ascending almost vertically for some distance, pass obliquely, or cross transversely inwards, above and below the olecranon, and unite with the inner group. In the arm. some of the inner group of lymphatics pass to the lymphatic glands above the epitrochlea; the others run along the inner border of the biceps muscle and basilic vein, and then pass backwards and upwards to reach the axillary glands. The external lymphatics cross very obliquely over the anterior aspect of the arm, to terminate, like the preceding, in the axillary glands. One of them has a remarkable course; it runs along the cephalic vein, gains the cellular inter- val between the pectoralis major and the deltoid, dips down over the upper edge of the pectoralis minor and below the costo-coracoid membrane, and describes a curve so as to enter the sub-clavicular lymphatic ganglion. The deep lymphatics of the upper extremity exactly follow the course of the bloodvessels ; they often communicate with the superficial lymphatics,