754 ANGEIOLOGY. and anterior extremities of their respective spaces. In some subjects, the dorsal interosseous arteries are derived exclusively from the perforating arteries. It is not very rare to find the metatarsal and the dorsal interosseous ar- teries wanting; their places are then supplied by the plantar interosseous arteries. The dorsal interosseous artery of the first interosseous space (n) is given off directly from the dorsal artery of the foot, at the point where that artery dips into the first interosseous space ; it is larger than the other dorsal interosseous arteries, but is distributed in a similar manner. The dorsal interosseous artery of the second space is also rather frequently derived directly from the dorsalis pedis. The Ttbio-peroneai, Aktery. Fig. 217. The tibio-peroneal artery or trunk {f, fig. 217.), the posterior branch of the bifurcation of the po- pliteal artery, is bounded above by the origin of the anterior tibial, and below by its subdivision into two branches, viz. the posterior tibial (/) and the peroneal (A). It is from one inch to eighteen lines in length, sometimes it is not more than six lines, and it may be two or even three inches; I have seen it extend as low as the inner part of the OS calcis, where it divided into the internal and ex- ternal plantar arteries. It forms the continuation of the popliteal in re- gard to direction, and is in relation with the soleus behind and the muscles of the deep layer in front; the posterior tibial nerve crosses behind to get to its outer side below. The collateral branches of the tibio-peroneal ar- tery are, first, an internal recurrent branch, which peiforates the soleus from behind forwards, turns round upon the inner border of the tibia, is reflected upwards, and anastomoses with the internal inferior articular artery upon the internal tuberosity of that bone; secondly, the nutritious artery of the tibia (s) ; and, lastly, a single large branch, or several branches, to the soleus muscle, which they enter near its peroneal attachments, and then anastomose with the anterior tibial and the external inferior ar- ticular. When the tibio-peroneal artery is short, the branch to the soleus is derived from the pe- roneal artery. The Peroneal Artery. The peroneal artery Qi) extends from the bifur- cation of the tibio-peroneal trunk to the os calcis. It is generally smaller than the posterior tibial, and even than the anterior tibial, and bears an in- verse proportion to the size of the two, more par-