THE INTERNAL CUTANEOUS NERVE. 1049 The nerve for the teres minor enters that muscle by its lower border; it almost always arises by a common trunk with a deltoid branch, which runs upwards and backwards to supply the back part of the deltoid muscle. The cutaneous nerve of the shoulder frequently arises by a common trunk with the two preceding, and in this case the circumflex nerve appears to bifurcate; it passes under the posterior border of the deltoid, then lies in contact with the skin covering the back part of the top of the shoulder, and divides into diverging branches, some ascending, others descending, and others running horizontally. A second, and sometimes a third, cutaneous branch, perforates the fleshy fibres of the deltoid, and is distributed to the corresponding skin. The terminal or deltoid branches of the circumflex nerve are given off as that nerve is turning round the neck of the humerus, in which situation it divides into several diverging branches, the superior of which ascends and appears like the continuation of the nerve, whilst the others descend and may be traced as far as the insertion of the muscle into the humerus. The subscapular nerves. The nerve for the latissimus dorsi is the largest of the nerves generally described as the subscapular; it comes off at an acute angle from the inside of the circumflex nerve, and descends vertically in the midst of the cellular tissue of the axilla, between the subscapularis and serratus magnus, parallel to the external thoracic nerve, which it greatly resembles in size and direction as well as in its length, it then passes in front of the latissimus dorsi, reaches its outer border, and may be traced down to the lower part of that muscle. The nerve for the teres major arises at a very acute angle from the preceding nerve, to the inner side of which it runs; it passes to the subscapularis, turns round its outer border, and enters the anterior surface of the teres major by a great number of filaments. The inferior subscapidar nerve Q, fig. 288.) is sometimes multiple, and pre- sents many varieties in its origin and number. Thus, it sometimes curves directly from the brachial plexus ; sometimes from a common trunk with the circumflex nerve. Again, it often arises by a common trunk with the nerve for the teres major. Whatever be its origin, and whether it be single or multiple, it enters immediately into the subscapularis, and terminates there. We have seen that a small branch given off from the brachial plexus above the clavicle, the superior subscapular nerve, enters the same muscle at its upper border. The Terminal Branches of the Brachial Plexus. TJie Internal Cutaneous Nerve and its Accessory. The internal cutaneous nerve (g, fig. 286.), the most internal and the smallest of the terminal branches of the brachial plexus, arises by a common trunk with the ulnar nerve (rf) and the internal root of the median (c): concealed at first by the axillary artery, it descends vertically {a, fig. 288.) to the inner side of the median nerve, and in front of the basilic vein : at the upper part of its course it lies beneath the fascia, but it becomes subcutaneous at the same time as the basilic vein (6, fig. 287.), and is then separated from the median nerve by the brachial aponeurosis; at the middle of the arm, it divides into two terminal branches, an external, anterior or ulnar, and an internal, posterior or epitrochlear. The internal cutaneous gives off only one branch during its course along the arm, namely, a cutaneous branch, which varies in size as well as in the situation at which it is given off: this cutaneous branch arises in the cavity of the axilla, often anastomoses with an intercostal nerve, is applied against the skin on the mner aspect of the arm, and may be traced as far as the elbow. * • I have always found a remarkably long and slender filament arising from the internal on taneous nerve at the upper part of the arm ; it runs along tli.it nerve, passes beneath the basilic