THE FACIAL ARTERY. 687 artery in the supra-hyoid region. The inferior palatine, a small branch which is sometimes derived from the external carotid, or from the ascending pha- ryngeal artery, passes up behind [or between] the stylo-glossus and stylo- pharyngeus muscles, to which it furnishes some branches, gains the side of the pharynx, and is distributed to the tonsil, which it covers with its ramifica- tions and also to the velum palati and the pillars of the fauces, opposite which it anastomoses with several branches of the ascending pharyngeal artery. I have seen the palatine branch of the facial extremely large, and talcing the place of the tonsiUar and palatine branches of the ascending pharyngeal artery. The submental branch {g,fig. 204.) runs along the inner side of the lower border of the ramus of the jaw, between the digastricus and inylo-hyoideus, passes upwards in front of the bone, on the outer side of the anterior attachment of the digastricus, and ramifies in the skin and muscles of the chin, anas- tomosing with the ramifications of the inferior dental artery. Sometimes the submental divides into two or three branches, all of which terminate in the same manner, after perforating the digastric muscle. Branches for the submaxUlanj gland. These are three or four in number, and are large in proportion to the organ which they supply. The pterygoid branch. This is a small branch which passes into the internal pterygoid muscle. The collateral branches of the facial region are divided into external and internal. The external branches ramify in all the muscles and integuments of the cheek, and anastomose freely with the transversalis faciei, a branch of the superficial temporal: the most remarkable of these branches are the two given to the masseter and buccinator muscles. Among the internal branches, besides a number of small twigs which have received no names, we remark the following: — The inferior coronary, or labial artery (Ji), which is given off from the facial, a little below the commissure of the lips ; it pursues a serpentine course in the substance of the lower lip, between the muscular and glandular layers, at a greater or less distance from the free border of the lip, and anastomoses in the median line with the corresponding vessel of the opposite side. I have seen this artery occupy the lower or adherent border of the lower lip until it reached the median line, when it ascended vertically to the free border, where it, di- vided into two equal branches, which passed horizontally, one to the right and the other to the left, in order to form a second coronary artery, smaller than the first. . The superior coronary, or labial, arises opposite the commissure, passes in the upper lip between the muscular and glandular layers, and inosculates in the median line with the vessel on the opposite side. Branches are given off from this arch to the mucous membrane, the gums, the muscles, and the skin. One branch only of this artery requires a special description; it is known by the name of the artery of the septum nasi («'). It comes off in the median line by one, two, and sometimes three branches, which pass vertically upwards, and then horizontally beneath the skin, covering the under surface of the septum as far as the tip of the nose, where they anastomose with the artery of the ala. The artery of the ala nasi, or lateral artery of the nose (/), which is very often the termination of the facial, divides into two branches, — a small one, that runs along the lower border of the cartilage of the ala, and anastomoses with the artery of the septum ; and a larger one, that runs along the upper convex border of that cartilage. A small branch penetrates into the interior of the nares, between the cartUage and the opening of the nostril. Termination of the facial artery. The facial artery having become extremely slendei-, sometimes terminates, under the name of the angular branch (m), upon the side of the nose, by anastomosing with the nasal branch of the ophthalmic, and With the infra-orbital. At other times its termination is formed by the artery of the ala of the nose, or by the superior coronary of the lip, or even by the inferior coronary. I have seen it terminate in the artery of the septum. vox,. II. E