""^O NEUROLOGY. Lastly, there are so many varieties in the mode of communication between tde pneumogastnc and spinal accessory nerves, that it is extremely difficult to reter them to any general law. _ The mmcular branch. This nerve descends vertically between the internal jugular vein and the occipital artery, beneath the digastric and stylo-hvoid muscles ; it runs backwards and outwards (t, figs. 285. 298.), beneath the sterno-mastoid, generally perforating that muscle, but sometimes merely running along its deep surface, passes obliquely across the supra-clavicular triangle, and terminates in the deep surface of the trapezius. Whilst perforating the sterno-mastoid, the spinal accessory nerve gives se- veral branches to that muscle, which anastomose with others from the third cervical nerve, and from a sort of plexus within the muscle. On emerging, somewhat reduced in size, from the sterno-mastoid, it receives a branch (,v,fig. 298.), from the anastomosis, between the second and third cervical nerves, by which its size is greatly increased : it assists in the for- mation of the cervical plexus, and sometimes of the posterior auricular nerve. Having reached the anterior surface of the trapezius, it receives two consi- derable branches, derived from the third, fourth, and fifth cervical nerves, which appear to me to reinforce it. It gives off ascending filaments to the occipital portion of the muscle; and descending filaments, which continue in the original course of the nerve in front of the muscle, approach its scapular attachments, and may be traced down to its inferior angle. The muscular branch of the spinal accessory belongs exclusively to the sterno-mastoid and trapezius muscles. It has been incorrectly stated, that it supplies other muscles, such as the rhomboidei, the levator anguli scapulae, the complexus, the splenius, and the subscapularis, and that it is also distributed to the skin. In front of or rather in the substance of the trapezius, the spinal accessory anastomoses with the posterior branches of the spinal nerves. Summary. The spinal accessory gives branches to the sterno-mastoid, the trapezius, and the pharynx ; it is believed also to send some to the larynx by means of its anastomotic branch with the pneumogastric. It communicates with the second, third, fourth, and fifth cervical nerves. Function. In reference to its muscular branch, Sir C. Bell has classed the spinal accessory among the respiratory nerves, under the name of the superior respiratory nerve of the trunk; for, accouring to that anatomist, it arises from the lateral column of the cord, between the anterior and posterior columns. With regard to the anastomotic branch of this nerve which becomes blended with the par vagum, M. Bischoff lays down the following proposition (page 95.) : " Nervum accessorium nimirum nervum motorium esse, ideoque in partes vagi adscisci, ut motus, quibus hie qui sensificus tantummodo nervus est, prajesse videatur, ipse perficiat: eundem ergo prseesse motibus quoque mus- culorum laryngis, indeque nervum esse vocalem." This idea, which was suggested to him by theory, he endeavoured to confirm by experiment. The section of all the roots of the spinal accessory proved to be very difficult; but after many fruitless attempts, he at length succeeded in dividing them on both sides. The hoarseness produced by section of all the roots of the right side gradually increased as he divided those of the left side, and when all had been cut the natural voice of the animal w£is changed to a very hoarse sound, which could not be called the voice. I have already said that anatomy affords no proof that the laryngeal nei-ves are derived from the spinal accessory; nor does it show that the muscular fibres of the bronchi, oesophagus, and stomach, receive their filaments from it. The Ninth Pair, or Hypo-glossal Nerves. The %/?o-(//ossaZ, or great hypo-glossal nerve, the ninth cranial, or the twelfth nerve of some modern authors, arises on each side from the furrow between