1004 NEUROLOGY. which, in consequence of their projecting and being free at some part of thpir surlace, have received particular names. But this mode of examining the brain can only be regarded as a preliminarv means calculated to give an idea of this organ as a whole. And it tends to perpetuate the erroneous opinion that the brain is a pulpy mass, consisting of a semi-fluid substance, and displaying no more evidence of contrivance in its structure than a ball of wax. The method adopted by Varolius and Vieussens, which fell into disuse after the publication of the beautiful work of Vicq d'Azyr, and which consisted in determining the connexion of the different parts of the brain, has been re- vived and improved by Gall and Spurzheim, who have thus opened up the path which modern anatomists have so eagerly pursued. Methods of Varolius, of Vieussens, and of Gall, or the Examination of the Connexions of the Different Parts of the Brain. Varolius was the first to perceive that the essential point in the study of the brain was to ascertain the connexion of its several parts. He was also the first who dissected the brain from below, and who specially examined its con- nexion with the spinal cord ; he described the spinal cord as originating from the brain, not opposite the foramen magnum, but from the lower part of the cerebral ventricles. Vieussens traced the bundles of the pyramids through the pons Varolii to the peduncles of the brain, and followed these peduncles through the optic thalauii and the corpora striata into the centrum ovale, which is named after him. But there his inquiries ended, for according to him it was in this centre that the linear or radiated structure terminated: and his preconceived notion of a nervous centre (centrum ovale), from which with Varolius he described all the fibres as proceeding downwards, prevented him from carrying his researches farther. Gall followed up the investigations of Varolius and Vieussens, but instead of dissecting the fibres from above downwards, or from the brain towards the medulla, he traced them from below upwards, or from the medulla towards the brain, and followed them through the centrum ovale as far as the convo- lutions. The method adopted by Gall in order to separate the fibres of the cerebrum and show their connexions, was to scrape them with the handle of a scalpel. But from the nature of this proceeding, only those white fibres can be conve- niently traced which pass through grey matter, but the white fibres them- selves can never be separated from each other. Hardening the brain in strong alcohol, in nitric or muriatic acid, or by boiling it in oil, or by macerating, or boiling it in a solution of salt, facilitates the separation of its fibres ; but, as the results obtained in these modes might be considered as purely artificial, the action of a stream of water is preferable to any of them. The results obtained by acting on the brain by streams of water fully confirm those which are arrived at by the examination of the hardened brain. Again, the anatomy of the foetal brain and comparative anatomy have also aided in throwing light upon the connexion between the different parts of the brain. As the works of Gall were the commencement, if not the foundation, of all that has since been done, I have thought it necessary to give a brief summary of his views regarding the structure of the brain; and as a knowledge of its structure consists in a great measure in that of its connexions with the cere- bellum and spinal cord, the examination of these two subjects cannot properly be separated.