674 ANGEIOLOGY. The inferior phrenic OT diaphragmatic, or the suh-diaphragmat.ic arteries (d d. Jig. 199.), so named in contradistinction to the superior phrenic, which are branches of the internal mammary, are so frequently derived from the coeliac axis, that some anatomists, Meckel among others, describe them as branches of that trunk. They are two in number, a right and a left. They arise from the aorta, immediately below the cordiform tendon of the diaphragm, either side by side, or by a common trunk. Sometimes they arise from the coeliac axis itself, or rather from the coronary artery of the stomach, from the renal, or from the first lumbar artery; in some subjects we find as many as three or four. Each artery passes upwards and outwards in front of the corresponding pillar of the diaphragm, gives some twigs to this pillar, and one to the supra- renal capsule, and then divides into two branches, an internal and an external. The internal branch passes directly forwards, ramifies and anastomoses by loops with the vessel of the opposite side aroimd the oesophageal opening, behind the cordiform tendon of the diaphragm. The external branch is larger and more tortuous than the preceding; it proceeds obliquely outwards, between the pe- ritoneum and the diaphragm, and divides into a great number of branches, which extend as far as the attachments of this muscle, where they anastomose with the intercostal and the internal mammary arteries. The right inferior phrenic artery, moreover, sends some branches into the coronary ligament of the liver; the left artery gives off a branch to the oeso- phagus, which enters through the oesophageal opening in the diaphragm, and joins the oesophageal branches derived from the coronary artery of the stomach and from the aorta. The Coeliac Axis. Dissection. Elevate the liver by means of hooks, or by a ligature fixed to the right side of the chest; depress the stomach ; divide the fold of peritoneum by which these two viscera are united; and search for the coeliac axis be- tween the pillars of the diaphragm, by removing the solar plexus of nerves, which forms a thick layer in front of it. The ca:liac axis or arteri/ (from KoiKla, the belly or stomach; t/,fig. 199.), le tronc opisthogastrique, Chauss. {uinaBiv, behind, yacrr^p, the stomach), sup- plies the stomach, the liver, the spleen, the pancreas, and the great omentum. It is remarkable for its size, being larger than any of the other branches of the abdominal aorta, not excepting the superior mesenteric ; for arising at a right angle from the front of the aorta, immediately below the phrenic arteries; for its horizontal course, which is rarely more than five or six lines in extent, and for its very early division into three branches, ad modum tri- dentis These three branches are of unequal size : they are the coronary artery of the stomach {b,fig. 200.), the hepatic (c), and the splenic (d), which together are called the cceliac tripos, or the tripos of Haller. In its short course the coeliac axis is in relation with the lesser curvature of the stomach, or rather with the gastro-hepatic omentum, behind which it is situated- on the left side, it is in relation with the cardia; below, with the upper border of the pancreas, upon which it rests; above, with the left siae of the lobulus Spigelii. It is surrounded by so large a plexus of nerves, that it cannot be exposed until the plexus is removed. T/ie Coronary Artery of the Stomach. The coronary artery of the stomach, or the superior gastric (b,figs 200 201.), is the smallest branch of the coeUac axis It is directed upwards and to the left side, to reach the oesophageal orifice of the stomach; it then f'^ns sudden y to the right side, pursues a semicircular course along the lesser cur^atult