THE SUPERFICIAL VEINS IN THE ARM. 789 L 4 vein on the dorsal region of the forearm, and partly from some branches which arise from the lower part of the back of the forearm, and even from some small veins proceeding from the thenar and hypothenar eminences The branches which arise from the vena salvatella and the back of the wrist pass forwards; the other branches run backwards; the common trunk or trunks resulting from their union are directed at first vertically upwards, pa- rallel with the superficial radial vein, then somewhat obliquely forwards, to anastomose with the median basilic vein, above the bend of the elbow. When there is a second ox posterior ulnar vein, it ends in the basilic higher up, or else it anastomoses with the anterior ulnar vein. Between the anterior radial and ulnar veins we find the common median or median vein (m), formed by the anterior veins of the carpus and forearm. There may be more than one median vein, and it is not unfrequeutly wantmg, m which case its place is supplied by a venous network, the branches from which enter separately into the radial and ulnar veins. In some cases its place is supplied by an additional radial vein, and at other times by the deep veins. The Superficial Veins at the Elbow. At the elbow all the veins are on the anterior aspect. The most common arrangement is the following : on the outer side we find the upper portion of, the radial vein or veins ; on the inner side, the upper portion of the ulnar vein or veins, which pass in front of the internal condyle of the humerus ; between the radial and ulnar veins is the median, which divides into two branches, — one external (<z), which unites with the radial to form the cephalic vein (c), and is called the median cephalic; the other internal (e), generally smaller, but more superficial than the preceding, which unites with the ulnar to form the basilic vein (6), and is called the median basilic. Several varieties are observed in the arrangement of the veins of the elbow; sometimes the common median vein is wanting; but then its cephalic and basilic branches are given off by the radial, and the cephalic vein is almost always very small. In other cases we only find two veins at the bend of the elbow, viz. the radial and the ulnar, which are directly continuous with the cephalic and basilic. I once saw the common median vein replaced by the anterior radial, and by a branch from one of the deep ulnar veins. The Superficial Veins in the Arm. In the arm there are only two superficial veins, an external, named the cephalic vein, and an internal or basilic. The cephalic vein (c) is formed by the junction of the radial with the median cephalic vein, which junction may occur at very different heights. It ascends vertically along the outer border of the biceps ; then, running a little inwards, it gains the furrow between the deltoid and pectoraiis major, passes over the summit of the coracoid process, above or in front of which it curves back- wards, so as to enter the axillary vein immediately below the clavicle. From this curve the cephalic vem gives off a branch, which passes in front of the clavicle, crosses at right angles over the middle of that bone, and enters the subclavian vein. Not unfrequently the cephalic vein is replaced by a very small branch. r j j The internal vein of the arm, which is called the basilic vein (b), is generally larger than the cephalic. It is formed by the junction of the ulnar with the median basilic vein, passes at first obliquely backwards, and then vertically upwards, in front of the internal intermuscular septum, and enters either the brachial or the axillary vein.