93« NEUROLOGY. GaU relates, that in examining the body of an infant affected with spina bihda, he cut transversely through the cord, and found that it contained two canals, which he traced into the substance of the inedulla oblongata and tuber annulare, beneath the tubercula quadrigemina, and as far as the optic thalami where they terminated in a pouch as large as an almond. * ' It is certain that, up to the fourth month of foetal life, each half of the spinal cord contains a canal precisely similar to that which exists in fishes ; but after this time the grey matter takes the place of the gelatiniform fluid which had occupied the canal. However, in one case I found the canal persisting after birth. * The Medulla Oblongata. Situation. The medulla oblongata, the rachidian bulb, or cranial enlargement. is that conoid enlargement (a, fig. 268.) which forms the upper part of the spinal cord, crowning it like the capital of a column : it is situated upon the basilar groove of the occipital bone, and connects the spinal cord with the cerebrum and cerebellum. It was named medulla oblongata by Haller; but it has also been called the cauda or tail of the medulla oblongata, this term being derived from a comparison of the pons Varolii, the four peduncles, and the medulla oblongata to an animal, the body of which was represented by the tuber, the arms by the anterior peduncles, the legs by the posterior peduncles, and the tail by the rachidian bulb. External Conformation of the Medulla Oblongata. The medulla oblongata is received into the deep groove on the fore part of the circumference of the cerebellum (seefig. 276.), so that its anterior part only is exposed. In man and the mammalia the meduUa oblongata is bounded above and in front by the tuber annulare or pons Varolii {a, fig. 270.) ; but above and be- hind its limits are quite artificial, for it is prolonged upwards beyond the pons, as we shall presently see. Its limits below are altogether arbitrary: the medulla oblongata, in fact, does not contract abruptly, as the term, neck of the bulb, applied to its lower extremity, would seem to imply, but it is very gradually narrowed, so as to become continuous with the spinal cord. A plane, which is a tangent of the lower surface of the condyles of the occi- pital bone, would correspond with the lower boundary of the medulla oblongata.! I think however that it is more rational to fix this boundary according to the precise point where the medulla undergoes some decided modifications ; and this point is immediately below the decussation of the pyramids. The medulla oblongata is from fourteen to fifteen lines in length, nine lines in breadth, and six in thickness; it is therefore much broader and thicker than the spinal cord. The medulla oblongata is directed obliquely, like the inclined plane of the ger ■ every thing appeared to be in a natural state, excepting this cavity. He adds, that he had never met with so large a cavity ; which seems to imply, that he had seen cavities of this liind before. Ncqtte enim alias tantam aui quee huic acccdcret vidi. * Spina bifida and hydrocephalus have no direct relation with the persistence of the canals of the spinal cord; and on this point, I can remove all the doubts expressed by Keuffel (De Medulla Sptnali, 62.) concerning Morgagni's observation. " Forsan nos quoque," says Keuffel " eam (scilicet medullae spinalis caveam) invenissemus, si medullam spinalemexhomine hvdrocephalico aut spind bifldd laborante, inquirere potuissemus. Utinam hujusmodi oppor- tiinit.as si occurreret, a neminc negligatur, ut tandem de hac re certiores fiamus." In five m- fants affected with spina bifida, and two who died of chronic hydrocephalus, which I exammed for this purpose, the spinal marrow was perfectly normal. Tiedemann regards the canals described by Gall as produced by insufflation. t 1 have made experiments upon several subjects, which show that the relations of the me- dulla oblongata to the for.imeu magnum vary according as the head is directly vertical, Mc\«l, or exteXd ran instrument thrust horizont.iUy between the atlas and occipital bone divides tiie inedulla oblongata at different parts in these various positions of the head.