686 ANGEIOLOGY. larynx. Not unfrequently the superior laryngeal branch enters the larynx through a foramen, existing in the thyroid cartilage in some subjects. The inferior laryngeal or crico-thyroid branch. This arises from the internal terminating branch of the superior thyroid artery ; it is more remarkable for Its constant presence, than for its size. It is sometimes wanting on one side, but it is then replaced by the superior thyroid artery of the other side. It passes transversely inwards, in front of the crico-thyroid membrane, along the lower border of the thyroid cartilage, and inosculates with the branch of the op- posite side. From the arch thus formed twigs proceed, which perforate the crico-thyroid membrane, and ramify in the muscles and the mucous membrane of the larynx. It is not uncommon to find the inferior laryngeal artery dividing into two branches ; one superficial and transverse, the other ascending, which passes up behind the thyroid cartilage. The stemo-mastoid branch. This is constant, but of variable size. It comes off from the superior thyroid a little below the superior laryngeal, and passes downwards to reach the deep surface of the stemo-mastoid muscle, to which it is distributed. Terminal branches. Having reached the gland, the thyroid artery divides into three branches, viz. one which passes between the gland and the trachea ; another, which proceeds along the outer border of the corresponding lobe ; and a third, which runs along the inner border, and anastomoses in the median line with the corresponding branch of the opposite side. It is this vessel which sometimes gives off the inferior laryngeal.* The Facial or External Maxillary Artery. The facial artery (f,fgs. 204. 206.), so called from its distribution, is given off from the front of the external carotid, a little above the os hyoides : it is so large in some subjects that it seems to be formed by a bifurcation of the ex- ternal carotid. It proceeds in a tortuous course from below upwards, and then from behind forwards, along a groove formed in the submaxillary gland. After leaving this groove, it passes vertically upwards, crosses the body of the lower jaw at right angles in front of themasseter muscle, becomes oblique, arrives near the commissure of the lips, reaches the furrow between the ala nasi and the cheek, and teiminates near the inner angle of the pye, by anasto- mosing with one of the branches of the ophthalmic, and with the infra-orbital artery. The termination of th facial artery is subject to numerous individual varieties. The vessel is also remarkable for being extremely tortuous, a con- dition which is connected with the mobility of the parts supplied by this artery, which runs in succession over the supra-hyoid, the inferior maxillary, the buccal, and the nasal regions. Relations. In the supra-hyoid region the facial artery is covered by the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles ; then, along the base of the jaw, it is in relation with the outer surface of the sub-maxUlary gland, and is separated from the skin by the platysma and a great number of lymphatic glands. In the facial region, the artery is covered below by the platysma, higher up by the triangularis oris and the zygomaticus major, and in all the rest of its ex- tent by a greater or less quantity of fat, which separates it from the skin ; it lies upon the inferior maxilla, against which it may be compressed in front of the masseter, also upon the buccinator, the orbicularis oris, the levator com- munis, and the levator proprius. Collateral branches. The following branches are given off by the facial • I have seen the branch which runs along the inner border of the tliyroid gland pass trans- versely to the left side above and at a certain distance from tliis border ; having reached the mtdiiin line it proceeded verticiUy downwards, in front of the crico-thyroid ligament, to the middle of tiie thyroid gland, where it gave off the right and left inferior laryngeal br.-uiclies. The left tliyroid was very small, and only furnished the external branch for the thyroid gland.