THE CARDIAC ARTERIES. 669 COLLATERAL BRANCHES OF THE AORTA. Enumeration and classification. — Arteries arising from the aorta at its origin, viz the coronary or cardiac—Arteries arising from the thoracic aorta, viz. the bronchial, the oesophageal, the intercostal. — Arteries arising from the abdominal aorta, viz. the lumbar, the inferior phrenic, the cwliac axis including the coronary of the stomach, the hepatic, and the splenic, the superior mesen- teric, the inferior mesenteric, the spermatic, the renal, and the suprarenal or capsular. The terminal branclies of the aorta consist of the middle sacral and the two common iliac arteries. The collateral branches are very numerous: they may be divided into those arising from the pericardiac portion of the aorta, viz. the coronary or cardiac arteries; those arising from the aortic arch, viz. the bra- chio-cephalic, the left common carotid, and the left subclavian: these we may consider as terminal arteries, which taken- together have been termed the as- cending aorta in opposition to the descending aorta ; those arising from the thoracic aorta, which maybe subdivided into the parietal branches, viz. the intercostals, and the visceral, viz. the bronchial, oesophageal, and mediastinal arteries; and lastly, those arising from the abdominal aorta, which may also be distinguished as the parietal, viz. the lumbar and inferior phrenic arteries, and the visceral, viz. the cceliac axis, the superior and inferior mesenteric, the su- prarenal, the renal, and the spermatic arteries. Arteeies arising from the Aorta at its Origin. The Coronary or Cardiac Arteries. Dissection. Take off the serous membrane from the heart, and also the fat which occupies the furrows ; in order to see distinctly the origin of these arteries, remove the pulmonary artery and the infundibulum of the right ven- tricle. The cardiac or coronary arteries (see Jigs. 191, 192.), the nutritious vessels of the heart, or as it were its vasa vasorum, are two in number, and are named right and left on account of their origin, and also anterior and posterior from their distribution. Their number is not constant. Thus the two coronary arteries sometimes arise by a common trunk, to the left of the pulmonary artery.* Sometimes there are three coronary arteries; Meckel has seen four; but these varieties in number do not aifect their distribution, for the supernumerary ar- teries merely represent branches, which, instead of arising from the coronary arteries themselves, proceed directly from the aorta. Origin. They arise from the anterior part of the circumference of the aorta, immediately above the free margin of the sigmoid valves, at the highest points of the two corresponding sinuses. The origins of these vessels are so situated, that their orifices are not covered by the valves when these latter are applied to the walls of the aorta, so that the heart receives its arterial blood at the same time as all the other organs. The angle at which the coronary arteries arise is extremely obtuse, so that the course of the blood in them is completely retrograde. The coronary arteries differ from each other in caliber, the right being larger than the left, and also in their course, so that a special description is requisite for each. The left or anterior coronary artery is destined principally for the anterior furrow of the heart; it is concealed at its origin by the infundibulum, from between which and the left auricula it then escapes, and entering {e,fig. 191 ) the anterior furrow of the heart, traverses it in a very tortuous manner, » The coroniiry arteries were denominated by the older anatomists, and especiallv bv Bar- tholin, coi-onai ia' niado simplex, mudo j^cmina. uj> uai