1160 NEUROLOGY. the cardiac nerves have to the cervical ganglia: it is important to remark that the ganglionic nerves of the thoracic viscera are derived from the cervical ganglia of the sympathetic, and that the ganglionic nerves of the abdominal viscera are given off from the thoracic ganglia. In general, the great splanchnic nerve arises by four roots; but not un- frequently it arises only by two, which then represent the four origins. If, after having macerated the parts in diluted nitric acid, an attempt be made to determine exactly the highest point from -which the great splanchnic nerve originates, it will be seen that the white filaments of which this nerve is composed are already distinct opposite the third thoracic ganglion, and, more- over, that they are merely in contact with the trunk of the sympathetic and ■with the ganglia, and are continuous with the communicating branches from the spinal nerves. Anatomy, therefore, most clearly proves that the splanchnic nerve is continuous with the spinal nerves. Thus formed and completed opposite to the eleventh rib, the great splanchnic nerve passes downwards and inwards in front of the vertebral column; it becomes flattened and widened, perforates the diaphragm, the fibres of which separate to allow it to pass through, and immediately terminates in the semi- lunar ganglion (a:). An olive-shaped ganglion is not unfrequently found upon the great splanchnic, at a short distance before the nerve passes through the diaphragm. * The small splanchnic or renal nerves. I think it proper to include in the same description the lesser splanchnic nerve of authors and the posterior renal nerves of Walter, the distinction between these nerves appearing to me to be quite arbitrary. They are two and sometimes three in number. The highest is named the small splanchnic (Ji) ; it arises from the eleventh thoracic gan- glion, and sometimes from both the tenth and the eleventh. The lowest, which is the renal nerve of authors, is larger than the preceding, and is de- rived from the twelfth thoracic ganglion (<) : it often gives off a small filament to the first lumbar ganglion, and in a gi-eat number of cases this is the only means of communication between the thoracic and the lumbar ganglia of the sympathetic. In such a case the series of ganglia is said to be interrupted; but a complete interruption never exists. The small splanchnic or renal nerves exactly resemble the separate or single origins of the great splanchnic, with which they form a continuous series. They arise in the same manner, from the two or three inferior thoracic ganglia. They pass inwards and downwards parallel to and on the outer side of the great splanchnic, perforate the crus of the diaphragm either to the outer side of or at the same point as the great nerve, and enter the renal and aortic plexuses ; they are often shared between these two plexuses and the great splanchnic nerve. The highest of the small splanchnic nerves rather frequently anasto- moses with the great splanchnic, or even becomes entirely blended with itf The Visceral Ganglia and Plexuses in the Abdomen. As the semi-lunar ganglia and the visceral plexuses in the abdomen form the continuation of the splanchnic nerves, it is not only theoretically but prac- tically convenient to enter upon their description now. The central point of all these ganglia and plexuses is situated at the epi- • T ohstpin has recorded a case (p. 2) in which this unusual ganglion on the great splanchnic was of a semifuLr shape" and gave off, from its convex side, seven or eight slender filaments which accomnanied the aorta and were all lost in the diaphragm ; he has also mentioned another *a8e in S three filaments arose from this ganglion, two going to the solar plexus, and the 'H'imon^ tafnumeroSi'vaHeties which I have ohserved in the formation of the small splanch- with a twig frim theTwelfth thoracic ganglion, and was distributed in the ordinary manner.