THE LATERAL VENTRICLES. 995 Each lateral ventricle commences (J) in the substance of the anterior lobe (a) a little in front of the third ventricle, and behind the anterior reflected extremity of the corpus callosum (e) by which it is bounded in front; from this point it passes vertically upwards and backwards, describing a curve with its convexity directed inwards ; having reached (r) opposite the posterior part of the third ventricle, it changes its direction, so as to turn downwards and forwards round the optic thalamus (/), and then terminates (A) in the substance of the sphenoidal portion of the posterior lobe [i. e. in the middle lobe] (c) behind the fissure of Sylvius, and consequently a little below and behind the point (/) at which it commences. At the point of its reflection it also sends a prolon- gation (^) backwards into the occipital portion of the posterior lobe (&). From this it will be understood why each lateral ventricle has been compared to a capital italic £ turned upside down, and why the cavity is said to have three cornua, viz. an anterior or frontal (/), an inferior, descending or sphenoidal (h), and a posterior or occipital comu, (jr); on this account the lateral ventricles are ti-equently denominated ventriculi tricornes. It is also seen, that the ventricles are applied to each other at their anterior extremities, but diverge behind like the limbs of the letter x. The general form of the lateral ventricles is very well shown upon a longi- tudinal section of the cerebrum through the median line : each of these ven- tricles is then seen to be nothing more than an elliptical canal or passage, which runs around the large ellipsoid mass formed by the optic thalamus and corpus striatum. This elliptical canal is only interrupted below and in front opposite the fissure of Sylvius. Anatomists describe in each lateral ventricle a superior portion, an inferior portion, and a posterior portion or digital cavity. The Superior Portion of the Lateral Ventricle. This portion, called the body of the ventricle (i), is broader in front than behind, and presents for our consideration a superior, an inferior, and an in- ternal wall. The superior wall or the roof is formed by the under surface of the corpus callosum. The inferior wall or the floor is formed by the ventricular surfaces of the corpus striatum (j) and optic thalamus (I); between these two bodies are found the lamina cornea and tcenia semicircularis (n). The corpus striatum. When examined from the lateral ventricle, each of the corpora striata (i i, figs. 278. 280.) appears like a pear-shaped or conoidal eminence, having its larger end turned forwards, and its other end, which is very narrow, prolonged backwards, into the reflected portion of the ventricle. Its grey colour contrasts with the whiteness of the surrounding parts. Its free surface is covered by the lining membrane of the ventricles, and is very regularly marked by certain large veins which run across it. The ventricular surface of the corpus striatum forms only one T)ortion of this body, which has received its name from the white bundles or strise, which traverse the grey matter, of which it is principally composed. _ The corpus striatum, considered as a whole, is an ovoid grey mass, lodged m a deep excavation formed opposite the insula or island of Reil, which is situated in the fissure of Sylvius, and which I propose to name the lobule of the corpus striatum It will be seen hereafter, that the corpus striatum is covered on the outer side by the convolutions of the insula, that it corresponds on the inner side with the optic thalamus and the grey matter of the third ventricle, and that It is exposed below, at the back part of the anterior lobes of the bram behind the convolutions which form the sides of the furrow for the olfactory nerve. The opl^c thalami (I I, fig 280.), which as we have already seen constitute part fT^^.Ts ' f th'fl f"--- also, by their Vper surfacera part (/, fig. 278.) of the floor of the corresponding lateral ventricle ; this surface!, A A 3