GENERAL FORM OF THE CEREBRUM. 969 element in the comparison, namely, the weight of the body, is subject to great variety ? Haller has recorded the results of all the calculations which have been made upon this subject, and the diversity of those results is the best comment that can be made upon this mode of comparison. These remarks do not apply to the relative proportions between the cere- brum and cerebellum. According to my own observations, the weight of the cerebeUum is from the twelfth to the eighth part of that of the cerebrum. * It is important to obtain some approximation to the relative size of the brain in different individuals in the two sexes, and at different ages. It results from a great number of facts, that the size of the brain is in- dependent of the stature of the individual; that the size of the brain is also independent of sex, although since the time of Aristotle it has been the custom to repeat that the female brain is smaller than that of the male ; that in the foetus and the infant the cerebellum is relatively much larger than in the adult; and that in old age the brain is often atrophied like other organs, and then does not completely fill the cranial cavity. Can the size of the brain be increased by exercise, and diminished by in- action ? It cannot be doubted that the brain must, in this respect, obey the laws which regulate all other organs ; but the bony parietes of the cranium must offer great obstruction to its developement; indeed, examples have been recorded of compression of the brain, and even of death produced by hyper- trophy of this organ. If it be true that the power of an organ depends upon its size, it follows that the size of the brain, and consequently the capacity of the cranium, must have a tolerably close relation to the developement of the cerebral functions ; but the activity of these functions is connected with so many circumstances, besides the size and quantity of brain, that any estimate of the intellectual powers founded exclusively upon these data is very often faulty and in- exact, f The specific gravity of the brain as compared with that of water is, ac- cording to Muschenbroek, as 1030 to 1000. It would be interesting to deter- mine whether its specific gravity varies according to age and in disease, and also whether it differs In different animals. According to Soemmerring, the specific gravity of the brain in old persons is less than in those of middle age. General Form of the Cerebrum. The form of the cerebrum corresponds exactly to that of the cranial cavity, which is, as it were, moulded on it; it is therefore variable like that of the cavity itself, which, during early infancy, is capable of assuming aU sorts of shapes from the application of external pressure. If the entire cranial cavity, excepting the posterior occipital fossee, be filled with plaster of Paris, an exact representation will be obtained of the general form of the brain which had been removed. The cerebrum, therefore, is like the cranium of an ovoid figure, having its large end turned backwards, and Its small one forwards. It is divided on its under surface into lobes, which occupy the difierent compartments in the base of the cranium. The entire In three youug subjects I found as follows: — lb. oz. Cerebrum - - 2 2 — - - 2 81 — - - 2 5 _ oz. Cerebellum . . 4j - - 3, t Persons endowed with strong memories have .ilways appeared to me to have large brains • ^ri'^i,''"' "-h.ch the memory performs in the exercise of mind is of such a nature tha we cannot be surprised if the persons alluded to are frequently men of superior intellect hnvp nnr"r"lh"^ persons, having heads of considerable size, who had merely a good ncmorv but none of the characteristics ol genius. Those in whom the brain is Hrun «pmv. t,. .^ ? , the power of disease better than such as have small Sns ^ '° '° '^^'^^