998 NEUROLOGY. The Posterior Portion of the Lateral Ventricle. The digital or ancyroid cavity (&yKupa, a hook) is the occipital portion (,g,fig. 278.) of the lateral ventricle. The term digital cavity has arisen from its having been compared to the impression which the finger would leave if pushed backwards into the substance of the brain. It commences at the point where the ventricle is reflected upon itself, passes horizontally backwards de- scribing a curve with the convexity turned outwards, and becomes gradually narrower until it terminates ui a point. The dimensions of this cavity are extremely variable, not only in different individuals but even in the same subject. Thus, a very large digital cavity is often found on the right side, while on the left there is only a trace of it. Acute ventricular hydrocephalus affects the digital cavity more than any other part of the ventricle.* In some cases the bottom of the digital cavity is not more than half a line from the surface of the brain. In the natural state, the upper wall of the digital cavity is exactly fitted to a conoidal eminence, which occupies the lower wall or the floor of that cavity, and which differs in its dimensions according to the size of the cavity itself. This eminence (?i), which is variously named the unciform eminence, coUicuhts, calcar, unguis, was very well described by Morand f under the name of the ergot, and is therefore generally called the ergot of Morand. In form it rather closely resembles the hippocampus major, so that we ought perhaps to prefer with Vicq d'Azyr the name of hippocampus minor. There is not only a correspondence in form, but also in structure, between the two hippocampi; and the brothers Wenzel appear to me to have clearly shown that the ergot of Morand, like the hippocampus major, is nothing more than a special convolution projecting into the ventricle. It in fact consists of a white layer inclosing a thick mass of grey substance. A longitudinal anfractuosity, the depth of which depends on the prominence of the ergot, denotes on the surface of the brain the situation of the digital cavity: this anfractuosity is constant, and I have already described it as the anfractuosity of the digital cavity. There is also another circumstance which favours the analogy between the ergot and the hippocampus major, and that is their continuity; for there is only a depression between them, and the white layer which connects them is continuous in both cases with the fornix. Gredins has described several varieties of the ergot; not unfrequently it is double, and as we have mentioned so is the hippocampus major. The absence of the ergot is regarded by Tiedemann as the result of defective develope- ment. . •■ , , The ergot and the digital cavity scarcely exist except in man, doubtless because he alone has the occipital portion of the brain greatly developed. The Choroid Plexuses. The choroid plexuses of the brain, which have already been noticed in the descriptions of the third and lateral ventricles, form a continuous system of vessels, as can be easily shown by examining the brain from the base up- wards ' Upon the under surface of the velum interpositum, and on each side of the median line, are two small, red, granular bands, running from behind forwards, bordered by the veins of the corpora striata, and terminatmg m front upon the convexity of an arch which forms the boundary of the velum in that direction. This arch is formed by the junction of the anterior extrem- ities of the choroid plexuses. It is situated behind the anterior pillars of the fornix, at the point where those pillars unite, and is crossed at right angles * It is probable that this is simply the mechanical effect of long continued lying upon the ''"t Mem. de I'Acad. des Sciences, 1744. Obscrv. Auatomiquos sur Quclques Parties du Ccr- veau.