858 NEUROLOGY. The pituitary membrane receives a great number of arteries, which penetrate It by several pomts, and which are almost aU derived from the same source VIZ. the internal maxillary artery ; as, for example, the spheno-palatine, the Ultra-orbital, the superior alveolar, the palatme, and the pterygo-palatinei home arise from the ophthalmic artery, viz. the supra-orbital and the ethmoidal • and others from the facial artery, viz. the dorsalis nasi, the artery of the ala;' and the arteiy of the septum. The capillary veins are so numerous, that they in a great measure form the basis of the pituitary membrane ; the larger veins which proceed from them follow the course of the arteries, and enter, by very large trunks, into the in- ternal maxillary, the facial, and the ophthalmic veins. There are numerous communications between these last named veins and those of the ethmoidal re- gion of the base of the cranium. The spongy character of the internal surface of the nasal fossse, and more particularly of the surface of the turbinated bones, is due to certain grooves and foramina intended for the reception and transmission of bloodvessels. I am only acquainted with the superficial lymphatic network already noticed. In order to inject it, it is necessary to scratch the membrane with the injecting pipe. Are there any glands or follicles in the pituitaiy membrane ? Steno has de- scribed certain glands which I have not been able to find. The follicles in this membrane are rather difficult to be shown. Like all the organs of the special senses, the pituitary membrane is provided with a special nerve, called the olfactory, the nerves of the two sides constituting the first pair of cerebral nerves. Comparative anatomy shows that the de- velopement of the olfactory nerves is in relation with the developement of the sense of smell, and thus establishes, in a most positive manner, the generally re- ceived opinion regarding the function of this pair of nerves. Without entering here into the description of the olfactory nerves, which will be given hereafter, I would observe that they pass through the foramina and canals of the cribri- form plate of the ethmoid bone, at the same time becoming enveloped in fibrous sheaths; that they enter the pituitary membrane by its external surface; and that they expand into a plexus in its substance. The branches of these nerves cannot be traced lower than the middle turbinated bones on the one hand, and the middle of the septum on the other. Thus, while the upper and extremely narrow part of each nasal fossa (s, fig. 234.) is the essential seat of the sense of smell, the lower and much wider part only gives passage to the air during the act of respiration. Besides the special nerve of smell, the pituitary membrane receives other nervous filaments, all of which are derived from branches of the fifth nerve, viz. from the internal nasal and the frontal branches of the ophthalmic division of that nerve, and from the spheno-palatine, the great palatine, the vidian, and the anterior dental branches of its second or superior maxillary division. The experiments of modern physiologists have shown that the integrity of these different branches of the fifth pair is necessary for the perfect possession of the olfactory sense. This, however, is very different from saying, that the seat of that sense is in the branches of the fifth pair. The membrane which lines the several sinuses, although it is continuous with the pituitary membrane, does not resemble it in character; it is exceed- ingly thin and transparent, and appears like a serous rather than a mucous membrane ; that it is a mucous membrane is satisfactorily established only by certain pathological facts. The mucous membrane of the sinuses has a very close resemblance to the conjunctiva.* * See note, p. . f>^^ ■