852 NEUROLOGY. Tlie nerues of the tongue. No other organ, perhaps, of equal size, receives so many nerves as the tongue : one pair, the ninth or hypoglossal, is exclusively appropriated to it; and it also receives on each side the glosso-pharyngeal hraach of the eighth, and the lingual branch of the fifth of the cerebral nerves. Which of these nerves must be regarded as the nerve of taste in the tongue ? Evi- dently the one that is distributed to the papillae. On this account, since the time of Galen, the lingual branch of the fifth pair, or the lingual nerve as it is called, has been regarded as the gustatory nerve; though it would seem more natural to admit with Boerhaave, that the hypoglossal nerve, -which is distri- buted exclusively to the tongue, should, as it were, preside over the special sense situated in this organ. But the lingual nerve is found to enter the tongue at its corresponding border, and to spread out into branches which pass vertically upwards, and are exclusively distributed to the papillary membrane of the an- terior, or free portion of the tongue. The ninth or hypoglossal nerve of each side runs from behind fonvards, between the genio-glossus and stylo-glossus muscles, and communicates with the lingual nerve, so as to form the lingual plexus. It is not certain that some of the filaments of the hypoglossal nerve do not reach the papilte; but there is no doubt but that almost all of them are lost in the intrinsic muscles of the tongue. The right and left glosso-pharyngeal nerves supply the base of the tongue, and are exclusively distributed to the mucous membrane covering that part. No filament of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve is intended for the muscular fibres; and it is a remarkable fact, that in one case in which the facial nerve sent a branch to the tongue supplementary to the glosso-pharyngeal, that branch was distributed precisely in the same manner as the glosso-pharyngeal itself; that is, it was exclusively distributed to the mucous membrane at the base of the tongue. From what is stated above, then, it is anatomically shown that the lingual branch of the fifth nerve and the glosso-pharyngeal nerve are the special nerves of the tongue.* The following case is no less demonstrative of the same fact: — An indi- vidual had complete paralysis of the right half of the tongue. That side of the tongue became atrophied, and had scarcely one third of its natural thick- ness. Both its tactile and gustative sensibility were equally acute on the two sides of the organ. After the death of the person thus afflicted, an acephalo- cyst was found in the right posterior condyloid foramen, which had caused a complete atrophy of the right hypoglossal nerve. The corresponding half of the tongue had undergone the fatty degeneration. The Organ of Smell. The organ of smell is situated in a cavity formed within the bones of the face, as, indeed, are most of the other senses; it is placed at the entrance of the respiratory passages, and above the organ of taste, with which it has many points of relation. Although situated in the median line, it is a double organ. It consists of an external apparatus, which serves to protect the organ, to keep it in the necessary state of moisture for the proper exercise of its functions, and to direct the air towards that part of it which is endowed with the greatest olfactory sensibility: this is the nose properly so called. And, secondly, of two complicated and winding cavities, the nasal fossa, lined by a mucous membrane, called the pituitary membrane, which is the es- sential seat of the sense of smell. * rThe result of the vast number of experiments and observations made upon this subject by nersons of opposite opinions would appear to be, that the lingual nerve (a branch of the hlin), S^d thi linKuaVportion of the glosso-pfiaryngeal nerves, are both of them gustatory nerves, and ^so nerves^of ordinary sensibility to the tongue. The portion of the p-ilate and fauces endowed with the sinse of taste derives its power from the palatine nerves, which are given off from a ganglion (Meckel's) connected with the second division of the fifth nerve.J