NEUROLOGY. 920 We have seen that, opposite the median excavation at the base of the brain, the arachnoid adheres to the cerebral pia mater only by means of long fibrous filaments. The spinal arachnoid also adheres to the proper covering of the cord by means of fibrous filaments ; but in no part does there exist any delicate sub-arachnoid cellular tissue, like that found beneath the cerebral arachnoid.* Another peculiarity in the visceral layer of the spinal portion of the arach- noid is this, that it adheres to the parietal layer in a number of points. The parietal layer (a) of the spinal portion of the arachnoid is arranged pre- cisely in the same manner as the parietal layer of arachnoid in the skull. It becomes continuous with the visceral layer opposite the sheaths ■which are formed by the latter around the spinal nerves. The Sub-arachnoid Fluid. There exists around the spinal cord a serous fluid, in quantity sufficient to occupy the interval left between the cord and the dm-a mater : this fluid is seated in the sub-arachnoid space, (e) A similar fluid exists in the ventricles of the_brain and in the sub-arachnoid cellular tissue, and fills the free spaces of the cranial cavity.* The existence of the sub-arachnoid fluid was pointed out by Haller (^Ele- menta Physiohgia, t. iv. 87.), and most explicitly and completely demonstrated by Cotugno (-De ischiade nervosa commentarium'), but the fact was neglected by anatomists, and the fluid regarded by some as the result of cadaveric exudation, and by others as that of a morbid action. The existence of this fluid has been again confirmed by M. Magendie, who moreover has clearly proved, that it is seated in the sub-arachnoid tissue. In order to prove the existence of the sub-arachnoid fluid, or cephalo-ra- cliidian fluid of Magendie, it is necessary to open the lumbar region of the spinal canal in a certain number of subjects. If an incision be very carefully made through the dura mater, it will be seen that the serous fluid raises the visceral layer of the arachnoid, so as to make it protrude like a hernia through the incision : if this layer of arachnoid be then divided, the liquid will escape. Cotunni, who performed this experiment upon twenty subjects, collected from four to five ounces of fluid in each case. To the objection that this fluid is found after death, hut does not necessarily exist in the living subject, we may answer thus: — There is a space between the spinal cord and the dura mater, and the brain itself does not exactly fill the cranial cavity. Now, in no part of the animal body does there exist any vacuum; the spaces between the solids are always filled either with liquids or gaseous fluids. But if it be said that in this situation the space is filled by a serous vapour, the elasticity of which might establish an equilibrium with the external air, it may be replied that this vapour would not be sufficient to pro- duce so large a quantity of fluid as is found in the spinal canal. Moreover, all these objections, and also the supposition that the brain and spinal cord may be smaller after death than during life, are overthrown by the following experiment. If the posterior cervical muscles be divided in a livmg dog at their occipital attachments, the posterior occipito-atlantoid ligament will'be exposed. The parts being weU cleansed from blood, the ligament must be cut away, layer by layer, with a scalpel held flat against it. The hgaments » TThe SDinal sub-arachnoid space is divided beliind by a tliin and in some parts cribriform lonitMrifn-iVseDturn whicli extends from the loose ar.ichnoid to the posterior median fissu/e of longitudinal septum wniL throughout by a serous membrane, which contains the '"^hu t fluid a fd wh ch m?ght be named the inta-nal arachnoid. The septum just men- rachulian fluid, and "Uicn mii membrane reflected from the loose of "^^^^^^^ l^^Zl^^^'i^ro.^ that .rameu.l