THE INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY. 693 E 4 face, facilitates the examination of this artery, and enables us to see the ter- minations of its nasal, palatine, and pharyngeal branches. The internal maxillary artenj (e,fig. 206.), little known to the older anatomists, Fig. 20C. but accurately described by Haller, is the continuation of the external carotid, at least, as far as size is concerned. Immediately after its origin it forms a curve, and passes deeply to the inner side of the neck of the condyle of the lower jaw. Tortuous and horizontal in the first part of its course, it traverses the zygomato- maxillary fossa diagonally, passes for- wards, inwards, and a little upwards, to reach the highest part of the tuberosity of the superior maxillary bone, upon which tuberosity it describes a very considerable curve with the convexity turned forwards ; and then dips into the bottom of the zygo- matic fossa, i. e. the spheno-maxillary fossa, where it terminates by one or se- veral branches, called the spheno-palatine. The tortuous course of the internal maxillary is connected with the great number of branches given off from it. Relations. Opposite the neck of the condyle it is situated between the condyle, to which it is applied, and the styloid process—an important relation in a surgical point of view. Its relations in the zygomato-maxillary fossa are not veiy definite. Some anatomists, with Bichat and Meckel, state that it is situated between the internal and external pterygoid muscles; others, with Haller, that it is placed in front of the external pterygoid, i. e. between that muscle and the temporal. Both modes of distribution are equally common, and I have even seen one existing on the right, and the other on the left side in the same subject. If the internal maxillary is situated between the pterygoids, it passes directly forwards, on the outside of the dental and lingual nerves; when it has to get between the external pterygoid and the temporal, it bends downwards and then upwards, so as to embrace the lower half of the circum- ference of the external pterygoid : in this manner it gains the outer surface of that muscle, appears opposite the sigmoid notch of the lower jaw, and passes from behind forwards, between the external pterygoid and temporal muscles ; in both cases it passes between the two origins of the external pterygoid, in order to reach the pterygo-maxUlary fissure. Collateral branches. These are thirteen in number, and are divided into those arising on the inner side, and near the neck of the condyle, viz. the tym- panic, the middle meningeal, and inferior dental, the posterior deep temporal, the masseteric, the pterygoids, and the small meningeal arteries ; those arising near the maxillary tuberosity, viz. the buccal, the anterior deep temporal, the alveolar, AniL fhs infra-orbital arteries; and those arising within the spheno-maxillary fossa, viz. the vidian or pterygoid, the pterygo-pcdatine, and the superior palatine arteries. Branches arising near the Neck of the Condyle. The tympanic artery is a very small branch, which sometimes arises from the temporal, and sometimes from the inferior dental; it is distributed to the external auditory meatus and the temporo-maxillary articulation, and penetrates through the Glasserian fissure into the cavity of the tympanum, to the muscles and walls of which it sends its ramifications. The middle or great meningeal artery, or spheno-spinous artery, is destined for the dura mater and the bones of the cranium; it almost always arises from the mternal maxillary before the dental, but sometimes in the same