THE SUB-ARACIINOID FLUID. 921 will scarcely be cut through, before a small hernial protrusion containing a fluid will be seen; this consists of the visceral arachnoid raised by the rush of fluid K a crucial incision be then made in the occipito-atlantoid ligament by the aid of a director *, a fluid as limpid as distilled water will be seen be- neath the visceral layer of the arachnoid, which fluid is agitated by two kinds of motion one of which is isochronous with the pulse, and the other with the respiratory movements. If the arachnoid be next punctured, the fluid will immediately escape in jets, and its quantity may be ascertained. The difficulty of not wounding the visceral layer of the arachnoid explains why, until recently, it was thought that the spinal fluid was contained within the arachnoid cavity {c,fig. 266.), i. e. between the two layers of the arachnoid membrane, although most observers had noticed that the serous fluid in the cranium occupied the sub-arachnoid cellular tissue. It follows, therefore, that besides the fluid which is exhaled from the free surface, i. e. into the cavity of the arachnoid, a certain quantity of a similar fluid fills up the areolar tissue of the sub-arachnoid space: in this respect the arachnoid differs essentially from other serous membranes, all of which pour their secretions into their cavities, and not into the subjacent cellular tissue. This peculiarity depends simply upon the non-adhesion of the arachnoid to the spinal cord; it may be stated as a law, that serous membranes exhale al- most indifi'erently from either their internal or their external surface, when the latter surface is not adherent. The arachnoid exhales a fluid from both surfaces; a certain quantity of fluid is rather frequently found between its two layers ; and although in acute inflammations the deposit of purulent matter or of false membranes most generally takes place in the sub-arachnoid cellular tissue, yet these morbid products are not unfrequently found in the cavity of the spinal arachnoid itself. The sub-arachnoid fluid exists not only in the vertebral canal, but also within the cranium, in which it fills up all the spaces between the brain and the dura mater. Now, these spaces are subject to much variety in size in different individuals, or from age or from disease: thus, in atrophy of the brain and spinal cord, from old age or disease, the interval between the dura mater and the cerebro- spinal axis is augmented, and the quantity of fluid increases in the same pro- portion. The quantity of the sub-arachnoid fluid is in a direct ratio with the pro- gress of age; in aged lunatics, in whom the convolutions of the brain are much atrophied, the quantity of this fluid contained within the cavity of the cranium is very great.j The sub-arachnoid fluid in the cranium is not distributed equally around the brain, but is chiefly seated at its base. In order to show this fluid, it is merely necessary to raise up the brain carefully from before backwards, when it will be seen distending all the funnel-shaped prolongations formed by the arachnoid around the nerves, and it will escape as soon as the membrane is divided. As regards quantity, the sub-arachnoid fluid at the base of the brain and the fluid of the ventricles are always directly proportioned to each other, but are Inversely proportioned to the sub-arachnoid fluid upon the convex surface of the brain. Upon opening the head of infants who have died from acute ventricular hydrocephalus, we sometimes find the convex surface of the brain * It is highly importiint to make the transverse incision very short, in order to avoid injuring the very large vertehral veins; for if these vessels be cut, the haemorrhage will be so abundant as to prevent the continuation of the experiment. " "uuimaui t None of these facts escaped the notice of Cotugno " Nec tantnm ha;c aqua complcns ab occipitc ad usque imum os sacrum, tubum Anrm matris . . . sed et in ipso rcdunda calcaris cavo omnlaque complet intervalla qua; in.er cerebrum ct dura: matris ambitum mvemuntur .... quantum autem magultudinis corebrun, in his no dit cXTu'^,rm!."di"