784 ANGEIOLOGY. thyroid gland, and is joined by some branches from the larynx and the trachea. By their union they form a trunk, which ends in the lower part of the internal jugular vein. The constant existence of this vein explains in some degree a rather frequent variety in the arteries of the thyroid gland, viz. the ex- istence of a middle thyroid artery given off by the common carotid. Not un- frequently there are two middle thyroid veins on each side. These, as well as all the other thyroid veins, are much enlarged in goitre. The Veins of the Diploe. To complete the description of the veins of the head, it only remains for me to notice the diploic veins, or the proper veins of the bones of the cranium. They were first described by M. Dupuytren in his inaugural thesis, under the name of venom canals of the bones : they were afterwards figured by M. Chaus- sier {Train de I'Encephale), and, together with their principal varieties, they have lately been represented with xmcommon accuracy by M. Breschet, in his admirable work upon the veins. In the substance of the cranial bones there are found ramified venous canals, which are occupied by veins having only their internal membrane, the bony canals themselves serving for an external coat. These venous canals are not exclusively confined to the bones of the cranium: they exist in all spongy bones, and even in compact bones ; but whilst the canals are found in the en- tire substance of spongy bones, in the compact part of the long bones they are situated near the medullary canal. The venous canals of the bones of the cranium vary much in their size, and in the extent to which they are distributed: they are independent of each other, as long as the cranial bones remain distinct and separable; but they almost always communicate when, in the progress of age, those bones become united together. They get larger and larger as life advances, and their size is indirectly proportioned to the number of their ramifications: they sometimes present ampullae or dilatations, and at other times are suddenly interrupted, and terminate in culs-de-sac, reappearing again further on, or ceasing alto- gether : these peculiarities depend upon the venous canal opening at different points into the middle meningeal veins. Moreover, these venous canals com- municate by a number of orifices of different sizes, either in the interior of the cranium with the meningeal veins, and with the sinuses of the dura mater, or on the exterior with the veins which lie in contact with the bones of the skidl. In some heads of old subjects, these canals are found blended with the fur- rows for the branches of the meningeal arteries; those furrows themselves present some large foramina, which open into the cranium in various places. In new-born infants there are no venous canals properly so called; but the whole substance of the bones is traversed by a venous network, which may be seen when its constituent veins are naturally injected with blood, or when they have been filled with mercury, by which as delicate a network of vessels can be shown in the diploe as in injections of the soft parts. At this period all the cells of the bones are filled with venous blood. On the roof of the cranium the canals of the diploe are divided into the frontal, temporal, parietal, and occipital. The frontal diploic canals ar« two in number, one on the right, the other on the left side: they commence by numerous ramifications upon the upper part of the frontal bones, increase in size as they approach the lower part of the roof of the skull, communicate with each other by transverse branches, and also with the periosteal or the meningeal veins, open externally by vascular foramina, and then enter the supra-orbital and frontal vems. The teinporo-parietal diploic canals are divided mto anterior and posterior: they correspond to the furrows which contain the ramifications of the menin- geal artery, and open into those furrows by a great number of foramina, which