THE BASE OF THE BRAIN. 971 spinal axis, by means of the right and left peduncles iff), which may be re- garded as the roots of the two hemispheres. The median region. In the median line, opposite the centre of the base of the brain, and in front of the pons Varolii (d), is situated an excavation, •which may be called the median excavation of the base of the brain. This excavation has already been alluded to in the description of the arachnoid membrane and the sub-arachnoid fluid, with which this excavation is filled: it is formed by the brain being curved upon itself, and is partially effaced when that organ is placed with its base uppermost upon a flat surface : this excavation is of a pyramidal form, the apex being directed upwards, and the base downwards. The borders of the excavation form a hexagon, and contain the arterial hexagon of the base of the cranium, named the circle of Willis. The posterior borders of the hexagon are formed by the peduncles of the brain, the lateral borders by the inner part of the posterior lobes [c, middle lobes] * of the cerebrum, and the anterior borders by the inner and back part of the anterior lobes (a) of the cerebrum. From the six angles of this hexagon, six furrows proceed in different directions ; from the anterior angle, the fissure which separates the anterior lobes, or the great longitudinal fissure (a) of the brain ; from the two anterior lateral angles, the corresponding fissures of Sylvius (y y); from the posterior lateral angles, the two extremities (external to//) of the great cerebral fissure, or great transverse fissure oi the brain j and from the posterior angle (r), which .1, fu miMlc lobes of anatomists generally (c,flg. 276.), which, it must be remembered, the author, agrecmg with Soemmerrmg, does not regard as distinct from the posterior lobes (6), and to which, therefore, he does not apply the term " middle lobes." This term is, howevei-, for the most part added [between brackets] in the translation, as it is generally used in anal tomical descriptions in this country.] '