THE OPHTHALMIC ARTERY. 701 The muscular arteries are two, viz. the superior and the inferior. The superior is the smaller; it is often wanting, and is then replaced by branches from Ae lachrymal, infra-orbital, or ciliary arteries. It is distributed to the levator nalpebraj superioris, the superior rectus, and the obliquus superior. ThHn/S 'vhich alw^^ passes from behind forwards between the optic nerve and the inferior rectus, gives off most of the anterior cdiary arteries, and is distributed to the external and inferior recti and to the obliquus inferior. Sometimes the inferior muscular is not entirely distributed to the muscles, but forms an anastomotic arch with the infra-orbital branch of the internal max- ^^^ranches arising on the inner side of the optic nerve. The ethmoidal arteries are two, viz. the anterior and the posterior. The posterior ethmoidal (e) is given off the first from the ophthalmic, and is sometimes as large as the conti- nuation of that artery : at other times merely a trace of it exists. It runs from without inwards, passes through the posterior internal orbital canal to reach the ethmoidal groove within the cranium, and then divides into a meningeal and a nasal branch. The meningeal ramifies in the dura mater, particularly in the falx cerebri; the nasal branch enters the nasal fossa, through the foramina of the cribriform plate, and anastomoses with the ultimate divisions of the spheno-palatine artery. The anterior ethmoidal (/) is inversely proportioned as regards size to the posterior artery, which is sometimes replaced by it; it enters the cranium through the anterior internal orbital canal, and divides into a meningeal branch distributed upon the falx cerebri, and a nasal branch which penetrates the olfactory cavities by the foramina of the cribriform plate. The branches to the falx are remarkably tortuous. The palpebral arteries are divided into the superior and the inferior. Both arise from the ophthalmic opposite the cartilaginous pulley of the superior ob- lique. Sometimes they arise by a common trunk. Most commonly the in- ferior palpebral is given off a little before the superior. Sometimes the superior is so large, that it appears to result from a division of the ophthalmic itself into two equal branches. The inferior palpebral passes vertically downwards, behind the tendon of the orbicularis muscle, proceeds outwards to reach the lower eyelid, along the whole length of which it runs in the form'of an arch without any winding, and is .gradually lost at the external cauthus or angle of the eyelids. The vascular arch thus formed, the inferior palpebral, is situated between the muscular fibres of the eyelid and the tarsal cai-tilage, immediately below the free border of that cartUage. At the point where it enters the eyelid, it gives off a very remarkable branch, which anastomoses with the orbital branch of the infra-orbital ar- tery. From the arch of anastomosis a branch arises, which enters the nasal duct (branch of the nasal duct), and ramifies in the mucous membrane of that passage, as far as the inferior meatus. The superior palpebral passes downwards behind the orbicularis palpe- brarum, and having reached the superior punctum lachrymale, is reflected outwards, between the muscular fibres and the tarsal cartilage, immediately above its free border, along which it forms an arch, and terminates by ana- stomosing with a palpebral branch derived from the superficial temporal. Terminal branches of the ophthalmic. At the anterior extremity of the angle formed by the upper and internal walls of the orbit, the ophthalmic artery terminates by dividing into a nasal and a frontal branch. The nasal branch varies in size, and is often larger than the ophthalmic artery itself, so that some anatomists have regarded it as a branch of the facial, with which it always anastomoses. It emerges from the orbit above the tendon of the orbicularis, and having given off a small branch which afterwards enters the groove in the os unguis, to be distributed to the mucous membrane of the lachrymal sac, it divides into two branches — one, named the