1029 C C 4 DESCRIPTION OF THE NERVES. of bollin- the ganglia or macerating them in vmegar, urme, and other liquids, Scarpa was contented with macerating them m pure water frequently re- newed-a method practised by Ruysch in his dehcate investigations ; by means of this simple proceeding he was able to demonstrate that the gangha are formed by a number of nervous filaments surrounded by ceUular tissue and by a grey matter which is destroyed by maceration.* . , , . i He carried his researches not only into the anatomy of the spinal, but also into that of the visceral ganglia, and he discovered a wonderful uniformity in the structure of the one and the other. He compared their structure to that of ■ the plexuses ■ both of them receive nerves from all sides, which nerves are then intermixed without becoming united ; and both generaUy give off a greater number of nerves than have assisted in their formation. The injection of the nervous ganglia from the nerves has enabled me to discover that these gangUa have a precisely similar structure to that of the lymphatic glands; they are composed of cells communicating with each other, and among which the nervous fibres are scattered. In attempting to draw a comparison between the nervous plexuses, anas- tomoses, and ganglia, it might be said that in the plexuses there was an ex- change of nervous cords, in the anastomoses an exchange of nervous fibres, and in the ganglia an exchange of nervous filaments. Preparation of the Nerves. For dissecting the nerves, a very emaciated subject, whether young or old, should be chosen. Old wasted subjects appear to me at least as favourable as young subjects. The dissection of the spinal nerves is easy. Such is not the case with the cranial nerves, the dissection of which is undoubtedly the most difficult part of practical anatomy. In order to facilitate the study of these nerves, and to aid in the distinction of the nervous filaments from small vessels and portions of fibrous tissue with which they are often confounded, I am in the habit of submitting the head to the action of dilute nitric acid. After having macerated it for some time in this acidulated fluid, I immerse the preparation in pure water which I renew from time to time : the tissues generally as well as the neurilemma become perfectly transparent and like jelly; the nervous matter alone remains whiter and more consistent, and then all error becomes impossible. Besides, the bones, when thus deprived of their phosphate of lime, may be cut like the soft parts. In this way I have suc- ceeded in separating the entire cerebro-spinal nervous system from the other organs, retaining the great sympathetic in connexion with the rest of the nervous system. DESCRIPTION OF THE NERVES. General Remarks.—Division into Spinal, Cranial, and Sympathetic Nerves. The nerves are divided into two very distinct sets : the cerebro-spinal nerves, which have their origin or central extremity in the spinal cord or its cranial prolongations: these are the nerves of relation or of animal life; and the ganglionic nerves or nerves of the great sympathetic, which end in or emanate from certain ganglia: these belong to the system of nutrition or of organic life. The cerebro-spinal nerves are divided into the spinal or rachidian and the • [The grey matter of the ganglia consists, like that of the brain and spinal cord, of reddish nucleated globules, and of grey jointed fibres which surround and adhere to the globules, and which are most abundant in the ganglia of the sympathetic. The white fibres in the ganelia arc like those of the nerves with which they arc continuous ; they interlace amongst the elo- bules, but do not anastomose: it has been supposed that some white fibres may oricinate or tennuiate in the ganglia, but this is not established.] "buiaiB or