1068 NEUROLOGY. COLI^ATERAL BRANCHES OF THE LuMBAR PleXUS. Abdominal Branches. The abdoviinal branches of the lumbar plexus are intended for the parietes of the abdomen, and form a continuous series with the dorsal nerves, to which they are very analogous as it regards their distribution.* The great abdominal nerve (a, fig. 270.) is the most external, or rather the highest of the branches which come from the limibar plexus (it is the superior musculo-cutaneous nerve of Bichat); the terms ilio-inguinal and ilio-scrotal, which are generally applied to it, are derived from the fact of its giving a small cutaneous branch to the pubic region.f It arises from the first lumbar nerve, of which it may be regarded as a con- tinuation ; it immediately perforates the psoas, becomes sub-peritoneal, runs in front of the quadratus lumborum obliquely downwards and outwards, through the sub-peritoneal adipose tissue, parallel to the twelfth dorsal nerve, and thus reaches the crest of the ilium to the outer side of the quadratus lumborum. It next passes obliquely through the aponeurotic attachments of the transversalis, runs along the crest of the iliiim between that muscle and the obliquus inter- nus, and divides into two branches, the abdominal branch, properly so called, and the pubic branch. The abdominal branch, properly so called, runs inwards between the trans- versalis and the internal oblique, parallel to the abdominal branch of the twelfth dorsal nerve, with which it almost always anastomoses, and soon di- vides, like the lower intercostal nerves, into two filaments, one of which per- forates the rectus, whilst the other, after having entered the sheath of that muscle, perforates it and ramifies upon the skin. The pubic branch {a, fig. 292.) continues in the original course of the nerve : opposite the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, and often much beyond that point, it receives an anastomotic twig from the small abdominal nerve {U), and sometimes even the whole of that nerve, runs parallel to the femoral arch, at a variable distance above it, meets with the spermatic cord in the male, and the round ligament in the female, emerges from the anterior orifice of the inguinal canal (o, fig.29\.), is reflected outwards upon the superior angle of that orifice, and then expands into internal or pubic filaments, which are distributed to the skin of the pubes, and external filaments which supply the skin of the fold of the groin ; this pubic branch sometimes divides behind the femoral arch into two filaments, which escape separately from the inguinal ring. At the point where the great abdominal nerve reaches the crest of the ihum. it very frequently divides into two branches, a gluteal cutaneous, which crosses obliquely over the crest of the ilium, and an abdominal, properly so called, which is distributed in the manner just described; in this case the great ab- dominal nerve has an analogous distribution to that of the dorsal nerves. The small abdominal or small musculo-cutaneous nerve (above b, fig. 290.), the second branch derived from the lumbar plexus counting from without mwards (the middle musculo-cutaneous of Bichat), is merely an accessory of the gi-eat abdominal nerve, sometimes arising from it, often applied to it, and always anastomosing with it. It crosses obliquely over the anterior surface of the quadratus lumborum, and then over the iliacus, and is sometimes directed obliquely outwards towards, the anterior superior spine of the ilium, to join the pubic branch of the great abdominal nerve, with which it is blended; it * The varieties which they present as to their number, origin, .ind divisions, render their talien for a branch of that nerve.