870 NEUROLOGY. It is directed vertcially, but forms a slight curve, having its concavity turned forwards and outwards. It may be also readily conceived, that the relative breadth of the root of the nose must affect the direction of this canal. It corresponds mi the inner side to the middle meatus of the nose and the inferior turbinated bone ; on the outer side to the maxillary sinus, from which it is separated by a very thin lamina of bone. This latter relation has doubt- less led one anatomist to state, that the nasal canal opens both into the maxil- lary sinus and the nasal fossa. The nasal canal consists of a bony canal lined by a fibro-mucous membrane ; the bony canal is complete, and is formed by the superior maxillary bone, the OS unguis, and the inferior turbinated bone. It is very strong in the part formed by the superior maxillary bone, excepting opposite to the sinus in that bone, but it is very thin and fragile where it is formed by the os unguis and inferior turbinated bone. Its lining membrane is of a fibro-mucous structure; it adheres very slightly to the walls of the canal, and is continuous, on the one hand, with the mucous membrane of the lachrymal sac, and on the other with the pituitary membrane.* This lining membrane is often prolonged for several lines beyond the nasal duct, so as to form a valvular fold (o). Where this fold exists, the inferior orifice of the nasal duct (see r. Jig. 23S.) is always closed, and therefore difficult to be detected, even when the inferior turbinated bone has been taken away or displaced; so that, in order to discover it, it becomes necessary to introduce a probe through the lachrymal passages from above. In catheterism of the nasal duct, from below upwards, according to the method practised by Laforest, this fold of mucous membrane must of necessity be torn. It has been stated by some authors, that the lower orifice of the nasal duct is preceded by an ampulla, or infundibuliform dilatation. I have me( with this disposition, but regarded it as morbid. I am convinced that a great many lachrymal tumours depend upon contraction or obliteration of the loiter orifice of this canal. Fig. 240. The Globe of the Eye, The ^fofte of the eye {v, fig. 240.) is situated in the fore part of the orbital cavity ; it is retained in this situation by the optic nerve (o), the straight and oblique muscles (Jb e g), the vessels, the conjunctiya (rf), and the eyelids : these parts, however, do not confine it in a fitxed position, bat allow it great mobility. In fact, the e3e can be rotated around all its axes, and caa even be drawn forwards and backward (see Muscles of the Eye). The eyes ar? small in comparison to the orbital cavities , and they present some slight differences as to size in different persons, which have not yet been properly estimated. The common terms large and small eyes, apply less to the eyebaU than to the opening between the eyelids. The eye is proportionaUy larger in the foetus and new-born infant than m the adult ^°In^/brm the globe of the eye resembles a regular spheroid, to the front of wHch is attached a segment of a smaller sphere (see 241.): by this ar- rangement, the antero-posterior diameter of the organ is increased to the length of eleven lines, whilst its other diameters are only ten lines. It is said that the form of the eyebaU can be altered by the contraction of its muscles, them in theae situations.]