THE INGUINAL BRANCHES. 1069 sometimes runs alone between the transversalis and internal oblique : having reached the middle of the femoral arch, it anastomes (6 ,fig. 291.) by a single twig with the pubic branch of the great abdominal nerve, runs along the femoral arch below and parallel to that branch, and terminates in the same manner, that is to say, in the skin of the pubes and groin._ I have seen i give off a small branch to the lower part of the rectus abdommis. The small ab- dominal nerve deserves the name of ilio-scrotal as much as the great abdo- minal. If this denomination is to be preserved, it might be called the small ilio-scrotal. The Inguinal Branches. The external inguinal, or external cutaneous nerve (c, fig.29Q.), the third branch of the lumbar plexus, counting from without inwards (inguino-cutaneous Cliauss.; inferior musculo-cntaneous, Bichat), is intended exclusively for the in- teguments of the external and posterior regions of the thigh. It generally comes off from the second lumbar nerve : I have seen it arise by a common trunk from the second and third lumbar nerves, and I have also seen it come off from the outer side of the crural nerve. It arises by one and often by two cords, which unite as they emerge from the psoas or within the substance of that muscle. In either case, the nerve passes obliquely through the back part of the psoas, crosses the iliacus, being bound down by a layer of fascia, and then gains the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, below which it emerges (e,^jf. 291.) from the abdomen, passing behind the femoral arch, and apparently increasing in size during its passage. Below the femoral arch the nerve is sub-aponeurotic, or rather is situated in a sheath formed by the deepest layers of the fascia lata, and divides into two cutaneous branches (c c, fig. 292.), a posterior or gluteal *, and an anterior or femoral. The posterior or gluteal branch turns very obliquely outwards, downwards, and backwards, crosses the tensor vaginae femoris, and is distributed to the skin of the posterior region of the thigh. It is sometimes derived from the internal inguinal nerve, and then emerges from the abdomen on the outer side of the external inguinal nerve, crossing obliquely in front of it. When the great abdominal nerve (ilio-scrotal of authors) gives off a cutaneous gluteal branch, there is only a trace of this posterior branch of the external inguinal nerve. The anterior or cutaneous branch divides into two others, which diverge at an acute angle : one is external, the other internal; the external branch gives off a series of filaments which pass backwards and downwards, forming loops with their concavities turned upwards, and is then lost towards the lower third of the thigh : its place is then supplied by the internal branch, -which had at first descended vertically, but now turns outwards and backwards, and is distributed over the outer and fore part of the knee. These several divisions of the external inguinal nerve lie in contact -with the femoral fascia, and their ultimate filaments are applied to the skin. The internal inguinal nerve (branche genito-crurale, Bichat; rameau sous- pubien, Chauss.; b, fig. 290.), arises from the second lumbar nerve, passes directly forwards through the psoas, from which it emerges at the side of the bodies of the lumbar vertebrsE, runs vertically downwards upon the anterior surface of the muscle covered by a very thin layer of fascia, and having arrived within a greater or less distance from the femoral arch, divides into two branches, an internal or scrotal, and an external or femoral cutaneous branch (e). Not unfrequently this division takes place as the nerve emerges from the psoas. Sometimes indeed the genito-crural nerve is double, but this • Not unfrequently the external inguinal nerve gives off a third and very small internal branch, which lies immediately m contact with the skin of the anterior region of the thigli and may be traced a» far as the lower third of that region. This branch always anastomoses with a cutaneous branch of the crural nerve. ■ uoio niui .i