1042 NEUROLOGY. the skin of the chin and lower part of the cheek ; I have seen two of these filaments anastomose with the facial nerve. It is important to observe that the cervical filaments of the facial nerve occupy a deeper plane than those of the superficial cervical nerve, and are separated from these- latter in front by the platysma. The Ascending Branches. The Auricular Nerve. The auricular nerve (auricularis magnus ; d, fig. 285.), the ascending anterior branch of the cervical plexus, arises from the second and third cervical nerves by a trunk which is common to it and to the superficial cervical; it emanates from the plexus immediately above the last-named nerve, like which it em- braces the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid so as to form a loop with the convexity turned backwards, and then passes upwards and a little forwards be- tween the platysma and the sterno-mastoid, and reaches the anterior border of that muscle opposite the angle of the lower jaw. In this situation it gives off several facial or parotid filaments, and terminates by dividing into a superficial and a deep branch. The facial or parotid branches are very slender; some of them pass be- tween the parotid and the skin with which they are in contact; the others pass through the parotid gland from behind forwards, and from below upwards, to be distributed to the skin of the cheek; I have traced them as far as the skin which covers the malar bone ; it has not been shown that some of them terminate in the substance of the parotid as has been stated.* The superficial auricular branch ascends vertically, in the substance of the very dense fibrous tissue which connects the parotid to the skin ; it gains the lower part of the concha opposite to the anti-tragus, and then divides into several filaments, the distribution of which is remarkable : the largest passes above the lobule in the fissure between the concha and the caudal extremity of the helix, and is distributed to the skin on the concave surface of the auricle, and es- pecially to the skin of the concha ; another filament turns round the margin of the auricle, and gains the groove of the helix which it follows even to its upper part. The deep auricular branch, which may be called the anterior mastoid, per- forates the substance of the parotid gland, and gains the front of the mastoid process; here it crosses at an acute angle over the auricular branch of the facial nerve, which is more deeply seated, and with which it anastomoses by a rather large branch; it then passes behind the posterior auricular muscle, and divides into two secondary branches — a ^jostow, which passes upwards and backwards, and may be traced as far as the outer border of the occipitalis muscle, where it anastomoses with a very delicate filament of the external occipital nerve ; and an anterior, which runs upon the upper part of the cranial surface of the auricle. The superior filaments are reflected over the upper margin of the auricle and are distributed to the skin which covers its external or concave surface. . , ■ From what has been just stated it follows, that the auricularis magnus gives off no muscular filament. The posterior auricular and occipitalis muscles are supplied entirely from the auricular branch (y) of the facial nerve. The Mastoid or External Occipital Nerve. The mastoid or external occipital nerve (occipitalis minor, b), the posterior ascendine branch of the cervical plexus, rises from the second cervical nerve ; it comes ofi' from the plexus above the preceding nerve, describes a loop witn « 1 have seen two of these parotid filaments terminate in a small abnormal ganglion, from which other fi^imcnts were given off and distributed in the manner .ibove de.rnbed.