THE ANTERIOR JUGULAR VEIN. 771 upon its external surface, and parallel with its outer border. In the supra- clavicular region it is in relation behind with the omo-hyoid and scalenus anticus muscles and with the brachial plexus. It is always separated from these different parts by the cervical fascia, which is perforated by it as it curves forwards to enter the subclavian vein. The external jugular vein is surrounded by the superficial nerves of the cervical plexus, some of which pass in front, and others behind it. The auricular nerve runs behind its upper portion. This vein has generally two valves, one in the middle, the other near its termination ; sometimes only the latter exists. These valves do not appear, in general, to oppose any great obstacle to an injection thrown from the heart towards the extremity of the vein. Collateral branches. The external jugular vein receives, in front, branches of variable size and number, which communicate with the anterior jugular vein, and others which pass directly out of the stemo-mastoid muscle ; behind, it receives the superficial occipital veins (k), and several superficial branches from the posterior and lateral regions of the neck ; lower down, it also receives the supra-scapular and posterior scapular veins (I), which exactly correspond to the arteries of the same names. A constant branch passes beneath the clavicle, and establishes a communication between the external jugular vein and the upper part of the veins of the arm. Branches of origin. These are extremely variable; most commonly the external jugular is formed by the junction of the temporal (_/") and the internal maxillary veins. Sometimes it is formed by a branch resulting from the bifurca- tion of a trunk common to those two veins; at other times, by the successive junction of the temporal, internalmaxillart/, facial, lingual, a.ad superior laryngeal veins. In all cases the external communicates either directly or indirectly with the internal jugular vein in the substance of the parotid gland by means of a communicating branch, which may be regarded as a branch of origin, and which sometimes is the only branch of origin. The Anterior Jugular Vein. The anterior jugular is a subcutaneous vein (ni, fig. 219.), supplementary to the external and even to the internal jugular, and collects the blood from the parts situated in the middle of the anterior region of the neck. It varies in size in different individuals, is almost always inversely propor- tioned to the external jugular, and is often larger than that vein. We frequently find both a right and a left anterior jugular vein ; but then they are rarely of equal size. Rather frequently, however, there is only one, scarcely a trace of the other existing. Lastly, instead of these veins, there are occasionally only some small branches which scarcely desers'e notice. Direction. From the supra-hyoid region, where it commmences, this vein passes vertically downwards, between the median line and the inner border of the stemo-mastoid muscle ; opposite the fourchette of the sternum it bends abruptly, passes horizontally outwards behind the two lower fasciculi of the stemo-mastoid, and enters the subclavian vein on the inner side of the ex- temaljugular, sometimes opposite to but in front of the internal jugular; lastly, in other cases, it terminates by a common orifice with the external jugular. During its course it runs in the substance of that median layer of fibrous tissue which we have called the cervical linea alba, and it receives several collateral branches. Collateral branches. Theanterior jugularveinscommunicatewith the external by one or two branches of variable size; they also communicate freely with the internal jugular veins; the communicating branches often form the origins of this vein. The anterior jugular receives some laryngeal branches, and some- it 3