THE TEMPORAL ARTERY. 691 E 3 svmDathetic nerve, to the pneumogastric, glosso-pharyngeal, and hypo-glossal neryas and to the accessory nerve of Willis, enters the cranium through the foramen lacerum posterius, and ramifies upon that portion of the dura mater which lines the inferior occipital fossa. I have seen this vessel divide into a great number of branches, one of which entered the cramum by the carotid canal, and another by the foramen lacerum anterius. , ^ ^ , The meningeal branch, and sometimes even the trunk of the pharyngeal, o-ives off a pravertebral branch, which passes upwards in front of the longus coUi and the recti antici major et minor, supplying these muscles, and anas- tomosing with the cervicalis ascendens. I have traced a branch into the cra- nium through the first intervertebral foramen (i. e. along the superior notch of the atlas), and another which entered the vertebral canal between the atlas and axis. I regard this prsevertebral branch as supplementary to the cervicalis ascendens (a branch of the inferior thyroid), for it has a similar distribution. j u • The pharyngeal branch passes in front of the mternal carotid, and havmg reached the base of the cranium, divides into numerous branches, which ramify in the very dense fibrous tissue, found at the occipital attachment of the pharynx : they are all reflected downwards, and are distributed upon the Eus- tachian tube and the muscles of the pharynx. In a case in which the palatine branch of the facial artery was absent, this pharyngeal branch was very large and supplied the tonsil, and finally ramified in the velum palati. The Temporal Artery. Dissection. Turnback the parotid gland ; seek for the artery under the skin of the temporal region; follow its different collateral and terminal branches upon the cranium as far as the vertex, on the face, and on the ear. The temporal or superficial temporal artery (p, fig. 204.) appears by its di- rection to form the continuation of the external carotid. It commences op- posite the neck of the condyle of the lower jaw, between it and the external auditory meatus, which is behind ; it passes vertically upwards, immediately behind the zygomatic arch, reaches the temporal region, where it describes some curves still continuing its vertical course, and terminates by bifurcating at the middle or sometimes the upper part of that region. Relations. It is covered at its origin by the parotid gland; it becomes sub- cutaneous as soon as it passes beyond the zygomatic arch, and then rests upon the temporal fascia at first, and upon the epicranial aponeurosis afterwards. Its superficial position, added to its proximity to a bony surface, render it easily compressible, and explain why this artery, and especially its anterior or frontal branch, is generally chosen for arteriotomy. Collateral branches. These are divided into anterior, posterior, and internal. The anterior branches. The most remarkable of these is the transversalis fa- ciei (m), which arises from the temporal immediately after its origin, opposite the neck of the condyle of the lower jaw, and consequently in the substance of the parotid gland; it very often comes directly from the external carotid. It varies much in its size, which is generally in an inverse proportion to that of the facial artery. It proceeds horizontally forwards, across the direction of the neck of the condyle and the masseter muscle, about six lines below the zygoma, above the Stenonian duct, which runs parallel to it. The transversalis faciei gives an ar- ticular branch to the temporo-maxillary articulation, and several deep masseteric branches, of which one of considerable size penetrates the back part of the muscle, and anastomoses with the masseteric branch of the internal maxillary. It also gives a small twig, which runs along the Stenonian duct. At the ante- rior margin of the masseter the transverse facial artery subdivides into a great number of cutaneous, muscular, and anastomotic branches. Among the first we should notice a malar cutaneous branch; and among the muscular branches, those which are distributed to the great zygomatic muscle. The muscular