CENTRAL EXTREMITY OF THE HYPOGLOSSAL NERVE. 1103 strongly insists upon its origin from that column of the cord which is situated between the anterior and posterior columns, in a line with the pneumogastric and facial nerves, which column (the respiratory tract) he assumes to give origin solely to the respiratory nei-ves. The funiculi of origin of the spinal accessory vary much both in number and size, and are widely separated from each other ; the lowest as weU as the highest funiculi appear to me to be con- tinuous with the posterior roots of the spinal nerves ; and again, the highest are continuous above with those of the pneumogastric nerve, and appear to me to establish a transition between the origin of that nerve and the posterior roots of the spinal nerves. The lowest funiculus of the spinal accessory is generally situated not lower than the fifth cervical nerve ; it has been seen to arise opposite the sixth and even the seventh cervical nerve ; the latter is the normal condition in the ox. It is of importance to remark the connexion which exists between the spinal accessory nerve and the fii'st cervical or sub-occipital nerve. Almost always one or two, and frequently all of the posterior funiculi of the sub-occipital join the spinal accessory. Not unfrequently a small funiculus joins the spinal accessory from the second cervical nerve. Opposite its connexion with the sub-occipital nerve, the spinal accessoiy sometimes presents a gangliform enlargement which was well described by Huber {in ganglion vix hordeaceum intumescil nervus accessorius). In some cases, a filament proceeds from this ganglion and joins the anterior roots of the sub-occipital nerve. Winslow be- Ueved that the funiculi of origin of the spinal accessory communicated with the hypoglossal: this is an error. The greater number and even the whole of the funiculi of the sub-occipital nerve have been seen to join the spinal accessory, in which case, filaments from the latter nerve always supply the place of those which are usually furnished by the first cervical.* The cranial course of the glosso-pharyngeal and pneumogastric nerves. They pass horizontally outwards, in contact with the lateral fibrous layer of the fourth ventricle, forming two groups having a very small interval between them. The two, three, or four small bundles which constitute the glosso- pharyngeal nerve pass through a special opening in the upper part of the foramen lacenim posterius {S>,fig. 296.). The bundles which form the pneumo- gastric nerve are collected together and pass through the same foramen but by a distinct opening from the preceding one. The cranial or rather the vertebral course of the spinal accessory nerve of Willis is remarkable. This nerve, which is very small below, where it is formed by one or two funiculi, ascends vertically upon the side of the cervical region of the spinal cord, to which it is closely applied below, just behind the ligamentum denticulatum, and from which it is separated above, where it is immediately in front of the posterior roots of the cervical nerves; it goes on increasing in size as it receives additional funiculi which are blended with it; having arrived a few lines below the posterior lacerated foramen, it passes upwards and outwards to enter the same opening as the pneumogastric, being situated below that nerve, and emerging with it from the cranium. The Central Extremity of the Hypoglossal Nerve. The hypoglossal nerves (9, fig. 276. 295.), or ninth pair, arise on each side, from the furrow between the olivary and pyramidal bodies, in the same manner as the spinal nerves, i. e. by a linear series of funiculi placed one above the other. The furrow fi-om which the funiculi of the ninth nerve arise is continuous with the line formed by the origins of the anterior roots of the spinal nerves ; no funiculus arises from the line formed by the posterior roots.f The relation of the origin of the ninth nerve with the vertebral artery in front, and the • Lobstcin. De NervoSpinali Vide Scriptor. Neurol. Minor de Ludwig. t. ii. S I •,oL?''fif"A ^T' discovered a small posterior root with a ganglion for this nerve • andlic states that he once found a small posterior root on one side in the human s>W"ct ] '