THE EXTERNAL PERONEAL NERVE. 1085 of the ankle joint iy,fig. 291.) with a twig from the ^scu^o^^^^^^^^^^^^^ This malleolar branch, which often comes from the last-mentionea nerve, is mo eo^S remarkable, like all nerves which are subjected to strong pressure, rTtrthickness its greyish colour, and lastly for its knotted, and as U were ^^TtTerterLThenous nerve is often very smaU and is lost in the skin upon the Sle of ?he leg : its place is then supplied in the lower two-th.rds of 2 leTy the tibial saphenous nerve, the size of which is always in an in- verse ratio to that of the peroneal saphenous. No nerve presents more varieties than the peroneal saphenous; they relate to its size and to the point at which it anastomoses with the tibial saphenous One of the most remarkable varieties is that in which the peroneal and tibial sanhenous nerves, those called comvmnicating saphenous branches {communicam fibulcB, n; communicans iibicE,l) unite in the popliteal space into a single trunk, the external saphenous (p), the distribution of which corresponds to the ordinary distribution of the two nerves. The Peroneal Cutaneous Branch. This comes off from the external popliteal nerve, behind the outer con- dyle of the femur, passes vertically downwards along the fibula, in contact with the skin, and divides into ascending and descending branches, the latter of which may be traced as far as the lower part of the leg. The Terminal Branches of the External Popliteal Nerve. The Branches for the Tibialis Anticus. The two superior or recurrent branches, resulting from the subdivision of the external popliteal, pass horizontally inwards, behind the extensor communis digitorum, and are distributed to the tibialis anticus; one of these branches supplies the peroneo-tibial articulation. The Musculo-cutaneous Branch or Extei-nal Peroneal Nerve. The musculo-cutaneous branch (x, fig. 291.), the lowest of the terminal branches of the external popliteal, is intended for the muscles of the external region of the leg and for the skin upon the dorsum of the foot (pretibio-digital, Cliauss.; peroneus externus, Soemm.). It passes at first obliquely, then vertically, downwards in the substance of the peroneus longus, turns forwards to enter between the extensor longus digi- torum and the peroneus longus and brevis, and perforates the fascia of the leg, above the ankle joint: having thus become subcutaneous, it passes obliquely downwards and inwards, following the direction of the extensor longus digi- torum, becomes flattened and widened, and divides a little below the tibio- tarsal articulation into an internal and an external branch; the latter sub- divides into three other branches, so that there are in all four terminal branches, which form the dorsal collateral nerves of the toes. Not unfrequently the musculo-cutaneous nerve bifurcates as it escapes from beneath the fascia of the leg and its two branches re-unite opposite to the tibio- tarsal articulation, so as to describe an elongated ellipse. Collateral branches. There are two branches for the peroneus longus, of which one comes off from the nerve immediately after its origin, whilst the other arises lower down and runs a very long course in the substance of the muscle; there is also a branch for the peroneus brevis, which often arises by a common trunk with the preceding. In its subcutaneous portion, the musculo-cutaneous nerve supplies several filaments to the skin, among which we should distinguish an external malleolar filament, which passes between the external malleolus and the skin, increases considerably in size and becomes greyish and knotted, like all nerves subjected