ANGEIOLOGY. 662 bution of blood*, and spreading oat the origins of arteries over a more ex- tended space. Thus, by means of several series of arches, the superior mesenteric artery gives off branches which proceed at right angles to the small intestine throughout its whole length. Forms and Relations. The arteries represent regular cylinders when they give off no branch, and cones, or rather a series of decreasing cylinders, when they gradually diminish by giving off a certain number of branches. Their cylindrical form, together with the looseness of the surrounding cellular tissue, preserves them from a number of accidents. Thus, the humeral and the femoral arteries glide over the head of the humerus and femur in dislocations of these bones; and so the carotid arteries, contrary to all apparent probability, sometimes escape unin- jured in incised wounds of the neck. The arteries have relations with many other parts. With the hones, being supported by them, and more or less closely approximated to them. Thus the aorta is applied to the vertebral column, and the arteries of the limbs, after escaping from the trunk, become applied to the corresponding bones, their course along which is marked by a depression, and against which they may easily be compressed (see Osteology). From the relations of the arteries with the articulations some important practical inferences are derived. The arteries always occupy the aspect of flexion ; and as flexion is performed in the larger articulations of a limb alter- nately in opposite directions, the arteries are observed to alter their relative po- sition, as it were to regain the aspect of flexion. This is seen in the femoral artery as it becomes popliteal, and also in the brachial, which at first lies in the cavity of the axilla, and then turns forwards at the bend of the elbow. In consequence of this arrangement, the arteries are protected by the habitual, and as it were instinctive, position of the limbs. On the other hand, the proximity of certain arteries to articulations, and the absence of any cui'vatures in such situations, may explain the occurrence of rupture of these vessels in dislocation, and often also in immoderate attempts at reduction. With the muscles. The muscles are the essential protectors of the arteries, which they separate from the skin. There are large cellular spaces in the centre of the limbs for the reception of the principal arteries, which are thus removed from the influence of external violence. Most arteries have a special muscle, which may be termed their satellite muscle. Thus, the sartorius is the satellite muscle of the femoral artery; the stemo-cleido-mastoideus of the common carotid; the biceps of the brachial ar- tery, &c. With the skin. Some arteries are subcutaneous, or rather sub-aponeurotic, in a certain part of their extent; and in large arteries this is almost always at the point where they emerge from the trunk, as in the femoral artery. The arteries of the cranium are situated between the skin and the epicranial apo- neurosis in the whole of their extent. The importance of these relations in reference to compression of the vessels may be easily conceived. With the veins. The arteries are always in relation with certain veins, which are applied to them. When there are two satellite veins (vena comites) for one artery, the latter vessel is constantly placed between the two veins. With the nerves. The arteries support the plexuses of nerves distributed to the organs of nutritive life. We may even regard their plexuses as forming an accessory coat to this set of vessels. Other nerves, though not so mimediately in contact with the arteries, have a constant relation with them. This it is of im- « [The refill inirabilia of arterial vessels, iuuiul in some aniraaU, arc examples of the repeated subdivisiou and anastomosis of arteries.]