THE TEMPOliO-MAXILLARY VEIN. 781 its inner side by the superior and inferior coronary veins of the lip, which are distributed like the arteries, but are not tortuous ; by the buccal vein or veins; and by the anterior masseteric veins. . . -, , , , . Below the base of the jaw, the facial vein is joined by the submental vein ; by the inferior palatine, which is remarkable for the plexus around the tonsils, which is formed almost entirely by it; also by the vein or veins from the sub- maxillary gland, and sometimes by the ranine vein. ^ . , ^ Duriug its course the facial vein is in general more superficial than the fa- cial artery, and does not accompany it on the face, but is situated more to the outside, and is not tortuous. The Temporo-niaxillary Vein, The temporo-maxillary vein or venous trunk, represents the temporal artery, a part of the internal maxillary, and the upper part of the external carotid : many authors follow Walther in naming it the posterior facial vein, in contra- distinction to the facial vein properly so called, which they name the anterior facial. The temporo-maxillary is formed by the junction of the temporal and internal maxDlary veins: it most frequently terminates in the external jugular vein. " The temporal vein. This vein commences above by superficial, middle, and deep branches. The superficial temporal veins (^f Jig. 219.) commence upon the crown of the head by anterior or frontal branches, which communicate freely with the origin of the frontal vein, by middle or parietal branches, which communicate with the corresponding branches of the opposite side, and by posterior or oc- cipital branches, which communicate with the branches of the occipital vein. These form a very open network over the greater part of the cranium. From this network anterior and posterior branches arise, and unite with each other above or opposite to the zygomatic arch. During this course the veins do not exactly follow the direction of the corresponding arteries. It might be said that the veins of the scalp partake of the characters both of the vense comites and the subcutaneous veins. These venous networks are moreover situated in the substance of the hairy scalp, and like the arteries are placed between the skin and the occipito-frontalis muscle. The middle temporal vein is a very large vessel, often much larger than the common trunk of the superficial veins. It is situated (as indicated by the dotted lines, g,fig. 219.), beneath the temporal fascia, between it and the tem- poral muscle. It is sometimes formed principally by the junction of the pal- pebral with the external orbital veins, which, corresponding in their distribution to the arteries of the same name, unite into a common trunk that runs back- wards at first between the two layers of the temporal fascia, then between the muscle and the fascia, is directed backwards and downwards, again perforates the fascia from within outwards above the antero-posterior root of the zygo- matic process, and unites with the superficial temporal vein in front of the external auditory meatus. The trunk resulting from the junction of the superficial temporal and middle temporal veins passes vertically downwards, between the external au- ditory meatus and the temporo-maxillary articulation, dips into the substance of the parotid gland, and having arrived behind the neck of the condyle, receives the internal maxillary vein, which constitutes the deep origin of the temporo-maxillary trunk. The internal maxillary vein. This vein, the deep origin of the temporo-maxil- lary trunk, IS called by Meckel the internal and posterior maxillary, in opposition to the alveolar branch of the facial vein, which he calls the internal and an- terior maxillary : it corresponds to all the branches given off from the inter- nal maxillary artery behind the neck of the condyle, in the zygomato-maxil- iary fossa; whilst the alveolar vein, the deep branch of the facial, corresponds