828 ANGEIOLOGY. thoracic duct; wliilst others enter that duct directly. I have seen a very large lymphatic trunk open directly into the thoracic duct, opposite the fifth dorsal vertebra. Mascagni pointed out some lymphatic vessels which, after having perforated the fleshy fibres of the diaphragm, ran between the pleura and that muscle, re-entered the abdomen through the aortic opening in the diaphragm, and then passed into the glands surrounding the aorta and vena cava, or en- tered the thoracic duct at no great distance from the reservoir of Pecquet, ■without passing through any lymphatic glands. The lymphatics of the concave surface of the liver consist of several trunks, which are all directed from before backwards, and are divided into three sets: those which are situated to the right side of the gall-bladder; those which surround it; and those which are situated to its left side. Those situated on the right of the gall-bladder partly enter the lumbar glands and partly terminate in the glands around the vena cava and aorta. Those which surround the gall-bladder form a remarkable plexus, which accompanies the hepatic vessels, and terminates in the lymphatic glands which lie along those vessels, and in the glands situated in the substance of the gastro-hepatic omentum. Among this set of lymphatics, I would point out one considerable trunk, which runs in the cellular tissue connecting the gall- bladder to the liver. The lymphatic trunks, on the left of the gall-bladder, end in the oesophageal lymphatic glands, and in those which occupy the lesser curvature of the stomach. The deep-seated lymphatics of the liver. These vessels accompany the hepatic ducts and the vena portae, and are contained with them in the capsule of Glisson; they emerge from the transverse fissure of the liver, penetrate the substance of the gastro-hepatic omentum, and enter the lymphatic glands situ- ated along the lesser curvature of the stomach and behind the pancreas. Those lymphatics of the liver which accompany the hepatic artery and duct, and the vena portse, are extremely large, and are often filled with yellow lymph : they are sometimes found distended with gas in cases of commencing putrefaction. They were known long before the lacteals; indeed they were the first lymphatic vessels that were discovered. The Lymphatic System of the Stomach, Spleen, and Pancreas. The Lymphatic Glands of the Stomach, Spleen, and Pancreas. Those of the stomach accompany the coronary vessels along the great and lesser curvatures of the stomach ; some of them are situated within the gastro- splenic omentum, and a great number surround the pyloric and cardiac orifices. The lymphatic glands of the spleen occupy the hilus of that organ. The pancreatic lymphatic glands are ranged along the splenic artery, and con- sequently along the upper border of the pancreas; several of them are grouped around the coeliac axis. They receive a very great number of lymphatic vessels. The Lymphatic Vessels of the Stomach, Spleen, and Pancreas. The lymphatic vessels of the stomach are divided into the superficial and The superficial lymphatics form a network beneath the peritoneum; the deep lymphatics arise from an equally complex network situated in the mucous membrane. They follow different directions: a great number of them pass to the great curvature and enter the glands situated there ; others proceed to the lesser curvature and pass through the glands in that situation. Several run towards the spleen, and enter the splenic lymphatic glands; and, lastly, others go to the lymphatic glands around the pylorus.