928 NEUROLOGY. The existence of the three enlargements of the spinal cord ahove described, is in accordance with two general laws relating to the nervous system, viz. ]. that the size of the spinal cord is in proportion to the size and number of the nerves, which arise from and terminate in it, and to the functional activity of the organs to which those nerves are distributed; and 2. that the exercise of sensibility is connected with larger nerves than that of muscular contrac- tility. Now, the most numerous, and the most important nervous commimicatious take place opposite those three enlargements. The nerves of the lower extre- mities correspond with the inferior or lumbar enlargements; those of the upper extremities, with the middle one; and the nerves of respiration, the nerves of the tongue, and a part, or perhaps the whole, of the nerves of the face, with the superior enlargement. The cervical enlargement, which corresponds to the upper extremities, is certainly larger than the lumbar one, but this is because the upper extremities possess a greater degree of muscular activity than the lower, and also because they are the organs of touch. This explanation is completely justified by comparative anatomy ; and is ap- plicable also to the differences in the length of the spinal cord: thus it is found that in the different species of animals, the length of the spinal cord depends, not upon that of the vertebral canal, nor upon the presence or absence of a tail, but is proportionate to the muscular energy, and to the degree of sensibility. Desmoulins, a young anatomist, too soon lost to science, has established this fact by incontrovertible evidence.* The Form, Direction, and Relations of the Spinal Cord. The spinal cord has the form of a cylinder flattened in front and behind (jy,fig. 269.). It exactly corresponds in direction with the vertebral column, every devia- tion of which it closely follows; and it is an interesting fact, that it escapes compression, even in angular curvatures of the spine. The right and left halves of the spinal cord are perfectly symmetrical. There is less symmetry between the anterior and posterior halves, and still less between the upper and lower halves of the cord. The spinal cord is divided by anatomists into a body and extremities. The body of the cord requires to be examined, both when covered by its proper sheath, and after the removal of that membrane. The Body of the Spinal Cord enveloped in its proper Membrane. The surface of the cord everywhere presents certain transverse folds, united by others running obliquely, so as to form zigzag folds, which were compared by Huber to the rings of a silkworm, and regarded by Monro as so many velopment of the spinal cord have completely overthrown Gall's opinion, which rested merely uDon misubstantlated analogies. , . , ^ i,- • ,„ r It mav be remarked, that though Gall's anatomical statement is not correct, his view as to the analoev is more in accordance with received doctrines than that of the author.] * The Ininal cord of birds furnishes a striking proof of the law which presides over the de- vPlonment of this part of the nervous system. There are no movements performed by animals whffrequire greater force and agility than those observed in the act of flying. It is therefore not astoXhing to find that the spini cord is enlarged opposite the nerves which go to the Zsdes of the wings. It would be supposed that the portion of the cord which corresponds to rte lower extremities should be much smaller than that corresponding to the "PPer, but jot he iXrU enlargement is equal to the one for the wings, because, according to a more m- ;^n!nnfth-in nrobable idea, the lower extremities are the organs of touch in birds. * The sotaal'^eord of he tortoise most clearly confirms the law which we have adopted from r, =^n,Tn, The sort of calcareous and horny case in which the trunk of that animal is m- ^ =Ti rtp«Hh^^te o^all DOW motion or sensation ; and it is found, the enlarged part of the Spinal cord which' cirr^espond^ to the upper extremities, is united to that which corresponds to the lower by an extremely slender portion;