944 NEUROLOGY. Developement of the Spinal Cord. As soon as the spinal cord has passed through its original condition of an almost transparent pulp, it assumes the appearance of a lamina, the edges of ■which are rolled back upon themselves, so as to inclose a canal, continuous ■with the cavity of the fourth ventricle, ■which might be regarded as the ex- panded extremity of the canal. This canal is narrowed along the middle by the reflection of the pia mater into it: it is thus converted into two canals, the walls of which are at first thin, but afterwards increase in thickness, gradually encroach upon the caliber of the canals, which finally disappear between the sixth and seventh month. At this period a thin, white, outer layer covers the whole medulla: the posterior median columns are very large, and of a white colour, whilst the antero-lateral columns are still semi-transparent, the grey matter is soft and diffluent, like a pulp ; and, by the slightest insuf- flation, a canal may be formed along the centre of each half of the cord. The spinal cord occupies the whole length of the vertebral canal, until the third month ; but after this time, its lower extremity becomes relatively higher up to the period of birth, when it corresponds to the second lim;ibar vertebra. The spinal cord is larger, in proportion to the brain, during the early pe- riods of foetal life, than afterwards. The more rapid developement of the brain, at later periods, gives that organ the advantage. From studying the developement of the spinal cord, Tiedemann infers that the white substance exists before the grey, and therefore that the latter cannot be the nutritious organ or matrix of the white substance, as GaU had affirmed. It is quite certain, that the white parietes of the medullary canal are de- veloped previously to the grey matter. Developement of the Medulla Oblongata. During the first three months of intra-uterine life, the upper limit of the medulla oblongata is not defined, because there is no pons Varolii. The foetal brain, therefore, in this condition, resembles the brains of birds, reptiles, and fishes. The transverse fibres of the pons make their appearance during the fourth month, and the upper limit of the medulla oblongata is then established. The two halves of the medulla oblongata are perfectly distinct, and each half is divided into three columns : one for the brain properly so called, viz. the anterior pyramidal bundle; another for the tubercula quadrigemina, which may be called, with Tiedemann, the olivary bundle, remembering at the same time that this term has a very different meaning from what was attached to it by Gall; and a third or cerebellar bundle, which is the restiform body. The anterior pyramidal bodies are, at first, flattened like those of mamma- lia, but during the latter months they acquire their characteristic size and prominence. In the meduUa oblongata of a foetus, from the seventh to the ninth month, the anterior pyramids are of a reddish grey colour, whilst the anterior columns of the spinal cord are as white as they appear afterwards. Those pyramids, therefore, are not the continuation of the anterior columns of the cord. The decussation of the pyramids is perfectly distinct after the fourth week of foetal existence.* portion (c fie. 274.) passes partly behind and partly on the outer side of the olivary body, and is then chiefly continued into the fillet (A); the remaining part passes into the cerebellum, ioininc its inferior peduncle (n). The connexion of the cereheUum with the anterior columns of the cord was pointed out by Mr. Solly. (Phil. Trans. 1836, p. 567.) Arnold describes the Dosterior pvraraids (fasciculi gracilcs) as passing into the crura cerebri. For further details Sn the anatomy of the medulla oblongata, the reader is referred to Arnold's Bemcrkungcn Uber denSaudes Hirns und Riickenmarks. Zurich, 1838; also his Icones Anatoitxc^s, fasc. 1.; ana to a paper by Dr. J. Reid in the Edin. Med. and Sure. Journ. Ior January, 1841 ] * [The fourth or fifth month, according to Tiedemann; though in one part ol nis «orK ' week" lias been by an error printed for " month."