THE MEDIAN NERVE IN THE HAND. 1055 77*6 external collateral branch of the thumb.* This nerve passes obliquely downwards and outwards, on the inner side of the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis, crosses the metacarpo-phalangal articulation, to gam the external % border of the anterior surface of the thumb, and, running along the outer side of the tendon of the long flexor, arrives at the ungual phalanx. On this phalanx, it divides into two branches, a dorsal or ungual, properly so called, which turns round the side of the phalanx, anastomoses with the dorsal col- lateral branches of the radial nerve, and is distributed to the dermis beneath the nail; and a palmar, which is lost in the skin covering the pulp of the thumb. Some of these latter filaments turn round the tip of the phalanx and are dis- tributed to the skin beneath the nail. None of the filaments of the external collateral branch anastomose with those of the internal collateral. The internal collateral branch for the thumb is less oblique in its course and larger than the preceding; it runs along the first interosseous space in front . of the adductor pollicis, and reaches the inner side of the anterior surface of the thumb, along the tendon of the long flexor, and terminates like the pre- ceding branch. This branch gives off a twig to the adductor pollicis. The external collateral brancli for the index finger sometimes arises by a com- mon trunk with the preceding; it runs along the first interosseous space in front of the adductor pollicis, on the outer border of the first lumbricalis muscle, to which it gives a filament, and then divides into two branches, a dorsal and a palmar : the dorsal branch, which is the smaller, passes backwards and downwards, along the outer border of the first phalanx, unites with the dorsal collateral branch derived from the radial nerve, gains the posterior surface of the second phalanx, and terminates upon the third, near the nail. The palmar branch, which forms the true continuation of the trunk of the nerve, is arranged like the corresponding nerve of the thumb, and does not anastomose with the internal collateral branch. The common trunk of the internal collateral branch of the index finger, and ex- ternal collateral branch of the middle finger, passes vertically downwards, in front of the second interosseous space, at the middle of which it divides into two branches, one of which forms the internal collateral branch of the index finger, and the other the external collateral branch of the middle finger. These collateral nerves, like the preceding, divide into a dorsal and a palmar branch, the latter of which again subdivides into a sub-ungual branch and a branch for the pulp of the finger. The common trunk of these two collateral nerves, before bifurcating, gives off a twig to the second lumbricalis. The common trunk of the internal collateral branch of the middle finger, and external collateral branch of the ring finger, passes somewhat obliquely inwards, in front of the third interosseous space, and is distributed in the same way as the preceding branches; before bifurcating, it sometimes gives a twig to the third lumbricalis; it receives an anastomotic filament from the ulnar nerve. The bifurcation of this sixth branch takes place a little below the metacarpo- phalangal articulations. Relations. The following are the relations of the palmar and digital por- tions of the median nerve : Behind the anterior annular ligament of the carpus, the median nerve is situated on the outer side of the tendons of the flexor sublimis and in front of those of the flexor profundus ; like the tendons among which it is placed, it is at first covered by the synovial membrane in front and behind. In the palm of the hand, the median nerve is covered by the palmar fascia and is situated in front of all the flexor tendons. The superficial palmar arch lies in front of it, and crosses at right angles over its three internal branches. The collateral nerves of the fingers accompany the collateral vessels, and pass with them from the palm of the hand opposite the intervals between the * I have «ecn it arise alter the third branch, and upon a plane anterior to that branch the origin of which It then crossed. mc VOL. n. E E