729 THE SUPERFICIAL PALMAR ARCH. run along the posterior surface of the interosseous ligament, in the same man- ner as the anterior interosseous artery. , ^, „ ^ , The arteru of the viedian nerve is remarkable for its constancy and its leneth • it comes off from the front of the anterior interosseous artery, reaches the Dos'terior surface of the median nerve, penetrates it, and then runs down- wards along its inner side. I have seen the artery of the median nerve very larse and anastomosing with the superficial palmar arch. It has also been found continuous with the brachial artery, and supplying the place of both the radial and ulnar, which were in a rudimentary state. The posterior interosseous artery is generally smaller than the anterior; it perforates the interosseous ligament opposite the lower border of the supinator brevis, and immediately gives off an ascending branch, the interosseous recurrent; it then descends between the deep and superficial layer of muscles on the back of the fore-arm, and divides into a number of branches, which are distributed to those muscles, but especially to the superficial layer.* _ The interosseous recurrent is a branch of the posterior interosseous, of such size that it may be regarded as resulting from the bifurcation of that artery: it passes vertically upwards, having the anconeus and the extensor carpi ul- naris behind it, and the supinator brevis in front of it; it runs behind the inner condyle, and anastomoses on the outer side of the elbow joint with the cu- taneous, muscular, and periosteal divisions of the superior profunda artery, the external collateral branch of the brachial. The anterior carpal branch of the ulnar artery is a small twig, which arises opposite the lower borders of the pronator quadratus, passes between the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris and the ulna, and anastomoses with a similar branch from the radial, to form the anterior carpal arch, from which several branches descend to reach the interosseous muscles and those of the ball of the thumb.f The Superficial Palmar Arch. Opposite the articulation between the two rows of carpal bones, and before it forms the superficial palmar arch, the ulnar artery gives off a deep branch backwards, called the radio-cubital, or communicating artery {y,fig. 210.); which dips between the short abductor and short flexor of the little finger, then passes outwards between the short flexor and opponens, to anastomose with and complete the deep palmar arch. This artery is sometimes so large that it may be regarded as formed by the bifurcation of the ulnar. The superficial palmar arch (Jt,fig. 210.), which constitutes the termination of the ulnar, gives off no important branch from its upper or concave side. Four or five diverging digital branches pass from its lower or convex side, and constitute the collateral arteries of the fingers. The digital branches (« u u) are distinguished as the first, second, third, and fourth, proceeding from within outwards. The first reaches the inner or ulnar border of the little finger, and constitutes its internal collateral artery; the second runs along the fourth interosseous space, and divides into the external collateral artery of the little finger and the internal collateral artery of the ring finger; the third runs along the third interosseous space, and supplies the ex- ternal collateral artery of the ring finger and the intertial collateral artery of the middle finger; the fourth runs in the second interosseous space, and gives the external collateral artery of the middle finger and the internal collateral artery of the index finger. It is very rare to find the external collateral artery of the * Some branches may be traced as far as the carpus. t [There are usually two other branches given from the ulnar in the wrist; the first is a dorsal metacarpal branch, which arises above the anterior carpal, runs under the tendon of the flexor ulnaris, turns round the u na to reach the back of the carpus, anastomoses with the dorsal meta- carpal branch of the radial, and sends a twig along the fifth metacarpal bone, to form the suner- ficial dorsal artery of the little finger. The second branch of the ulnar in this situation mav arise with the one just described; it is a posterior or dorsal carpal branch, which passes backwards and anastomoses beneath the extensor tendons with the dorsal carpal branch of the radial artery ]