9,00 NEUROLOGY. The Internal Ear, or Labyrinth. The internal ear, ov lahjrinlh (f, fig. 251.), the deep-rooted and essential portion of the organ of hearing, is situated on the inner side of the tympanum, in the substance of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. It consists of the osseous labyrinth, which forms a receptacle for the membranous labyrinth, which is the immediate seat of the sense of hearing. No part of the body has a more complex and delicate structure. The labyrinth is composed of three very distinct compartments, which have been named the vestibule, the semi- circular canals, and the cochlea. The Osseous Labyrinth. Preparation. This is justly regarded as one of the most difficult dissections, even when the parts are previously known. The dissection should be made upon temporal bones from subjects of different ages, upon bones that have been macerated, upon others that have been dried without maceration, and also upon bones in the fresh state. Commence with a fcetal temporal bone, in which the labyrinth can very easily be isolated, in consequence of its being surrounded only by a spongy texture, readily yielding to the knife. In the adult, the labyrinth is, in proportion, much less developed than in the foetus, and is surrounded with so compact a tissue, that, in order to cut it, it is ne- cessary to use a chisel, a file, or a very strong scalpel. It is important to have a great number of temporal bones, so as to be able to make several different sections. Preparation of the vestibule. Open the vestibule through its upper wall, which corresponds to the upper surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, opposite the fenestra ovalis, between the superior vertical semicircular canal and the internal auditory meatus. Preparation of the semicircular canals. In the foetus, one of the semicirculai" canals projects upon the base of the petrous portion of the temporal bone ; it is easy to isolate it, as well as the other canals, by removing, with a strong scalpel, the spongy tissue in which they are imbedded. It is useful to have two preparations of the semicircular canals; one in which the canals remain entire, and another in which they have been opened. Preparation of the cochlea. Remove layer by layer that part of the petrous portion of the temporal bone which corresponds to the bottom of the internal auditory meatus. A layer of very thin spongy tissue shows, in the foetus, that we have arrived at the cochlea ; remove this spongy tissue with care, and ex- pose the cochlea, both on its upper and lower surfaces. In one preparation, the cochlea should be merely isolated; in another, it should be carefully opened, and for this purpose it is sufficient to make a simple cut into each of its turns : it is of importance not to remove the summit of the cochlea. The Vestibule. If a probe be passed from the tympanum through the fenestra ovalis (/, fig. 258.), it enters an ovoid cavity (a b t, fig. 259.) called the vestibule. The vestibule is the centre of the internal ear, and forms an inter- mediate cavity or passage (forum fo- dinse metallicse, Fesa/izw) between the semicircular canals (o p q, fig. 258.), which are on its outer side, and the cochlea (/), which is to its inner side. It is situated in a line with the axis