THE CARDIAC NERVES. 1153 they exist even when the two ganglia are directly continuous with each other. One of the branches sometimes joins the recurrent laryngeal branch of the pneumo-gastric ; the most remarkable of the inferior branches constitutes the inferior cardiac nerve, which is rather frequently derived from the superior thoracic ganglion. . To complete the description of the cervical portion of the sympathetic, we have now only to speak of the vertebral nerve and of the cardiac nerves. The Vertebral Plexus. The vertebral plexus or vertebral nerve occupies the canal which is formed for the vertebral artery in the transverse processes. It is generally said that this nerve arises from the inferior cervical ganglion; that it traverses the entire length of the canal formed for the vertebral artery, enters the cranium with that vessel, and then unites with its fellow of the opposite side to form the basilar plexus, which divides and subdivides around the terminal ramifica- tions of the basilar artery, like the plexuses which are formed around the in- ternal carotid; but such is not a correct description of the nerve. It appears to me to be formed by the junction of filaments derived from the third, fourth, and fifth cervical nerves, gradually to increase in size from above downwards as it receives new filaments, then to pass behind the artery, to emerge from the canal also behind the vessel, and finally to enter the inferior cervical ganglion. I conceive that this branch is intended to establish a communication between the third, fourth, and fifth cervical nerves and the inferior cervical ganglion. I have never found upon these branches the swellings or ganglia which, ac- cording to M. Blainville's ingenious idea, might be intended to supply the place of the cervical sympathetic ganglia, and to destroy the appearance of irregularity which exists in the cervical region in this respect. The Cardiac Nerves. Dissection. This comprises the dissection of the cardiac nerves, from their origin to the point where the aorta and pulmonary artery cross each other ; and from that point to the extreme divisions of the nerves. For this purpose, after having previously exposed the cervical ganglia and the cardiac nerves, the preparation should be macerated in diluted nitric acid; all the internal nerves which proceed from the ganglion should then be carefully dissected, so as to preserve their relations with the cardiac branches of the pneumogastric and recurrent nerves ; we must then examine the nerves which pass in front of the aorta, those which run between that vessel and the pulmonary artery and trachea and lastly, those which pass behind the pulmonary artery ; we should study at the same time their relations with the anterior and posterior cardiac plexuses. The cardiac nerves, or nerves of the heart, which are distinguished into the right and the left*, arise essentially from the cervical ganglia. These gan- glionic nerves are then joined by several branches from the pneumo-gastric ; they all converge upon the origin of the aorta and pulmonary artery to form the cardiac plexuses, which give off the right and left coronary plexuses; these latter plexus^es surround the coronary arteries, and their branches are scattered * The history of the nerves of the heart is singular. The ancient philosophers, with Aristotle, influenced by certain preconceived ideas, stated that the heart was the source of all the nerves in the body. Galen refuted this opinion, and admitted that the heart had but one very small nerve, which descended from the brain. Vcsalius considered that this slender nerve came from the recurrent, and represented it in a figure. Fallopius first described the nerves of the heart and says that he showed his audience " insigncm nervorum plexum d quo abundans copia ner- vosa materttE totam cordis basim complcxatnr, pcrque ipsam plurcs propaeincs parvorum ner- vorum dtspergtt.' Behrends in 1792 defended a thesis, in wliich he endeavoured to demonstrate that the heart has no nerves, cor nervis carerc. Such was the amount of knowledge on this sub- ject, when, m 1794, Scarpa published his splendid work, and settled the st.ite of science on this point, a abul^ Neurologicce ad Illustrandam Anaiomiam Cardiacorum Nervorum. Noni Ner- voruvi Cerebri, Glosso-pharyngcei et Pharijngm cx Octavo Cerebri). L I, 2