926 NEUROLOGY. was the principal nerve in the body, summm in corpore humano ncrvus. In tlie present day, anatomists have returned to the opinion of Praxagoras, and the spinal marow is generally regarded (Reil, Gall, Tiedemann) as the funda- mental part of the nervous system, and that the brain is merely a production an appendage, or an expansion of the cord. I shall not here enter into these purely speculative questions of production or emanation, origin, and relative importance, for the spinal cord no more produces the brain, than the brain produces it. Soemmerring has shown that, in man, the spinal cord is smaller in proportion to the size of the encepbalon than in the lower aninals; and of this there can be no doubt; but it does not follow that the lower animals have a larger spinal cord than man, in proportion to the size of their bodies : on the contrary, from actual observation I should say, that, if we except birds, man Las a relatively larger spinal cord than any other animal. Compare, indeed, the medulla of the horse, or of the ox, with that of man, and it will at once be found that the last is the largest and heaviest in proportion to the rest of the body. According to Chaussier, the weight of the spinal cord in the adult is from the nineteenth to the twenty-fifth part of that of the brain, and in the new- born infant about the fortieth part. According to Meckel, this last is also the proportion in the adult. It must be remembered, however, that Meckel exa- mined the cord when deprived of its proper membrane, and, therefore, after the roots of the nerves were detached from it. Size of the spinal cord compared with the capacity of the spinal canal. The spinal cord does not by a great deal fill up the vertebral canal, and a con- siderable interval occupied by fluids exists between it and the sides of the canal. What is the object of this disproportion ? and why is there any in- terval ? We have already stated (see Osteology), that the dimensions of the canal are in relation, not only with the size of the cord, but also with the ex- tent of motion of the vertebral column. The opinion of Vieussens, that this space is intended to allow of certain movements of elevation and depression in the spinal cord, analogous to those which have been observed in the brain, is sufiBciently refuted by the fact, that, although the latter organ is affected by movements synchronous with the respiration and with the pulse, it still fills the cavity of the cranium. * The length of the spinal cord does not correspond with that of the vertebral canal, for the cord terminates near the first lumbar vertebra (between 20 and 21, fig. 268.), whilst the canal is prolonged into the sacruin. The position of the lower end of the spinal cord has not been determined with the precision which so important a question demands. According to Winslow, it terminates opposite the first lumbar vertebra; Morgagni has seen it reach down to the second; Keuficl has observed it to descend as low as the third lumbar vertebra in one subject, and to terminate opposite the eleventh dorsal ver- tebra in another. The discrepancy between various authors upon this subject, depends upon individual varieties in the point of termination of the cord, and upon the different acceptation of the term lower extremity of the spinal cord ; some regarding the thick s woUen part as the end of the cord, whilst others in- clude in it the tapering portion also. From some experiments which I made upon this subject, by thrusting a scalpel horizontally from before backwards, * From several experiments which I have made upon this subject, it appeared that the spinal fluid seen (confined in its membranes) in the cervical region between the occipital bone and the axis, was agitated by movements synchronous with the pulse and the respiration ; but that when this fluid had been evacuated, the spinal cord did not move at all. I have examined with the greatest care the tumours existing in the lumbar region in infants afflicted with spina bifida; 1 could never detect in them any movement corresponding with the pulse, but the movement of respiration exerted a manifest influence upon them: thus, when tlie sac was emptied by compression, the cries of the infant, excited by pain, were almost instantly toliowea by extreme tension of the sac. As the spinal cord is not aff-ected by the great arteries at the base of the brain, it cannot participate in the sliglitest degree in tliose movements wnicn arc. observed in the spinal fluid at every pulse of tlie heart, and whicli are communicateu to in.u fluid by the cerebral arteries.