THE MUSCULO-CUTANEOUS NERVE. 1051 scends vertically, crossing the conjoined tendons of the latissimus dorsi and teres major, becomes applied to the skin, and divides into several very slender filaments, -which correspond to the internal, anterior, and posterior regions of the arm, and may be traced as far as the region of the elbow; one of these filaments anastomoses with the internal cutaneous. * The Musculo-cutaneous Nerve. The musculo-cutaneous nerve {b,fig. 286.), the most external of the terminal branches of the brachial plexus, and, with the exception of the internal cuta- neous, the smallest, arises by a common trunk with the external root of the median nerve (c), passes downwards and outwards, in front of the humeral insertion of the subseapularis, and on the inner side of the coraco-brachialis, which is perforated by it, and is therefore called the perforated muscle of Casserius.-\ After emerging from the muscle, through which it passes very obliquely t, the musculo-cutaneous nerve (A, fig. 288.) is situated between the biceps and the brachialis anticus, continues its oblique course, escapes from beneath the outer border of the tendon of the biceps, and then becomes sub- cutaneous. During its course along the arm it gives off the following branches: The branches for the coraco-brachialis are two in number, one superior, which enters the upper part of this muscle, and is then lost in the short head of the biceps ; the other inferior, which, in some subjects, after having furnished a certain number of filaments to the coraco-brachialis, becomes applied to the trunk of the musculo-cutaneous nerve itself. The branches for the biceps are very numerous : not uncommonly they arise by a common trunk, which then appears to result from the bifurcation of the musculo-cutaneous. One of these branches perforates the biceps, and passes transversely outwards to reach the elbow joint, to which it is distributed. The branches for the brachialis anticus almost always arise by a large common trunk which appears to result from a further bifurcation of the nerve, already diminished one half, after it has supplied the branches for the biceps. While these last-named branches enter the posterior surface of the corresponding muscle, the branches for the brachialis anticus penetrate that muscle by its anterior surface. After having given off all these muscular branches, the musculo-cutaneous nerve, reduced to a fourth or a fifth of its original size, is distributed entirely to the skin; it passes vertically downwards in front of the elbow joint, behind the median cephalic vein (a, fig. 287.), and divides into two terminal branches, of which the internal (A) runs along the inner, and the external along the outer side of the radial vein. These two branches, during their course along the fore-arm, lie between the fascia of the fore-arm and the superficial fascia; they gradually diminish in size as they give off their filaments to the skin, and terminate in the following manner: — The external branch passes to the dorsal surface of the fore-arm and may be traced as far as the skin which covers the carpus. The internal branch has a more extensive distribution ; it anastomoses with a branch of the radial nerve at the lower part of the fore-arm, and gives off a deep or articular branch which divides into several twigs that surround the radial artery. One of these twigs expands into a number of filaments which enter the fore-part of the radio-carpal articulation; the others accompany the radial artery m its oblique course upon the outer side of the carpus, and then spread out to terminate on the back part of the synovial membrane of the wrist- joint. After having given off this very remarkable articular branch (§), the ! It.?:^ internal cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral nerve.] t [The nerve is also called perforans CasseriiA X Not unfrequently the nerve does not perforate the coraco-brachialis. [It sometimes has au anastomosi. with the median nerve after emerging from the coraco-brachialis.] { In one subject, the articular filaments had some gangliform enlargements on their sides