NEUROLOGY. 108G to pressure. This filament often anastomoses with the malleolar branch of the peroneal saphenous nerve, and sometimes supplies the place of that mal leolar branch. Terminal branches. There are four terminal branches of the musculo-cu- taneous nerve, distinguished numerically as the first, second, third, and fourth (see 291.). The first or internal branch passes very obliquely forwards and inwards, to form the internal dorsal collateral nerve of the great toe ; this nerve like all nerves subjected to pressure, increases in size and becomes greyish and as it were knotted opposite the metatarso-phalangal articulation. The second branch, which often arises by a common trunk with the first, supplies the external dorsal collateral nerve of the great toe and the internal collateral nerve of the second toe. The third branch supplies the external collateral nerve of the second and the internal collateral nerve of the third toe. These two large branches are often replaced by one (u) from the anterior tibial nerve, with which they anastomose. The fourth terminal branch or internal branch sup- plies the external dorsal collateral nerve of the third and the internal dorsal collateral nerve of the fourth toe. All the filaments from these branches are distributed to the skin upon the dorsal region of the foot and digital phalanges. In a great number of subjects, the tibial or external saphenous nerve sup- plies the internal collateral nerve of the little toe, and the external collateral nerve of the fourth toe : but in others, these nerves are furnished by an ad- ditional terminal branch of the musculo-cutaneous nerve; in all cases, the nerves anastomose with each other. The Anterior Tibial or Interosseous Nerve. The anterior tibial or interosseous nerve {v v, fig. 291.), intended for the muscles on the anterior region of the leg, for the extensor brevis digitorum, and for the interosseous muscles in the foot, is as large as the muscuio-cuta- neous nerve just described ; it runs to the inner side of that nerve, beneath the extensor communis digitorum, and passes along the interosseous ligament, together with the anterior tibial artery, lying in front of that vessel. It is placed, like the artery, between the tibialis anticus and the extensor communis digitorum, from which it is separated below by the extensor proprius poUicis pedis ; it supplies a great number of filaments to all these muscles, passes with the artery under the annular ligament of the tarsus, in the sheath of the ex- tensor proprius pollicis, and divides into two branches: — The internal deep branch of the dorsum of the foot (y), which is the tme continuation of the nerve, passes horizontally forwards, under the arteria dorsalis pedis, over the first interosseous space, gives off a small twig to the muscles of that space, and divides into two branches, which form the deep ex- ternal dorsal collateral nerve of the great toe and the internal dorsal collateral nerve of the second toe. These branches communicate with the superficial dorsal branches of the musculo-cutaneous nerve, and sometimes supply their place. The external and deep nerve of the dorsum of the foot runs outwards between the tarsus and the extensor brevis digitorum, in which it terminates; it gives off in front, opposite the interosseous spaces, a series of very delicate fiJaments, which enter the posterior extremities of those spaces. The filaments for the fourth and fifth spaces often arise by a common trunk. They are extremely delicate, and are closely applied to the tarsus. The Internal Popliteal Sciatic or Tibial Nerve. The internal popliteal sciatic, internal popliteal, or tibial nerve (h,fig. 293.), is intended for all the muscles of the back of the leg, and for the skin of the sole of the foot; both in direction and size, it appears to be the continuation of the great sciatic nerve. It passes vertically downwards in the mter-condy- loid fossa of the femur it is at first placed between the heads of the gastro-