1139 K K 3 THE SPINAL ACCESSORY NERVE OF WILLIS. with the pneumogastric and is distributed -with it, and a muscular branch * (cut off in ^Sr. 301.). , . , The anastomotic branch. So intimately are the spmal accessory and pneumo- "■astric nerves connected, or as it were fused together, that, up to the time of WiUis, they were regarded as a single nerve. Willis first described the former, perhaps erroneously, as a separate nerve, under the name of nervus accessorius ad par vagum, sive nervus spinalis. In an excellent thesis, published in 1822*, M. Bischoff endeavoured to prove that the pneumogastric or par vagum and spinal accessory form but a single nerve, analogous to the spinal nerves m every respect; the spinal accessory being the nerve of motion, and the par vagum the nerve of sensation : " Nervus accessorius Willisii est nervus mo- torius, atque eandem habet rationem ad nervum vagum quana antica radix nervi spinalis ad posticam. Omnis motio cui vagus prseesse videtur, ab ilia portione accessorii quse ad vagum accidit, efScitur. Itaque vox quoque, sive musculorum laryngis et glottidis motus, ab accessorio pendet, et eo nomine accessorius nervus vocalis vocari potest." To this view there are serious objections; in the first place, it is opposed to the law that the anterior roots preside over motion and the posterior over sensation. For the filaments of origin of the spinal accessory evidently form part of the posterior roots. Again, how can it be supposed that two nerves, which, like the spinal accessory and pneumogastric, arise so distinctly from the same line, that it is often difficult to separate them, can have such opposite functions! Must we suppose that the law which regulates the anterior and posterior roots of the spinal nerves ceases to operate at the medulla oblongata ? or must we admit, with Arnold, that there is not only a decussation of fibres from side to side in the medulla oblongata, but also from before backwards, so that the posterior columns of the medulla oblongata become the motor and the an- terior the sensory ? Still, even with this hypothesis, it must be remembered that the spinal accessory arises in part below the point where this antero-pos- terior decussation is supposed to exist. There evidently is an antero-posterior decussation opposite to the two anterior pyramids, as I have elsewhere stated (see Medulla Oblongata), but the other columns of the spinal cord are not concerned in it. However this may be, the anastomotic branch of the spinal accessory may be traced, after maceration in dilute nitric acid, along the outer side of the pneumogastric. In a great number of cases, it evidently gives off the small pharyngeal nerve, which sometimes arises exclusively from the pneumogastric, and sometimes from both the pneumogastric and the spinal accessory. Scarpa declares the last arrangement to be constant and normal, and has represented it in several figures. In some subjects, the spinal accessory appears to have no share in the pharyngeal nerve, but then its anastomotic branch becomes applied to the pneumogastric below the origin of the pharyngeal nerve. The anastomotic branch appears to me to have no share in the formation of the superior laryngeal nerve ; and the same is the case with regard to the recurrent nerve. It appears to me anatomically impossible to prove the con- tinuity of the spinal accessory and the superior and recurrent laryngeal nerves; I cannot, therefore, admit that the spinal accessory supplies the in- trinsic muscles of the larynx. The spinal accessory generally gives off a number of twigs which unite in front of the reddish and as it were ganglionic trunk of the pneumogastric nerve, to form a small plexus, which adheres to that nerve, and ends in the hypoglossal nerve. » It is well to observe, that as they are passing through the foramen lacerum posterius the pneumogastric and spinal accessory nerves adhere to the dura mater, in the same manner » the Gasserian ganglion. "iiuiuer aa t Nervi Accessorii Willisii Anatomia et Physiologia. Bischoff. Darmstadii.