THE LATERAL VENTRICLES. 997 A A 4 is a conoidal eminence (m, fig. 278.) * curved upon itself, and having its larger end turned forwards, and its small end backwards. Its concave border, which is directed inwards and forwards, is bounded by a narrow, thick, and dense band, which forms a continuation of the posterior pillar of the fornix ; this is the tcenia hippocampi, so improperly named the corpus fimbriatum or fringed body (js). On raising up the taenia hippocampi (s, fig. 281.), there is seen beneath it a band of grey matter {d), which runs along the inner border of the cornu ammonis : this grey matter, which is as it were crenated by transverse furrows, has been well de- scribed by Vicq d'Azyr under the name of corps godronne, or fascia dentata. To obtain an accurate idea of the cornu ammonis, it is necessary to examine vertical sections of it, as was done by Vicq d'Azyr, who has given very good figures of such sections: it is then seen (as in fig. 281.) that the hippocampus major (m) is formed by a reflection of the hemisphere inwards upon itself, as the brothers Wenzel have very well shown; and that it is composed of a convolution doubled or turned upon itself like a horn, so that the white convex part expands in the interior of the lateral ventricle, whilst the grey concave part is upon the surface of the cerebrum.f The surface of a vertical section of the hippocampus major also presents a white spiral line (below m), which is the section of the white covering of this eminence, and a rather thick grey layer (a), which is subdivided into two smaller layers by a white streak (c); all these are arranged in a spiral manner. The white layer which forms the covering of the~ cornu ammonis is con- tinuous on the one hand with that which lines the rest of the lateral ventricle, and on the other (by means of the corpus fimbriatum, s) with the corpus cal- Icsum and the fornix. Not unfrequently a second pes hippocampi is found on the outer side of the first, to which it is concentric; it is called pes accessorius {eminentia collateralis). Meckel erroneously regards it as the result of an arrested developement. The inferior wall of the descending portion of the lateral ventricle further presents for our consideration : — The reflected or descending portion of the choroid plexus (see fig. 278.) ; and also the great transverse fissure, through which the choroid plexus becomes continuous (opposite s,fig. 281.) with the external pia mater: the lower border of this fissure is formed by the hippocampus major and corpus fimbriatum; and the upper border by the lower surface of the optic thalamus, which presents in this situation the corpus geniculatum externum (J, fig. 271.), an oblong emi- nence which is continuous with the optic tract, and the corpus geniculatum internum (i), a small rounded eminence, which is circumscribed by the corpus geniculatum externum. * I have not found, like Treviranus, the medullary substance of the anterior extremity of the cornu ammonis either continuous or communicating in any manner with the external root of the olfactory nerve ; I cinnot, therefore, admit that the functions of the cornu ammonis have any relation with those of the nerves in question. Treviranus believes that it assists in the remembrance of olfactory impressions. It is unfortunate for this hypothesis, that the animal in which the cornu ammonis is most developed, viz. the hare, is precisely that in which there is least evidence of memory. > i- j t I could never perfectly understand the structure of the cornu ammonis until I had exa- mined It in ruminantia .ind rodentia, but especially in the latter, in which it is most developed. In the rodentia the reflected portion of the hemisphere is almost as large as the hemisphere Itself; and the connexions of the cornu !>minonis with the fornix are seen most distinctly It ITJ Tru A ' " "'^ ammonis, and the corpus fimbriatum, form only one system of fibres and are continuous with each other. '