1164 NEUROLOGY. no branches in their course to the intestine. I would particularly notice the twig which accompanies the left superior colic artery. It is not uninteresting to remark that these nerves are more numerous in the iliac meso-colon which supports the sigmoid flexure than at any other point. The inferior mesenteric plexus, thus diminished by having given off other smaller plexuses, terminates like the inferior mesenteric artery by bifurcating ; the two divisions of this bifurcation are called the hcemorrhoidal plexuses; they surround the two divisions of the artery, viz. the superior hsemorrhoidal arte- ries, and terminate partly in the hypogastric plexus and partly in the rectum. The Renal and Spermatic, or Ovarian Plexuses. The renal plexuses are extremely complicated : they are formed by branches from the solar plexus, and by the two or three small splanchnic or renal nerves, and terminate almost exclusively by surrounding the renal artery. The two spermatic plexuses in the male, and ovarian plexuses in the female, are derived principally from the renal plexuses. The spermatic plexuses are destined exclusively for the testicles ; the ovarian plexuses, like the arteries of the same name, are distributed both to the ovaries and the uterus. The in- timate connexions between the nerves of the kidneys and testicles in the male, and those of the kidneys, ovaries, and uterus, in the female, deserve the most particular attention of anatomists. The Ldmbar Portion of the Sympathetic System. The lumbar portion of the trunk of the sympathetic (Z I, fig. 302.) is situated In front of the vertebral column, along the inner border of the psoas muscle. The ganglia of this region are therefore nearer the median line than the thoracic ganglia; but the inferior lumbar ganglia not unfrequeutly deviate from their ordinary position, and approach the lumbar nerves as these emerge from the spinal canal: in this case they are concealed by the psoas muscle. The lumbar ganglia of the sympathetic vary much in size ; some of them are so small that they would escape notice, if their greyish colour did not distinguish them from the rest of the trunk of the sympathetic. The number of these ganglia is also variable; there are rarely more than four. Two or three ganglia are often blended into a gangliform cord; this fusion may be easily recognised by the arrangement of the communicating fil- aments between it and the lumbar spinal nerves. In one subject, the twelfth thoracic ganglion on the right side was blended with the first lumbar ganglion : a small filament, corresponding in length to the thickness of two vertebrae, established a communication between this gan- glion and a large gangliform cord, which represented by itself the four inferior lumbar ganglia. On the left side, the second and third lumbar ganglia were united, and the fifth was blended with the first sacral. This fusion of the lumbar ganglia almost constantly exists, and it establishes a close analogy be- tween the lumbar portion of the sympathetic and the cervical portion, which, as we have already seen, has only three and frequently only two ganglia. It proves that the superior cervical ganglion may be regarded as representing five superior cervical ganglia and the ganglia corresponding to the two sets of cranial nerves, and that the inferior cervical ganglion may be viewed as the representative of two lower cervical ganglia, when the middle ganglion is wanting. Moreover, the trunk of the sympathetic is nrrtrunfrequently interrupted either between the twelfth thoracic and the first lumbar ganglion, or between the last lumbar and the first sacral ganglion : this interruption is, however, more ap- parent than real, for, as I have already stated, the continuity between the twelfth thoracic and the first lumbar ganglion is always established by means of a small twig from the renal nerve. The branches of the lumbar ganglia may be divided into, the branches ot com-