1110 NEUROLOGY. the orbit at the highest and broadest part of the sphenoidal fissure, together with the pathetic nerve.* It passes horizontally forwards, between the periosteum and the levator palpebrae superioris crossing that muscle at an acute angle, and divides at the bottom of the orbit, into two unequal branches which do not diverge until they reach the front of that cavity; these are the internal frontal and the external frontal, f The external frontal or supra-orbital nerve (r,Jigs. 296. &c.). This is larger than the internal branch; it passes out of the orbit through the supra-orbital foramen, and expands into ascending or frontal, and descending or palpebral branches. The palpebral branches are very numerous, and descend vertically in the substance of the upper eyelid; one of these branches runs horizontally outwards under the orbicularis palpebrarum, to anastomose with the branches of the facial nerve. The frontal branches are generally two in number, an external, and an internal. They form the true continuation of the external frontal nerve which almost always bifurcates as it passes through the supra- orbital foramen ; they are reflected upwards ; the external, which is the larger, passes between the frontal muscle and the periosteum ; the internal (Ji,fig. 285.) lies between the muscle and the skin; they both run somewhat obliquely up- wards and outwards, spread out into ramifications which diverge from each other at acute angles, and may be traced as far as the lambdoidal suture. Almost all these ramifications are distributed to the skin. Some of them are periosteal, and these require for their proper demonstration that the parts should be macerated in diluted nitric acid: it is doubtful whether any of them ter- minate in the frontal portion of the occipito-frontalis muscle. In some sub- jects there is a very remarkable osseous frontal branch which enters an opening in the supra-orbital foramen, and passes along a canal formed in the substance of the frontal bone ; it ascends vertically like the canal, gives off a succession of small periosteal filaments, and at length, emerging from the canal opposite to the frontal eminence, becomes subcutaneous. The internal frontal or supra-trochlear nerve is,figs. 296. 301.). This is al- most always smaller, but is sometimes as large as the external frontal; its size appears to me to be inversely proportioned to that of the external nasal and external frontal nerves together; it is often divided into two branches; it passes out of the orbit between the supra-orbital foramen and the pulley of the superior oblique (hence it is called the supra-trochlear nerve), and divides into ascending or frontal filaments, which ramify in all that portion of the in- teguments of the forehead which lies between the branches of the right and left external frontal nerves, and into descending or palpebral and nasal filaments which descend vertically ; the former set in the upper eyelid, and the latter upon the dorsum of the nose, where they anastomose with the branches of the nasal nerve. % When there are two internal frontal nerves, the inner one of them enters a fibrous ring formed in the upper part of the pulley for the superior oblique and divides into palpebral and nasal twigs, whilst the outer one supplies the frontal filaments. This outer nerve sometimes perforates the orbital arch from behind forwards in a special canal: I have seen it pass from without m- * Thp orbital nerves which enter the sphenoidal fissure are divided into two sets; tliose which pass through the fibrous ring of the external rectus, namely, the common motor nerve tCnasafbranch o?the ophthalmicTand the external motor nerve; and those which pass above «n?l t^the ou^er side of tfie preceding, immediately below the lesser ring of the sphenoid bone, befween thrperiostlum and the superior rectus, namely, the frontal branch of the ophthalmic rtrpathetic, and the lachrymal branch of the ophthalmic: the latter nerve passes separately '^\°^ol unfrelrtlflftM arises from the inner side of the frontal nerve; this mi^it be cSled the frS-L^" it passes obliquely inwards and forwards crosses over the super or nhlinupaiSoZses with the external nasal nerve, emerges from the orbit below the pulley for tCtendonTf the " iperior oblique, and terminates with the externa nasal nerve in the ?Dper eve id [This fronto-nasal branch may arise from the internal frontal nerve ] "^f TTh^e supra-trochlear nerve supplies filaments to the corrugator supernl.i, and to the or- birularls.]