THE VERTEBRAL ARTERY. 711 number of twigs, which may be traced as far as the circumference of the cerebeUum, and which anastomose with those of the superior cerebellar EirtGrv The basilar trunk. The basilar trunk (6) results from the junction or con- fluence of the two vertebral arteries. It is larger than either of them singly, but its area is not equal to the sum of their areas ; so that by this arrangement the passa"-e of the blood is accelerated. It commences opposite the furrow between the meduUa oblongata and the pons Varolii, and terminates by bifurcating in front of the anterior border of the pons ; its length, therefore, corresponds to the antero-posterior diameter of the pons, on the median furrow of which it is situated. When the vertebral arteries are displaced towards the right side (a very common condition), the basilar trunk passes horizontally or obliquely to the left, so as to reach the median furrow. It gives off no branch from its lower surface, which rests upon the basilar groove of the occipital bone. A great number of capillary twigs are detached from its upper surface, and enter the pons Varolii. From its sides proceed the anterior inferior cerebellar and the superior cerebellar. The anterior and inferior cerebellar arteries (l I) vary much in size in differ- ent subjects, and are rarely equal in this respect on the right and left sides : each of them arises from about the middle of the basilar, and occasionally from the vertebral itself, passes outwards and backwards, sometimes behind, and sometimes in front of the sixth nerve, runs along the cms cerebelli, pas.ses in front of the facial and auditory nerves, and terminates upon the anterior portion of the hemisphere of the cerebellum. The superior cerebellar arteries (f t) arise one from each side of the ba- silar, immediately before it divides into its two tenninal branches ; they might, therefore, also be regarded as terminal branches of that artery, which would thus end by dividing into four branches. Having arisen at a right angle behind the third, or motor oculi nerve, each superior cerebellar artery, ac- companied by the fourth or trochlear nerve, turns round the crus cerebri in the groove between it and the pons Varolii ; and having reached the upper surface of the corresponding crus cerebelli, divides into two branches : one external, which passes outwards on the upper surface of the cerebellum, along the anterior half of its circumference; the other internal, which is directed inwards upon the sides of the superior vermiform process, or median lobule of the cerebellum, and then subdivides into an antero-posterior branch, which passes from before backwards upon the sides of the vermiform process, as far as the circumference of the cerebellum upon which it ramifies; and a trans- verse branch, which continues the original course of the vessel towards the median line, running between the superior vermiform process and the valve of Vieussens, and being distributed to both. The terminal branches of the basilar trunk are the posterior cerebral arteries (n n) ; they arise at variable angles, are directed forwards and outwards, and then curve backwards, so as to turn round the cnis cerebri, parallel to the superior cerebellar arteries, from which they are separated by the third or motor ocuii nerve. They follow the concave border of the great transverse fissure of the brain, and having reached the posterior extremity of the corpus callosum, leave this fissure to pass backwards upon the lower surface of the posterior lobe of the cerebrum, where they may be traced as far as the occipital region. Each of the posterior cerebral arteries gives off, immediately after its origin, an immense number of small parallel twigs, which enter the substance of the brain between the anterior crura, whence the name of perfo- rated spot given to that portion of the brain. Just as each posterior cerebral artery curves backwards, it receives the communicating artery of Willis (r), which is sometimes very large, and at other times very small. When large, it evidently assists in the formation of the posterior cerebral, which, after its junction with the communicating artery, sometimes becomes doubled or trebled in size. The part performed by the internal carotid in the formation