NEUROLOGY. 1138 cessory ; with the facial nerve hy means of the auricular branch of Arnold, or the branch of the jugular fossa; and with the nerve of Jacobson,and there- fore with the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, by a twig from the same auricular branch. At its exit from the foramen lacerum posterius, it anastomoses with a large branch of the spinal accessory ; with the hypoglossal; with the glosso-pha- ryngeal ; and with the superior cervical ganglion. In the neck, it gives off the pharyngeal branch or small pharyngeal nerve the superior laryngeal nerve ; and the superior cardiac branches of the pneumogastric. In the thorax, it gives off the recurrent or inferior laryngeal nerve, which supplies some cardiac, oesophageal, pharyngeal, tracheal, and laryngeal branches; the inferior cardiac branches; and the pulmonary or bronchial branches. In regard to its structure, the pneumogastric differs essentially from the other cerebro-spinal nerves, by the tenuity of its filaments and by their plexi- form arrangement; and in both of these particulars, as well as in its distribu- tion, it rather resembles the nerves of organic than those of animal life. In the description of the sympathetic, it will be seen how intimate are its relations with the pneumogastric nerve. Functions of the pneumogastric. From the manner in which the pneumo- gastric is distributed, it follows, that it is a nerve both of sensation and of motion ; for it supplies both the lining membrane of the respiratory and di- gestive passages, and the muscles and muscular coats of the same canals. Anatomy does not confirm the ingenious idea of Bischoff, that the pneumo- gastric is essentially a nerve of sensation, and that the portion which appears to be motor really belongs to the spinal accessory. Physiologists have studied the influence of the pneumogastric upon the larynx, the lungs, the heart, and the stomach in an infinite variety of ways ; it appears from some experiments which I made upon this subject, that animals in which both pneumo- gasrics are simultaneously cut die almost immediately, when they are per- mitted to eat as much as they please ; for„ the contractility of the stomach and oesophagus being destroyed, the food, after having filled the stomach, distends the oesophagus, and passes from it into the larynx. The Third Portion of the Eighth Nerve, or the Spinal Accessory Nerve of Willis. We have already described the very remarkable origin of the spinal acces- sory nerve at the side of the cervical portion of the spinal cord, between the anterior and posterior roots of the spinal nerves, or rather immediately in front of the posterior roots, of which it appears to be a dependence : we par- ticularly alluded to the arrangement of its highest filaments of origin, which come from the restiform bodies, and are continuous above with the roots of the pneumogastric, so that they sometimes even join that nerve, and below with the posterior roots of the spinal nerves. Lastly, we have pointed out the varieties of its origin, its connexions with the first pair of cervical nerves, of which it almost always forms the posterior roots, its ascending course to the foramen magnum, through which it enters the cranium, and its exit from the skull by the foramen lacerurn posterius. It emerges from the foramen lacerum posterius, by an opening quite dis- tinct from that for the glosso-pharyngeal, but common to itself and the pneumogastric nerve, behind which it is situated (8,/jr. 301.). Whilst passmg through the foramen lacerum posterius, it lies in contact with the ganghonic enlargement of the pneumogastric, and is connected with the ganglion by very delicate filaments, but it neither assists in the formation of that enlargement, nor is blended with it: at its exit from the foramen, it divides mto two branches of equal size; an inte^-nal or anastomotic, which remains in contact