TERMINATION OF THE LYMPHATICS. 816 either bv bifurcation, or direcUy with the neighbouring lymphatic vessel. «tlier Dy .d""-"-" Kv iniectine a single lymphatic, a certain group of these JesseirmaTbeS'd ' Z rffequentfy a &tic divides into two branches, which after a certain distance, agam umte. n ; j 7v Cb" their course, the lymphatic vessels mee certain smal ^fand^Y"™ bodierthe cLlobate glands of the ancients, but which are also called lymphatic caSiz on account of the analogy pointed out by Soemmernng between them ind he Lnglia of nerves; the lymphatic glands form centres, to which a number ff lymphatic vessels proceed, and are lost in them for a time, but from which they afterwards emerge. v. x • r j Thrname of afferent lymphatics (vasa afferentia, a a a, Jig. 225.) is apphed to those which enter a gland, and those which emerge from it are called efferent Ivmvhatics (vasa efferentia, bb). .i. , j , Do all the lymphatics necessarily traverse one or more of these glands? Mascagni has successfiilly maintained the affirmative in opposition to Hewson and others who assert that they have seen lymphatics entering directly into the thoracic duct. Mascagni states, that he invariably found that these vessels passed through one or more glands. As to the argument derived from the absence of dropsy in cases of obstruction in the lymphatic glands, Mascagni explains this by the frequent anastomoses of the lymphatic vessels, the result of which is, that they communicate with several series of glands, some of which are situated at very great distances. The most numerous anastomoses of the lymphatics take place -within the lymphatic glands; thus, if we inject the afferent vessels of a lymphatic gland, the mercury escapes by its efferent vessels. In injecting a gland, it frequently happens, that the mercury passes not only into the efferent, but also into some of the afferent vessels. Size of the lymphatics. The lymphatics are generally so small, as to escape the notice of the observer; but they may become enlarged to a remarkable degree. Thus, I have seen the lymphatics of the groin and of the uterus as large as the thumb. An attempt has been made to draw some comparison between the total ca- pacities of the lymphatic, venous, and arterial systems ; but all that has been said respecting this is founded upon no positive data. I would moreover observe, that in all probability we are acquainted with but a portion of the lymphatic system. Termination of the Lymphatics. According to the most generally received opinion, all the lymphatics ter- minate in two trunks, the thoracic duct and the great right lymphatic duct; the latter vessel receives the lymph from the right upper extremity, and from the right half of the head, neck, and thorax ; the lymphatic vessels of aU the other parts of the body end in the thoracic duct; the lymphatic vessels enter suc- cessively into these two trunks, as the plumes of a feather are attached to its shaft. The two trunks themselves end as follows: the thoracic duct enters the left subclavian vein, at the junction of that vein with the internal jugular; the great right lymphatic duct terminates in the right subclavian vein; hence it is that the lymphatic system may be regarded as an appendage of the venous system. Are the thoracic and the great right lymphatic ducts, notwithstanding their small size, the only terminations of the lymphatic system ? With this question may be connected another—Are the lymphatics the exclusive agents of ab- sorption, or do they share this function with the veins ? Mascagni appeared to have established beyond dispute, that absorption was performed by the lymphatics to the exclusion of the veins; when Magendie * • It 1> established, says M. Magendie, that the lacteals absorb the chyle, and that the Intes- tinal veins absorb other substances. It is shown that the veins are the absorbing aeents lu VOL. II. V