THE HEART. 645 B 4 Fig. 134. number and have been named the muscles of the heart (musculi papiUares). The fleshy columns of the second kind are free throughout the whole of their extent excepting at their extremities, -which are attached to the walls of the ventricle These columns, which are the most numerous, are divided and subdivided to form the areolae. The third kind of columnse carneae adhere to the waUs of the ventricle by one of their sides; they are therefore sculp- tured like pilasters upon the walls of the ventricle. ^ , ^ „ , Most of the columns carnese pass from the apex towards the base ot the heart In all their free portion, the columns of the two first kinds are at- tached to each other or to the waUs of the ventricle, by means of small tendi- nous cords, which are much more delicate than those proceeding to the valves. The areolar muscular structure just described is the essential constituent of the waUs of the ventricle, but in addition to it there is a rather thin, com- pact, and non-reticulated layer of superficial fibres, on which depends the smooth appearance of the external surface of the ventricle. The orifices of the right ventricle. At the base of the right ventricle there are two orifices, one auricular, which establishes a communication between the ventricle and the auricle, the other arterial, which leads into the pulmonary artery. They are both furnished with valves. The right auricular or auriculo-ventricular orifice (through which the bristle is inserted, yijr. 193.) is placed at the posterior and right part of the base of the ventricle; it is ellip- tical, and is provided with a membranous struc- ture, called the tricuspid or triglochin valve (c), which projects into the interior of the ventricle. This valve is of an annular form (annulus val- vulosus). Its ventricular surface (t t t,fig. 194.) is directed towards the parietes of the ventricle, and receives a great number of small tendinous cords, which being attached to it at different points, give it an irregular aspect. Its auricular surface (jt 11, 195.), which is turned towards the axis of the ventricle, is smooth. The adherent border is fixed to the margin of the auri- cular orifice. The free border or margin forms a ring, the diameter of which is equal to that of the adherent border: this margin is irregularly divided, so that, instead of the three segments (ttt) generally described, and from which the name of the valve has been derived (jpeis, tres, three, and y\wx^s, cuspis, a point), some authors admit four or even six segments. The construction of the tricuspid valve can be understood only by regarding it as composed of two parts, an anterior, corresponding to the anterior half of the elliptical auriculo-ventricular orifice, and a posterior, corresponding to the posterior half of the same. The tricuspid valve is not unfrequently interrupted on the left side opposite the junction of these two valves. This valve might with as much propriety be termed mitral, as that which is attached to the left auriculo-ventricular opening. To the free margin of the valve, upon which some small nodules are oc- casionally found, are attached a number of tendinous cords of a nacreous aspect, which are extremely strong considering their tenuity. These small cords, or rather tendinous filaments, always arise in greater or less number from the summits of the columnse carneae; diverging from thence, often bifurcating during their course, and sometimes becoming united together, they terminate, some at the free margin, others at the ventricular surface of the valve, and others again at its adherent border. All the small tendinous cords do not arise from the columnse carneae of the