841 THE PIGMENT UM. per coloured variety : they depend upon the presence of a colouring matter, called the pigmentum, which exists in the European as well as in the negro, thouo-h iu a less marked degree, and which is deposited beneath the epidermis. This colouring matter, or pigmentum {b',fig.226.; c,fig. 227.), may be demon- strated in the skin of the negro (represented in fig. 226.) with the greatest facility by means of maceration. It is then found not to be contained iu special vessels as Bichat supposed, but to be deposited beneath the epidermis, where it constitutes an uniform layer, that either comes oS with the epidermis, or remains attached to the dermis, but is independent of either.* The epidermis, the papilliE, and the chorion are of precisely the same colour in the negro as in the white races. The pigmentum of the skin is identical in every respect with the choroid pigment in the eye, and is formed of black molecules inso- luble in water. Blumenbach conjectured that this black matter was nothing more than carbon : several experiments appeared to confirm this opinion, but it is now generally believed to be formed by the colouring matter of the blood.* In the European it escapes obseiTation, because it does not differ much in colour from the epidermis and dermis. The colour of the skin, which is a matter of such interest in the natural history of mankind, and which forms one of the principal characters of the se- veral human races, has a tolerably constant relation to the colour of the hair : thus, individuals with light hair have generally fairer skins than such as have dark hair; and thus, also, red hair is accompanied with a somewhat analogous colour of the skin. In albinos the colouring matter is deficient in the skin, as it is in the hair, and in the interior of the eye. Moreover, the transition, in regard to the colour of the skin, from the white to the black races of mankind occurs through a succession of intermediate shades : thus, I have found a co- louring matter precisely similar to that of the negro's skin beneath the epi- dermis of several Europeans, particularly upon the scrotum, and upon the tanned faces of those who have lived exposed to a strong solar heat. In the disease called black or green jaundice, the skin of white persons becomes black or oUve coloured. A superficial chronic irritation produced by blisters, or certain skin diseases, or by an adjacent wound, will also sometimes cause a black discoloration of the skin. As to the source of the pigment of the skin, it is thought by M. Gauthier that it is yielded by the bulbs of the hairs. M. Breschet describes a series of glandular organs for secreting this pigment, which, according to him, are situ- ated in deep furrows in the outer portion of the dermis, and are surmounted by a great number of excretory tubes, from which the globules of pigment are poured out beneath the epidermis. I have never been fortunate enough to ascertain the existence of these glandular organs and their excretory tubes. It IS generaUy supposed, that the vessels of the cutaneous papiUa; are the source whence the pigment is derived ; the mechanism of its formation must be the same as that of the formation of the choroid pigment in the eye, and it is quite as little understood.* The epidermis. The epidermis, or cuticle (b,fig. 226.; ab,fiq. 227.), is the outermost of the several layers of the skin ; it is a semi-transparent, horny layer which is moulded upon the surface of the dermis and its papilla; like a coat of varnish, and protects them from the action of external agents. Its in- ternal surface IS in fact marked by a multitude of little pits, into each of which a papi la is received ; so that this sufface of the epidermis may be said to form a mould of the papillary surface of the skin. In the skin of the negro, the colouring matter occupies the little pits in the epidermis, and is found in greater abundance between the papUlaj than upon them. In order to obtain a good view of the structure of the internal surface of the epidermis, various sections may be made of the skin upon the palms of the hands and soles of the feet. It wiU then be seen that the papUla^ dip, as it * See note, p. 844.