892 NEUROLOGY. The membrana tympaniic,fig.26\.) is a nearly circular, semi-transparent membranous septum, dry-looking lUie parchment, and vibratile; it is situated between the external auditory meatus, at the bottom of which it may be seen in the hving subject, and the cavity of the tympanum. It is directed very ob- liquely downwards and inwards; so that, instead of passing perpendicularly ^ across the auditory meatus, it is continuous, at a very slight angle, with the upper wall of that canal. In consequence of this obliquity, the membrana tympam unites with the lower waU of the meatus, at an angle of about 45°, and the meatus itself terminates in such a manner that its lower wall is much longer than the upper. The external surface of the membrana tympani is free, and is directed downwards and outwards ; the internal surface is turned upwards and inwards, and adheres very firmly to the handle of the bone of the ear, called the malleus,' by which it is drawn inwards, so that its centre presents a funnel-shaped de- pression, which is concave externally and convex within. The circumference of the membrane is fitted, like a watch-glass, into a circular furrow formed at the inner end of the external meatus in the adult, and into the tympanic ring in the foetus. Above and behind, near its insertion into its bony frame, the membrana tympani is elevated by a small process (the short process) of the malleus. Immediately on the inner side of the insertion of the membrana tympani, opposite the posterior extremity of a line drawn across its middle, is situated a small foramen, the orifice of a canal which transmits the chorda tt/mpani nerve. Is the membrana tympani perforated ? Some anatomists have asserted that there is an aperture between the membrane and the bone, at one point of its circumference ; and others have believed that an oblique slit traverses the membrane. But these perforations do not exist in the natural state; so that the membrana tympani forms a complete septum between the tympanum and the external auditory meatus. Notwithstanding its tenuity and transparency, the membrana tympani con- sists of three very distinct layers. The external or epidermic layer is a pro- longation of the epidermic portion only of the skin which lines the external meatus. The internal or mucous layer is a prolongation of the extremely thin mucous membrane which lines the tympanum. The handle of the malleus is situated between this and the middle layer. The middle or proper layer, on which the strength of the membrane depends, appears to be of a fibrous nature. According to Sir Everard Home, it is mus- cular ; he states that he distinctly saw muscular fibres radiating from the centre to the circumference, first in the elephant, and afterwards in the ox, and in the human subject. * By fine injections some very delicate vessels are demonstrated in the mem- brane. The network represented by Soemmerring, who only injected the arte- ries, is not nearly so dense as that which may be displayed by filling the veins. If a blue injection be thrown into the jugular vein of the foetus, the whole membrane will become of that colour, and will present an exceedingly fine vascular network under a lens. In a new-born infant, which had died with in- flammation of the tympanum, the membrane was found quite red. The blood- vessels appear to be situated entirely in the internal layer; they run from the circumference towards the centre of the membrane ; and this arrangement has probably led to the supposition of the existence of radiated muscular fibres. The use of the membrana tympani is to transmit the sonorous vibrations, received through the external auditory meatus to the air contained within the tympanum, and to the ossicula of the ear. Its obliquity, besides increasing the dimensions of this vibratile membrane, has certainly some use in the re- flection of sonorous v ibrations. As it adheres to one of the chains of small bones • Philosophic.il Transactions, p. 23. 1823. To his paper arc annexed Uirec plates repre- senting the membrana tympani in the elephant, the ox, and man.