THORACIC PORTION OF THE SYMPATHETIC SYSTEM. 1157 quently found at the junction of the principal branches. This great cardiac plexus is chiefly formed by the middle and inferior cardiac nerves of both sides : [it also receives part of the right superficial nerves]. Lastly, all the cardiac nerves end in the third set of anastomoses, namely those upon the anterior and posterior coronary arteries around the root of the aorta. Great as the variety may be" in the course and size of the cardiac nerves up to the origin of the great vessels from the heart, there is as constant a uniformity in their aiTangement around those vessels, and in their ultimate distribution to the heart. . ■, • , Upon the origin of the great vessels, the cardiac nerves are arranged in three layers or sets. . . • /, The superficial layer of nerves is the smallest; it occupies the anterior surface of*he arch of the aorta, and especially its right side ; the nerves are visible without any dissection through the transparent pericardium ; they all pass (u) to the anterior coronary artery, to the right side of the infundibulum of the right ventricle. In this superficial layer, the superficial cardiac plexus, may be included the ganglion of Wrisberg, when it exists, and its several branches, which in a great measure assist in forming the anterior coronary plexus. The middle layer of nerves is composed of two very distinct parts, viz. of the great or deep cardiac plexus of Haller, which is situated between the trachea and the arch of the aorta, above the right pulmoiiary artery ; and of a much smaller part, situated below the great cardiac plexus, from which it is derived, and between the right pulmonary artery and the arch of the aorta. In order to obtain a good view of this layer, the arch of the aorta must be cut through. The deep layer of nerves is situated berween the right pulmonary artery and the bifurcation of the trachea. The trunk of the pulmonary artery must be divided in order to expose it. TTie anterior and posterior coronary plexuses. The whole of the superficial cardiac plexus or superficial layer of nerves ends in the anterior coronary plexus (d) which surrounds the right coronary artery. The middle and pos- terior layers unite below the right pulmonary artery, in front of the auricles, to form a plexus which might more properly be named the great or deep cardiac plexus than the interlacement so called by Haller. From this plexus, into which the left inferior cardiac nerve enters dii-ectly, the following branches proceed; anterior auricular branches, which are very numerous; certain branches which pass between the aorta and the pulmonary artery to gain the right side of the infundibulum, and join the anterior coronary plexus, which, as we have seen already, is derived from the superficial cardiac plexus ; lastly, the branches for the posterior coronary plexus, which surrounds the origin of the left coronary artery, and divides, like that vessel, into two secondary plexuses ; one of which runs around the left auriculo-ventricular furrow, whilst the other («') enters the anterior ventricular furrow. The nervous filaments from these plexuses soon leave the ramifications of the arteries; they proceed separately ; they are all equally small, and can be seen without any dissection, like white lines, extending from the base towards the apex of the heart. They all belong to the ventricular portion of the heart; a few of them however ascend on the posterior surface of the auricles, which are much more abundantly supplied upon their anterior surface. The cardiac nerves are not entirely distributed to the heart; several of them are lost in the coats of the aorta, some join the anterior pulmonary plexus, and some ramify in the pericardium. The Thoracic Portion of the Sympathetic System. In the thorax, the trunk of the sympathetic {i t,fig. 302.) consists on each side of a greyish cord, having as many nodules or ganglia upon it as there are vertebrEB. This cord is situated, not in front of the dorsal vertebras but in front of the heads of the ribs, to which the ganglia for the most part corre- L L 4