THE THORACIC DUCT. 821 N 4 The thoracic duct (s t tu, fig. 223.), so called from its situation, is the •common trunk of all the lymphatics of the human body, excepting those of the riffht side of the head, neck, and thorax, and of the right upper extremity. It commences opposite the second lumbar vertebra, by the junction of a variable number of branches: Meckel says there are three, but I have gene- rally found five or six. These vessels, which are usually of large size, pass out from the abdominal lymphatic glands: they all converge towards a dilatation or ampulla of a triangular shape, which is called the reservoir or cistern of Pecquet (cisterna, receptaculum chyli, s,fig. 223.), after the anatomist who showed that the lacteals did not pass to the liver, as was generally believed in accordance with the opinion of Aselli, but that they entered the thoracic duct. This ampulla, which is often nothing more than the point at which the lymphatic vessels meet, and presents no dilatation, is situated to the right of and behind the aorta, immediately below the aortic opening in the diaphragm, and by the side of the right crus of that muscle. Having commenced thus, the thoracic duct passes vertically upwards, enters the thorax through the aortic opening in the diaphragm, and becomes situated in the posterior mediastinum («<), in front of the vertebral column, a little to the right of the median line, and has the vena azygos (a a') on its right side, and the aorta on its left. Having reached the front of the fourth dorsal vertebra, it inclines towards the left, stLU continuing to ascend, passes behind the aorta, gains the left side of the oesophagus, runs along behind and on the inner side of the left subclavian artery, and escapes through the superior opening of the thorax ; having arrived behind the left internal jugular vein, and in front of the seventh cervical vertebra, it immediately bends forwards, so as to form an arch (u) like that of the aorta, and finally opens into the angle formed by the junction of the left internal jugular and subclavian veins, or sometimes into the subclavian vein externally to that angle. The direction of the thoracic duct is not straight but flexuous : its windings are sometimes very nimierous. From the relations of the thoracic duct whilst within the posterior medias- tinum, it follows, that, in order to expose its lower portion, it must be sought for on the right side of that cavity, and that we must look for its upper portion on the left side, and must divide the left layer of the mediastinum in order to expose it. , The thoracic duct terminates in many different ways: thus, it not un- frequently opens by several trunks into the left internal jugular and subclavian veins. A still more frequent method of termination, and one which it is ex- tremely important to know, is that in which the duct at its upper part is divided into two branches, the left one of which (ji) is distributed in the usual manner, whilst the right (indicated by a smaller letter u), opens into the right sub- clavian vein in connection with the great lymphatic duct of the right side. The caliber of the thoracic duct is not at all proportioned to the number and size of the lymphatics which terminate in it. Sometimes, in fact, lymphatics are found which, when distended, are as large as a goose-quill. Still less is it proportioned to all the lymphatics of the body, of which it is regarded as the common trunk. Its caliber is even smaller than that acquired by some lymph- atics under many circumstances; for example, by those of the uterus during pregnancy : this is a powerful argument in favour of those who regard the thoracic duct as by no means corresponding to all the lymphatics of the human body. The thoracic duct is not of uniform caliber in its entire length. It com- mences by a dilatation of two or three lines in diameter ; in the middle of the thorax it becomes contracted to less than two lines in diameter, and it is again dilated a little at the arch which it forms before its termination. The thoracic duct not unfrequently divides during its course into several branches, which form a sort of network ; it often subdivides into two branches of unequal size, which unite again after a variable distance.