THE SEMICIRCULAR CANALS. 901 S 4 of the internal auditory meatus. It is remarkable for having a great number of both large and small openings into it. . ^ ^ r ^ The larqe openings are seven in number: the first is the fenestra ovahs (J, figs. '>5B 261 ) which would establish a free communication between the vestibule of the tympanum if it were not for the base of the stapes, which closes it hermeti- cally as wc may be convinced by examining it from the vestibule, when the stapes remains in its place.* There are>e openings (o' p'q',fi9. 259.; o' a', fig. 261.) for the three semicircular canals; fig- 259. and the seventh is the orifice (<) of the vestibular scala of the cochlea. In macerated bones we find, besides, an eighth opening, situated below the fenestra oval is, having an oblong shape, and leading into the highest part of the fenestra rotunda. Of the small openings, the first is the orifice (r,fig. 259.) of the aqueduct Osseous lai.yiintii of the left side. of the vestibule, which opens upon the Mas.>ifiedtwodiumete.s. posterior wall of this cavity to the inner side of the common opening for the two vertical semicircular canals (i. e. in the recessus sulciformis). The aqueduct of the vestibule turns a short distance around that common opening, and then bending at a right angle, terminates upon the posterior surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone by an orifice already described (see Osteology). The other small openings in the vestibule are foramina for the passage of vessels and nerves ; they form the macula cribrosa, which corresponds with the bottom of the internal auditory meatus. The character of the vestibule is irregularly ovoid, and is divided by z. crista into two fossas ; one inferior and hemispherical, named the fovea hemispherica (a, fig. 259.), the other, superior and semi-elliptical, called the fovea semi- elliplica (6), Morgagni has described a third groove-like fossa (recessus sulciformis), situated at the mouth of the common orifice of the two superior semicircular canals. TJie Semicirculai' Canals. The semicircular canals, three in number, represent three cylinders or tubes (tubaeformes canales, Soemmerring'), of equal diameters, and curved very re- gularly, so as to describe portions of circles ; they are situated within the sub- stance of the base of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, behind the vestibule, into which they open by the five orifices already described. They have been named the great, the middle, and the small semicircular canals ; terms which have caused much confusion, because the differences be- tween them, in regard to length, are not alone sufiicient to distinguish them from each other. Their direction forms a much better ground of distinction between them. Two are vertical, and one is horizontal: there is an anterior and superior vertical, and a posterior and ire/enor vertical canal; the horizontal canal is external, and is situated between the two others. The superior vertical canal {p, figs. 258. 260.), which describes two thirds of a circle, is placed at the highest part of the labyrinth, immediately to the outer side of the vestibule. A plane passing through the two branches of this canal would cut the base of the petrous portion almost at a right angle. The convexity of this canal is turned upwards, and its concavity downwards. In the fuetus, its concavity is free, so that it can be seen without any dissection; but in the adult it is filled up with osseous tissue. ^J^''" ^^^^ ""^ retained in its situation, and the complete closure of the fenestra ovalis 16 efTected, by the reflection of the lining membrane of the tympanum on the one hand and by that of the lining membrane of the labyrinth on the other.]