NEUROLOGY. 1U2 Tlie descending branch {ramus descendcns noni, h,figs. 298. 300, 301 ). This is the most remarkable branch of the hypo-glossal nerve.* It comes "off at the pomt where the nerve changes its direction, descends vertically in front of the internal carotid and then of the common carotid, curves outwards, and anastomoses upon the internal j ugular vein with the descending branch of the cervical plexus {z,fig. 298.) so as to form a loop, having its concavity turned upwards. From the convexity of this loop two branches proceed, of which one is distributed to the omo-hyoid, whilst the other (g) divides into two twigs, one of which enters the outer border of the sterno-hyoid, while the other penetrates the deep surface of the sterno-thyroid muscle. I have seen one of these branches come directly from the hypo-glossal.f It is equally important to study both the mode of origin and anastomosis of the descending branch of the ninth nerve. J The origin of this branch is, in fact, almost entirely from the anastomotic branches of the first and second cervical nerves, which, after having been m contact with the hypo-glossal, are given off from it to constitute the descending branch. This arrangement is especially evident in preparations that have been macerated in diluted nitric acid. I should state, however, that it is not equally evident in all subjects; and that some filaments, derived from the hypo-glossal itself, always join those from the cervical nerves. It has appeared to me that the most internal of the filaments derived from the hypo-glossal nerve itself followed a retrogade course; that is to say, that it ran from below upwards, as if it arose at the terminal extremity of the hypo-glossal, and then left that nerve to join the descendens noni at the point where that branch is given off. The branches from the first and second cervical nerves to the hypo-glossal should be regarded as late origins of that nerve, which is sensibly increased in size after being joined by them. I have seen the third and even the fourth cervical nerve assist in the formation of the descendens noni; the branch from the fourth nerve arose partly from the phrenic. The mode of anastomosis of the descendens noni with the descending branch of the cervical plexus, or rather of the third cranial nerve, is subject to much variety. The following is the most frequent an-angement: All the filaments composing these two descending branches unite together, * See note, last page. t [Another branch is described and figured by Arnold as descending in front of the vessels, and joining the ciirdiac nerves in the thorax.] % There are certain cases in which the descendens noni is analysed by nature; namely, when the branch from the second cervical nerve is not applied to the hypo-glossal, but remains at a distance from it. In this case the filaments derived from the hypo-glossal join themselves to this branch ; one of them ascends towards the origin of the second cervical nerve, and the others proceed towards its termination. In one case, the hypo-glossal gave a very small twig to the first cervical nerve, before receiving its accustomed branch from that nerve ; the descending branch from the cervical plexus was replaced by three branches derived from the first, second, third, and fourth cervical nerves, which formed together with the descendens noni and its branches, a suc- cession of loops, in front of the external and common carotids. In another case, the tliree superior cervical nerves assisted in forming the descendens noni. The following is a detailed description of that case, which throws considerable light upon the connexions between the hypo-glossal and cer- vical nerves. One large branch proceeded from the anastomotic arch of the first and second cer- vical nerves ; this large branch, as soon as it reached the hypo-glossal nerve, divided into three filaments of unequal size : an ascending, wliichwas directed towards the origin of the hypo-glos- sal nerve ; a middle, which became blended with that nerve ; and a descending, which was the largest and which merely ran along in contact with the same nerve. At the point where this last-named filament left the hypo glossal to form the descendens noni, it evidently received a twi" from the hypo-glossal itself, which came from the lower part of that nerve, and was re- flected upon the descendens noni in a retrograde manner, so that this twig, derived from the hypo-glossal, had one end at the terminal extremity of that nerve, «'. e. in the muscles of the tongue, and the other end in the muscles of the infra-hyoid region. In this same case, the de- scendiiig branch of the second cervical nerve divided into three filaments, one of which joined the hypo-glossal nerve, another formed an anastomotic arch with the third cervical nerve, whilst the third filament passed downwards to assist in forming the descending branch of the cervical plexus Lastly the third cervical nerve in this case gave ofi' an ascending branch which anas- tomosed with the second, and a descending branch which assisted in forming the descending l).-anch of the cervical plexus ; there were therefore two loops or arches, one internal and the other external; they wore situated ojiposite to the bifurcation of the common carotid artery.