STRUCTURE OF THE LYMPHATICS. 817 Lippi (of Florence) denies the communication of the lymphatics with the veins within the lymphatic glands; hut helieves that, besides the terminations of the lymphatics in the venous system through the thoracic duct and the great rWbt lymphatic trunk, there are a great number of direct communications between the lymphatics and the vena ports, the internal pudic and the renal veins and the vena cava ascendens and vena azygos. Several anatomists, indeed, had already met with lymphatic vessels open- ing directly into the venous system; among whom were Walosus, Wepfer, Abraham Kaw, Hebenstreit, the elder Meckel, Caldani, and Vrolyk; but the isolated facts recorded by them were regarded by Haller, Mascagni, and Soemmerring as anomalies, or as the results of rupture. The memoir published by Lippi excited new investigations on all sides. I was the more inclined to subscribe to the opinion of that observer, because, in 1825, I had most distinctly seen a large lymphatic trunk opening directly into the external iliac vein; because it appeared to me rational to admit, that the communications between the lymphatic and venous systems would not be re- stricted to the internal jugular and subclavian veins; because the com- munications supposed to exist by Fohmann and Lauth had not been demon- strated; because ligature of the thoracic duct does not prove fatal to all animals subjected to that experiment, even when the duct is single; and, lastly, because the thoracic duct has been found obliterated in many individuals. There seemed, besides, a difficulty in admitting that the thoracic and right lymphatic ducts formed the termination of the whole of the lymphatic vessels. It appeared, moreover, at variance with the general laws of the animal economy to suppose that two sets of organs should be devoted to the same functions ; for if the veins absorb, the lymphatic system would seem to have no special use. Nevertheless, truth compels me to state, that, after the most minute and frequent researches which I have been able to make, I have not obtained a single result confirmatory of the statements of M. Lippi; and that, with his plates before me, I have searched for the communications in all the points which he has indicated, and have never found any. I am, therefore, obliged to conclude with MM. Rossi, Fohmann, and others, that the vessels which M. Lippi has described as lymphatics opening into different parts of the venous system, are nothing more than veins. Structure of the Lymphatics. The lymphatics, as well as the veins, have two coats. This structure can be readily shown in the thoracic duct of the human subject, and still better in that of the horse: the existence of these two coats may also be shown by a method suggested by Cruickshank, which consists in turning the thoracic duct inside out, and forcibly introducing a tube into it; the lining membrane, which is then on the outside, being less extensible than the external coat, becomes lacerated. The external coat is considered to be fibrous by some, and muscular by others. Sheldon says, that he has distinctly seen muscular fibres arranged circularly around the thoracic duct of the horse. It appears to me, that this external coat resembles the dartoid tissue like the outer coat of the veins. It IS not uninteresting to remark, that the outer surface of the lymphatics is often covered by a thin layer of fat, which has deceived several anatomists. The internal coal of the lymphatic vessels appears to be of a serous nature hke that of the veins. Some arterial and veno-is twigs ramify in their parietes; but no nei-ves have yet been traced into them. Minute lymphatics probably arise from the coats of the larger ones. Mascagni believes that their linine membrane is entirely lymphatic. Notwithstanding their excessive tenuity, the lymphatics are tolerably strong less so, however, than is generally stated, for they are often lacerated bv the N 2