NEUROLOGY. 1116 brane had been rendered transparent by long maceration in diluted nitric acid Kather frequently a filament was given off from the upper part of the nerve' and then joined it again. Three times only did I observe a twig running up' wards from the anterior part of the nerve. The external splimo-palatine, or superior nasal nerves (upper f, fig. 299.), so called to distinguish them from the inferior nasal branch of the anterior pa- latine nerve, are three or four in number ; they are directed vertically along the back part of the outer wall of the corresponding nasal fossa, and spread out into filaments which extend over the turbinated bones and the meatus ; these filaments can only be seen from the deep surface of the pituitary mem- brane.* I have never been able to find the anastomoses between the internal and ex- ternal spheno-palatine nerves and the divisions of the olfactory nerve, which are admitted by some anatomists. The Vidian or Pterygoid Nerve. The vidian nerve (v,figs. 300, 301.) arises from the back part of Meckel's ganglion, and enters the vidian or pterygoid canal, after emerging from which it perforates the cartilaginous plate of the foramen laceram anticus, and divides into a superior cranial branch, the great superficial petrosal nerve, and an inferior, deep, or carotid branch. The subdivision of the pterygoid nerve often occurs at its origin from Meckel's ganglion. The inferior or carotid branch, which is much larger than the superior, forms the continuation of the nerve : it enters the carotid canal, and is applied to the outer side of the carotid artery, where it anastomoses with the nerves which establish a communication between the superior cervical ganglion and the ex- ternal motor nerve of the eye, and assists in the formation of the carotid plexus; a flattened gangliform enlargement is seen at the point of anasto- mosis. I have sometimes seen two carotid branches, one of which was very small. The superior or cranial branch, the great superficial petrosal nerve, enters the cranium between the temporal and sphenoid bones, runs backwards and out- wards (v, fig. 296.) beneath the dura mater, in a groove on the upper surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, passes through the hiatus Fallopii into the aqueductus Fallopii or canal for the facial nerve (part of 7), and anas- tomoses with that nerve.f I say that it anastomoses, because there is a sort of fusion of the two nerves, and not a simple juxta-position. The branch called the chorda tympani, which comes off from the facial nerve at some distance from the point of fusion, should not be regarded as a prolongation of the su- perficial petrosal nerve, supposed in that case to be merely applied to the facial nerve.f • Bock, and Arnold after him, have described, under the name of the pharyngeal branch, a rather large branch, which may be regarded as belonging to the external spneno-palatine nerves; it enters into the pterygo-palatine canal, formed between the under surface of the sphenoid and the sphenoidal process of the palate bone, passes backwards and inwards, and divides into several filaments which are distributed to the upper part of the pharynx. [Some of these superior nasal branches are said to supply the lining membrane of tne posterior eth- moidal, and the sphenoidal sinuses.] t I have seen the superior brancfi of the vidian formed by three very distinct filaments : ana- tomists are still undecided as to whether the inferior or carotid branch is derived from the ganglion of Meckel, or from the superior cervical ganglion. According to Arnold, it resembles the organic system of nerves in its colour, softness, and structure. I cannot coincide in this opinion, for it appears to me that the cranial and carotid branches of the vidian are an.-Uogous In every respect. .... , j ^ tt' , t Arnold, who regards this opinion of Hippolyte Cloquet, which is adopted bjr Hirsel, as erroneous, states that, at the junction of the cranial branch of the vidian with the lacial nerve, there is a gangliform swelling, in which he finds some analogy to the intervertebral ganglia, and which he considers to be a transition between a gangliform stalk and a true ganglion. According to Arnold, the superficial or cranial branch, and the deep or carotid branch of the vidian do not come from a common trunk, but are merely juxta-posed, .and are distinct through- out their entire extent. The carotid branch is soft and reddish, presents all the characteristics of the ganglionic nerves, and is intended to establish a communication between the superior