745 THE EXTERNAL PUDIC ARTERIES. 1 compressed against the femur from within outwards in the middle third of the 1 thigh. On its inner inside, it is in relation with the pectineus, the adductor longus, and afterwards with the outer border of the sartorius. Rela tions of the artery with the vein and nerves. The femoral vein is situated on the inner side of the artery above, but it soon passes behind it, and, still lower down, is on its outer side. The crural nerve lies on the outer side of the artery, from which it is separated by a fibrous layer belonging to the sheath of the psoas and iliacus. The artery and nerve therefore have no immediate relation with each other ; but the internal or long saphenus nerve soon runs upon the sheath of the femoral vessels, and is situated on the outside of the artery; but as the vessel is passing through the tendon of the adductor mag- nus, the nerve leaves it, and, lower down, escapes from under the tendon of the sartorius. The short saphenus nerve, or nerve of the internal vastus, is in re- lation with the outer side of the artery for a short distance; and the vessel is also crossed by another small nerve. The sheath of the femoral vessels. The femoral artery and vein are inclosed in a proper fibrous sheath, which is constructed, as it were, in the midst of the muscles of the thigh (see Aponeurology). It is therefore necessary to open this sheath, and not that of any of the surrounding muscles, in order to expose the artery. Collateral branches. The collateral branches of the femoral are, the super- ficial epigastric artery, the two external pudic arteries, a great number of mus- cular branches, and the deep femoral artery. The Superficial Epigastric Artery. The superficial epigastric or subcutaneous abdominal artery (cut across at b,fig. 214.) is a very small, but remarkably constant, branch, which arises from the front of the femoral, and sometimes from the external pudic, immediately below the crural arch, passes vertically upwards, between the integuments and the superficial fascia, gives some branches to the inguinal lymphatic glands, and terminates in the skin, near the umbilicus (arteria ad cutem abdominis. Haller). The External Pudic Arteries. The external pudic or genital arteries, also named scrotal, in the male, and vulvar in the female, arise from the inner side of the femoral; they are two in number (c c, fig. 214.), and are named the superior or subcutaneous, and the inferior or subaponeurotic. The superior or subcutaneous arises immediately below the crural arch, passes transversely inwards in the subcutaneous ceUular tissue, and divides into two branches; a superior, which passes to the pubic eminence, and an inferior, which is distributed to the skin of the penis and scrotum in the male, and to the corresponding external labium in the female. I have seen the dorsal artery of the penis arise from this vessel. The inferior or subaponeurotic branch arises a little below the preceding, and sometimes even from the deep femoral; it passes transversely inwards, crosses the femoral vein at right angles immediately below the point where it IS joined by the saphenous vein ; so that this artery is generaUy received in the loop described by the upper end of the saphenous vein: it soon perforates the tascia and becomes subcutaneous, and then ramifies in the scrotum in the male, and in the external labium in the female. The anastomoses of the su- perior and inferior external pudics, both with each other and with those of the opposite side, are so free and large, that when one of them is cut across, it becomes necessary to tie both of the cut ends of the vessel. These arteries are remarkable on account of their relations with hernial tumours.