NEUROLOGY. 948 behind by the medulla oblongata; and it is continuous, laterally, with the middle peduncles of the cerebellum (m), forming -with them but one system of fibres; its lateral boundaries are, therefore, altogether artificial. The size of the pons, which is very considerable in the human subject, is always in relation with the developement of the lateral lobes of the cerebellum ; comparative anatomy, embrj-ology, and the study of malformations completely establish this fact. * Its inferior surface is covered by the pia mater, which can be easily stripped off; it rests upon the anterior part of the basilar groove, and slopes backwards and downwards like the inclined plane of that groove. It presents along the median line a slight furrow, which is broader in front than behind, and corresponds to the basilar artery : this groove apj>ears as if it were caused by the presence of the artery; nevertheless, I must say, that not unfrequently the basilar artery is found to deviate to one side or the other, or to be more or less tortuous, and yet that the median groove is as distinctly marked as usual. I believe there is good ground for entertaining the opinion, that this groove results from the prominence of the anterior pyramids, which raise up the sur- face of the pons on each side of the median line. The inferior surface of the pons presents certain transverse bundles of fibres, which appear to cross each other at very acute angles, and which, ac- cording to Rolando, may be divided into three sets: superior bundles, which turn upwards, to constitute the upper part of the middle peduncles of the cerebellum; inferior bundles, which pass transversely outwards ; and middle bundles, which are directed obliquely downwards and outwards, pass in front of the inferior bundles, and then form the anterior border of the cerebellar peduncles. The origin of the fifth pair of nerves is between the superior and middle sets of fibres. Not unfrequently the middle bundles are not to be seen. It follows, therefore, that the middle peduncles of the cerebellum are merely the transverse fibres of the pons condensed and twisted upon them- selves. The pons and these peduncles of the cerebellum constitute one and the same system of fibres. We might therefore, with Gall, designate the pons and the middle peduncles of the cerebellum as the commissure of ike cerebellum, or corpus callosum of the cerebellum. 77ie Peduncles of the Cerebrum. The peduncles of the cerebrum (fffig. 276.), sometimes regarded as pro- longations of the cerebrum to the medulla oblongata {processus cerebri ad me- dullam oblongatam, ad pontem Varolii), sometimes as the arms, legs, or thighs of the cerebrum (brachia, crura, femora, cerebri'), and by others as prolong- ations of the medulla towards the cerebrum (processus medulla oblongata ad cerebrum), are two thick, white, fasciculated columns, which anse from the anterior angles of the pons Varolii, and enter the substance of the cerebrum, after a course of about six lines. They are cylindrical, and in contact with each other as they emerge from the pons, and they gradually increase in size, and become flattened as they advance forwards, upwards, and outwards. The optic tracts (s 2, Jig. 2/2.) circumscribe and bound them in front. Their size corresponds to that of the cerebral hemispheres. They are ol eoual dimensions in a well formed brain, but they are liable to become atro- 5S wUhE corresponding hemisphere, as I have had frequent occasion ^^EaSh of them is free below, and on its outer and inner side, but is blended who had no cerebellu.n, I found that the pons was also wanting.