ANGEIOLOGY. 752 leolus, and is distributed upon it, on the inner side of the tarsus, as far as the internal plantar region, -where it anastomoses with the branches of the internal plantar artery. The external malleolar or articular artery (V), larger than the preceding, varies much in its origin. Thus it sometimes arises under the dorsal ligament of the tarsus, opposite the internal malleolar; it often arises from the tibial, about two or three inches above the annular ligament. Sometimes it is de- rived from the posterior peroneal artery, and perforates the lower part of the interosseous ligament. Lastly, and most commonly, it arises by two roots ; one of which is small, but variable in size, and is derived from the peroneal, whilst the other is larger, and is given off from the anterior tibial. These differences of origin affect the course of the artery. When it arises under the ligament of the tarsus, it passes transversely outwards, and then turns in front of the external malleolus to run forwards, resting upon the tarsus. It receives the branch from the posterior peroneal at the point where it changes its direction. In those cases where it arises higher, it passes ob- liquely downwards, in front of the external malleolus, and then upon the outer side of the astragalus. In all cases, the external malleolar artery runs forwards on the outer side of the cuboid bone, and forms an anastomotic arch with the dorsal artery of the tarsus. It is in contact with the bones throughout its course, and is crossed by the tendon of the extensor longus digitorum : it gives off mal- leolar branches, which ramify upon the outer surface of the external malleolus ; very large articular branches, which dip into the tibio-tarsal articulation; and one, which I would specially notice, that enters the deep fossa between the astragalus and OS calcis ; and, lastly, external calcaneal branches, which pass under the tendons of the peroneus longus and peroneus brevis, and ramify upon the outer side of the os calcis, where they terminate by anastomosing with the peroneal artery, and with some branches of the external plantar. Several of these branches are reflected upon the upper surface of the os calcis in front of the tendo Achillis, and anastomose with branches from the posterior tibial artery. The Dorsal Artery of the Foot. The dorsal artery of the foot {dorsalispedis; f, fig. 216.) is the continuation of the anterior tibial, which takes this name after emerging from below the dorsal annular ligament of the tarsus ; it terminates in the sole of the foot, by becoming continuous with the plantar arch. Not unfrequently this artery arises by two roots, one of them being formed by the anterior tibial, which is much smaller than usual, and is, as it were, exhausted near the ankle, and the other by the peroneal, which is then very large, and perforates the lower part of the interosseous ligament. In a few rare cases the anterior tibial is entirely wanting, and is represented by some small perforating branches from the pos- terior tibial or the peroneal; the dorsal artery of the foot is then wholly derived from the peroneal. .... The size of the dorsal artery of the foot is also subject to variety; it gene- rallv bears a direct proportion to that of the anterior tibial, which I have seen as large as the posterior tibial and peroneal arteries together, whilst it has an inverse ratio to that of the two last mentioned vessels combined. The dorsal artery runs horizontally and directly forwards upon the dorsum of the foot, as far as the posterior extremity of the first interosseous space, at which point it bends downwards at a right angle, perforates that space like a perforating artery, and terminates by becoming continuous with the plantar ^'^The direction of the dorsal portion of this artery is marked by a line ex- tending from the middle of the tibio-tarsal articulation to the posterior ex- tremitv of the first interosseous space. ' Sf^^ It lies in contact with the bones of the tarsus in -^icj Positio" it is retained by a layer of fibrous tissue. It is separated from the ^km by the