ANGEIOLOGY, which this vein presents, I shall point out one in which the two frontal veins are united into a single trunk, which hifurcates above the root of the nose Ihese veins do not exactly follow the course of the frontal arteries; they de- scend from the vertex, where, by their numerous anastomoses, either with each other or with the temporal veins, they form a venous plexus large enough to cover the whole frontal region. They open into a transverse venous arch, having Its concavity directed downwards ; it is sometimes tortuous : it is situ- ated at the root of the nose, and is named the nasal arch (6). This arch is also joined by the supra-orbital vein, a deep-seated vessel (indicated by the dotted lines c), which runs transversely along the upper part of the orbit, re- ceives the superior internal palpebral'vein, and opens into the extremity of the arch, on the outer side of the frontal vein: the ophthahiic vein also termi- nates in the nasal arch of the vein, between which and the cavernous sinus it establishes a free communication. Thus the upper parts of the face, more particularly the eye and its appendages, are intimately connected with the brain through the medium of the veins as well as of the arteries. Moreover, the dorsal veins of the nose, which run on each side of the ridge of that organ, open into the concavity of the nasal arch. The angular veins are given off from the right and left extremities of the nasal arch, and may be regarded as the continuations of the frontal veins ; like the corresponding arteries, each of them {d) is situated in the furrow between the nose and the cheek. The inferior palpebral vein and the vein of the lachrymal sac and nasal duct enter the outer side of each angular vein, which is joined on its inner side by the veins of the corresponding ala of the nose. The veins of the ala nasi form a very dense network between the cartilage and the skin, and also between the cartilage and the mucous membrane: from these networks, two branches are given off; a superior, which runs along the convex border; and an inferior, which runs along the lower border of the inferior lateral cartilage, or the cartilage of the ala. These two branches unite into a very large common trunk, which passes upwards, often very ob- liquely, into the angiilar vein. The facial vein (e) commences in the angular vein, at the point where the latter is joined by the veins of the nose ; it proceeds very obliquely downwards and outwards, passes under the great zygomatic muscle, reaches and then runs along the anterior border of the masseter, crosses at right angles over the base of the jaw, is received into a groove in the submaxillary gland, and terminates in several different modes. Most commonly it unites with the lingual to form a common trunk, which enters the internal jugular; it is into this common trunk of the facial and lingual veins that the superior thyroid and the pharyngeal vein, and the com- mon trunk of the temporal and internal maxillary veins sometimes open. In other cases the facial vein passes obliquely across the outer surface of the sterno-mastoideus, and enters at some point of the external jugular vein. I have seen it directly continuous with the anterior jugular, also with the ex- ternal jugular of the same or of the opposite side, or it may enter the con- vexity of an arch of communication between the external and anterior jugular veins. Collateral branches. During its course the facial vein is joined on its outer side by the alveolar venous trunk, which is very large, and may be regarded as the deep branch of origin of the facial vein, which, in fact, becomes much larger, sometimes even twice as large after its reception. This alveolar trunk commences in a very remarkable venous plexus, named the alveolar plexus, in which the alveolar veins properly so called, together with the infra-orbital, su- perior palatine, vidian, and spheno-palatine veins terminate, and which commu- nicates with the pterygoid plexus. All these veins accompany the branches of the internal maxillar/ artery having the same names. From the alveolar plexus the alveolar trunk runs forwards and downwards below the malar bone, and unites obliquely with the facial vein. The facial is also joined on