NEUROLOGY. 1036 zontally inwards between the obliquus major and the complexus, perforates this last muscle m the outer side of its digastric portion (the biventer cervicis) then changes its direction, and turns outwards between the complexus and the trapezius through which latter it passes to become subcutaneous and accompanv the occipital artery ; it is here called the great occipital nerve (occipitaUs m^or; a, fig. 285.). Hitherto cylindrical, this nerve on becoming subcutaneous IS flattened and increased in width, and then passing upwards spreads out into a considerable number of diverging branches, internal, middle, and external, which cover the occipital region with their ramifications, and may be traced even to the parietal region: the internal branches are the shortest and are successively lost in the skin of the occipital region. It supplies several branches, as follows : — -Some anastomotic branches to the first and third cervical nerves. Opposite the lower border of the obliquus major, it gives off a considerable muscular branch (w,fig. 300.), which is distributed to that muscle, to the com- plexus, and especially to the splenius (w, fig. 298.) ; the branches to the splenius are of great size, and spread upon its deep surface into diverging twigs, which anastomose both with each other, and with branches derived from the third cervical nerve. During its passage between the obliquus major and the complexus, and be- tween the last-named muscle and the trapezius, the posterior branch of the second cervical nerve supplies these different muscles with a rather large number of nervous twigs. Its subcutaneous portion is distributed exclusively to the hairy scalp. The occipitalis muscle, upon which it ramifies, does not receive any branch from it: as we shall elsewhere show, this muscle is supplied by the auricular branch of the facial nerve. The subdivisions of the subcutaneous portion of the second cervical nerve may be traced into the hair follicles, and several of its external branches anastomose with the mastoid branch of the anterior cervical plexus. 77*6 Posterior Branch of the Third Cervical Nerve. The posterior branch of the third cervical nerve, smaller than that of the second, but much larger than that of the fourth nerve, and partially intended for the occipital region, emerges between the transverse process of the atlas and that of the third cervical vertebra, and consequently further outwards than the posterior branches of the first and second nerves ; it is immediately curved, and passes transversely inwards (t, fig. 300.) between the complexus and the semi-spinalis colli. Having reached the inner border of the complexus, it divides into two cutaneous branches —an ascending or occipital, which per- forates the innermost fibres of the complexus, passes vertically upwards upon one side of the median line, applied to the under surface of the skin, and ra- mifies upon the occipital region, near the median line, and to the inner side of the branch from the second cervical nerve ; and a horizontal or cervical branch, which perforates the aponeurosis of the trapezius between the complexus and the posterior cervical ligament, and passes horizontally outwards beneath the skin, to which it adheres, and in the substance of which it terminates. As the posterior branch of the third cervical nerve emerges from the pos- terior intervertebral foramen, it gives off an ascending branch, which forms an anastomotic arch with the descending branch of the second nerve: the succession of arches formed by the anastomoses of the first, second, and third nerves, and the very numerous branches which arise from their convexities, constitute a plexus which may be called the posterior cervical plcxits: it is situated beneath the complexus, near its external attachments, and it supplies both that muscle and the splenius. The direct anastomoses between the pos- terior branches of the three superior cervical nerves appear to me to be some- times wanting; but then the branches given off from them still exist, and form a plexus between the splenius and the complexus.