THE BUCCO-LABIAL NERVE. 1119 and the terminal branches, namely, the lingual and the inferior dental; the otic ganglion, described by Arnold, is connected with this nerve.* The Collateral Brandies of the Inferior Maxillary Nerve. The Deep Temporal Nerve. The first external branch, or the deep temporal nerve, arises from the outer side of the inferior maxillary nerve, passes horizontaUy outwards and forwards between the roof of the zygomatic fossa, with which it is in contact, and the external pterygoid muscle. Having arrived at the ridge which separates the temporal from the zygomatic fossa, it anastomoses with several temporal branches derived from the buccal and masseteric nerves, and forms a sort of plexus with them. The branches which emerge from this plexus ascend vertically in the deep layers of the temporal muscle, in which most of them terminate. Some twigs anastomose with the temporal filaments derived from the lachrymal branch of the ophthalmic nerve, and from the orbital branch of the superior maxillary nerve.f One and sometimes two filaments perforate the temporal fascia, about a finger's breadth above the zygomatic arch, and then ascend beneath the skin to anastomose with the auriculo-temporal and the facial nerves.J The Masseteric Nerve. The second external branch, or the masseteric nerve, arises from the same point as the last nerve, and greatly exceeds it in size; it comes off at an acute angle, passes horizontally backwards and outwards in contact with the roof of the zygomatic fossa, between it and the external pterygoid muscle ; it is then reflected downwards over the upper part of that muscle to gain the sigmoid notch of the lower jaw upon which it is again reflected, and then descends vertically, between the ramus of the jaw and the masseter, or rather in the substance of the deep layers of that muscle, down to the insertion of which it may be traced. During its course along the upper wall of the zygomatic fossa, the masseteric nerve gives off a small deep temporal branch which runs along the periosteum, passes into the temporal fossa, and sends off an articular branch to the temporo-maxillary articulation. The Buccal or Bucco-Labial Nerve. The third exierno?branch (^,fig. 300.), the buccalor rather the bucco-labialnerve (^Chaiiss.), is very remarkable on account of its size and the extent of its dis- tribution, which gives it some resemblance to the corresponding portion of the facial nerve. It arises from the outer side of the inferior maxillary nerve, by one, two, and sometimes three roots which perforate the external pterygoid, and join together as they emerge from that muscle; from thence it runs downwards between the coronoid process of the lower jaw and the tuberosity of the upper jaw, gives several twigs to the external pterygoid muscle, and also some branches to the temporal muscle, of which one ascends and anastomoses with the deep temporal nerve, whilst another descends and is distributed to the same muscle near its insertion into the coronoid process ; the buccal nerve itself sometimes perforates the lowest part of the insertion of the temporal muscle, and having reached the back part of the buccinator, it expands into a great number of diverging branches, like the facial nerve. The ascending branches are distributed to the skin of the malar and buccal • We someames find a corannunicating filament between the superior and inferior raaxiUarv nerves immediately before they enter their respective foramina "laxiiiary nerve'"!'"*' ^""'^'^ " between the branches of the tliree divisions of the fifth t [This cutaneous filament is one of the temporal filaments of the orbital branch of thc^ ... pcrior maxillary nerve. {FMis\i Demonstrations; see note, p.lI14.)] "rancn ol the su- voL. ir.