661 THE ARTERIES. A great number of the arteries pursue a very distinctly tortuous course, which, as Haller remarks, is preserved by the surrounding cellular tissue, and which'is connected with certain particular conditions of the organs to which they are distributed. Thus, we meet with very tortuous arteries in parts which are alternately subject to considerable dilatation and contraction; as, for example, the coronary arteries of the heart and of the lips. Again, the serpentine course of an artery, by increasing its length in a given space, adds to the extent of surface from which collateral branches may arise. The curvatures of the internal maxillary and of the ophthalmic arteries evi- dently have this advantage; and it is highly probable, that the arch of the aorta may serve a similar purpose. The arteries are tortuous in certain parts also, in which this arrangement would seem to diminish the force and rapidity of the current of blood ; it cannot fail to be perceived that such is the intention of the curvatures described by the internal carotid and the vertebral arteries. Bichat, it is true, has ob- jected to this, that, in a system of communicating and permanently distended canals, the curvature can have no influence upon the rapidity of the fluid cir- culating through them. But I would answer, that this principle, though true in reference to a system of inextensible tubes, is not so when applied to a sys- tem of dilatable canals like the arteries. In the latter case, in fact, part of the momentum acts against the curvature itself, and straightens it in a certain degree ; and, in this way, there is a loss of some portion of the original mo- mentum. In some arteries this tortuous condition is acquired, in others it results from the progress of age. It proceeds from elongation of the arteries, which is itself produced in the following manner: — At each ventricular systole, the arteries tend to become elongated as well as dilated. In the aged, and espe- cially in those whose heart is very powerful, this tendency to become elon- gated produces an actual and permanent elongation, as may be seen in the abdominal aoi-ta and in the common iliac, the humeral, and the radial ar- teries, which in almost all old subjects present alternate curvatures, that are never met with in the infant and the adult. We may also consider as ac- quired the tortuous condition assumed by collateral arterial branches, after the obhteration of the main trunk. Anastomoses of the Arteries. During their course, the arteries communicate with each other by certain branches, which sometimes unite two different trunks, and sometimes form a connection between two parts of the same trunk. This mode of communication is called anastomosis (ava, by, and ardfia, a mouth). There are several kinds of anastomoses. Anastomosis by inosculation, or by loops, in which two vessels running in opposite directions open into each other by their extremities and form a loop. ' ' • ■ ' • • / Anastomosis by transverse eommunication, as when two parallel trunks are united by means of a branch at right angles to their own direction : for ex- ample, the anterior communicating artery of the brain. Anastomosis by convergence, in which two arterial branches unite at an acute angle to form a larger artery, as in the union of the vertebral arteries to form the basilar trunk. By means of the anastomosis by inosculation or by loops, which is the most common method of communication, uninterrupted collateral channels are established along the great arterial trunks, the place of which they may even supply. The existence of these anastomoses, and the power possessed by arteries of becoming enlarged, to an almost indefinite extent, originated the bold idea of attempting to tie even the largest arterial trunks. Anastomoses by inosculation are sometimes useful in regulating the distri- c 4