THE SUPRA-CLAVICULAR NERVES. 1043 D D 3 the concavity turned upwards upon the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid, ascends almost vertically, parallel to the great occipital nerve and to the pos- terior border of the sterno-mastoid, crosses the posterior occipital attachments of that muscle, continues to ascend upon the occipital region, and then upon the parietal region, and may be traced as far as opposite the anterior border of the parietal bone. During this course it is situated between the splenius and occipitalis muscles and epicranial aponeurosis on the one hand, and the skin on the other. . This nerve gives off in the occipital region:—some external branches, which are distributed to the skin, and anastomose with a filament of the auricular nerve, but none of them pass to the auricle. The term occipito-auricular (Chauss.) is therefore not applicable to it; it should rather be called the ex- ternal occipital (occipitalis minor, b) *, to distinguish it from the internal occi- pital, (occipitalis major, a), given off by the posterior branch of the second cervical nerve. It also supplies some internal branches, which anastomose several times with the internal occipital nerve, and ai-e distributed to the skin. It gives no filament to the occipitalis muscle, nor does it anastomose with the facial nerve. The mastoid or external occipital nerve is essentially a cu- taneous nerve. We sometimes find a small supplementary branch between the great au- ricular and external occipital nerves, which runs parallel to them, and may be called the small mastoid nerve (c). TTie Superficial Descending Branches. Tile Supra-clavicular Nerves. The supra-clavicular nerves (e,fig.2%5.; u,fig. 298.). The terminating branches of the cervical plexus are two in number: one internal, or the supra-clavi- cular nerve, properly so called ; the other external, or the acromial nerve; they come off from the plexus at the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid, descend perpendicularly towards the clavicle, and divide into several branches, which again subdivide before reaching that bone, so that they cover the supra- clavicular triangle with their diverging filaments. All these branches cross over the clavicle at almost regular intervals, and are lost upon the upper and anterior part of the thorax. The innermost or sternal branches cross very obliquely over the external jugular vein, then over the clavicular and sternal attachments of the sterno- mastoid, and ramify in the skin, where they may be traced as far as the median line. The external or acromial branches pass obliquely over the extenial surface of the trapezius, cross the outer end of the clavicle, and are distributed to the skin over the acromion and the spine of the scapula, I have followed some filaments over the top of the shoulder as far as the lower borders of the pectoralis major. The intermediate or clavicular branches cross the clavicle at right angles, are in contact with the skiu upon the upper part of the thorax, and may be traced to within a short distance of the nipple.f All these branches lie at first beneath the platysma, and then become sub- cutaneous. A layer of fascia and the omo-hyoid muscle are interposed be- » The name mastoid branch is bad, for this branch has no relation with the mastoid process. t Not unfrequently the supra-clavicular nerve passes through a foramen in the clavicle, at the junction of the external third with the internal two thirds of that bone ; sometimes, instead of a bon^ canal, there is a tendinous arch upon the posterior border of the bone. In this case theclavicular branches are not scattered, but closely aggregated together; the internal branches then pass horizontally inwards between the clavicle and the skin as far as the sternum • and I have even seen a small twig enter the attachments of the pectoralis major. The external branches proceed horizontally outwards upon the anterior border of the clavicle as far as tl.p. acromion. ****