848 NEUROLOGY. The hairs. The hairs are filiform productions of the epidermis, generaUv flexible, variable m length, size, and colour, and bearing dififerent names ac- cording to the region on which they are situated.* The surface of the human body, with the exception of the palms of the hands and the soles of the feet, is covered by very fine and short hairs, which torm a light down, as it is named; but the hairs, properly socaUed, are collected upon particular parts of the surface of the body, where they serve some special purpose. Thus, they exist in great abundance upon the cranium, where they are called the hair; on the face, where they form the whiskers and beard; the hairs upon the margins of the eyelids are called the eyelashes; the arched row over each orbit is called the eyebrow; the hairs upon the lips constitute the moustache. On the trunk the hairs are collected, in more or less abundance, around the genital organs : they exist, also, in the axillae of both sexes ; and on the chest, between the breasts, in the male. The hairs present well-marked differences according to sex, age, and the peculiar race to which the individual belongs. The pilous system is most developed in the Caucasian race, and least so in the negro. The hair, eyelashes, and eyebrows exist before birth : before birth, also, the whole body is clothed with a very thick down, which is shed during the first few months afterwards. At the period of puberty, hairs are developed upon the pubic region and in the axillse of both sexes, upon the labia majora of the female, and upon the scrotum and around the anal orifice in the male : the beard also appears in the male, and the anterior aspect of the trunk, and the limbs, are covered with hairs of variable length in difi'erent persons. I should observe that the developement of the hairs is not always in proportion to the personal strength, as is asserted by certain authors, who regard an abundance of hair as an attribute of strength and virility. But, although some men with hairy skins have robust constitutions, a great number are delicate, and are even aifected with tubercular phthisis. In mammalia the hairs upon the posterior or dorsal region of the trunk are more developed than those upon the anterior or abdominal aspect, a proof that they are destined to the quadruped attitude : in some animals, which turn upon their backs to protect themselves, the hairs upon the abdominal surface are most highly developed. The hair of the head may grow to a very considerable length: it has been seen to reach as low down as the middle of the leg, and when thrown around the trunk, sufliciently abundant to cover it like a garment. The length and the direction of the hair upon the head evidently prove that man is destined for the erect posture ; for if he assumed the attitude of a quadruped, it would trail upon the ground, and fall over the face. The hair also presents peculiarities, or differences, in many respects; for example, in direction, some hair being long and smooth, some crisped and woolly ; this latter kind is peculiar to the negro race, and it never grows to a very great length: also in diameter, some hair being excessively fine, and some large and coarse, f It differs again as to quantity, for, in general, the and afterwards become hard, flattened, and firmiy agglutinated together, as in the substance of the nail. These corpuscules are developed, not onTy opposite the matrix of the nail, but be- neath the whole of its attached surface; the nail is thus elongated, and at the same time its thickness is maintained, notwithstanding the flattening of the corpuscules formed at the root as they approach the surface. The thin layer of epidermis, described by Weber, Lauth, and Gurlt, as continued under the whole attached surface of the nail, is nothing more than the soft stratum of growing corpuscules, which pass insensibly into those of the true epidermis. Like the epidermis, the nails consist of keratin.] * The spines of the hedgehog, the bristles of the boar, the hair of horses, the wool of sheep, and the/«r of most mammalia, are different kinds of hair. t [Tlie hair of the head also varies in its/oon ; a section being a more or less flattened ovaj, or even reniform, from the hair being excav-ited along one side. On the face, the hairs are still more flattened.]