NEUROLOGY. 970 surface is marked by deep tortuous furrows (see figs. 276. 282.), called an- Jractuosities, -which occasion an appearance like that of the convolutions of the small intestines, and hence the term convolutions is applied to the eminences resembling folds, by which the anfractuosities are bounded. The Superior or Convex Sdrface of the Brain. A median vertical fissure running from before backwards, called the longi- tudinal fissure, divides the cerebrum into two exactly similar lateral halves, which are improperly called cerebral hemispheres, for each of them resembles the fourth part of an ovoid; but would be more correctly designated the right and left brain, as was done by Galen. * The longitudinal fissure divides the cerebrum in its whole depth, both in front and behind (x y,fig.277. ; also fig. 282.); .lyit in the middle it is interrupted by the corpus callosum (d d). There arft^two brains, as there are two spinal cords and two cerebella. f The - cerebrum is therefore symmetrical, but it is less completely so than the spinal cord; I should even say, that a decided disproportion is very commonly observed between the right and left hemispheres. It does not appear that this want of symmetry exerts that influence upon the intellectual faculties which was imagined by the ingenious Bichat, whose own un- symmetrical brain was in direct contradiction to his doctrine. It is never- theless possible that a want of symmetry, when carried to a certain point, may affect the intellect; in the brains of several idiots their want of symmetry has been very remarkable. I have seen the longitudinal fissure of the brain deviate to the right or left side, at an angle of from 15° to 20° from its usual direction. Each cerebral hemisphere presents three surfaces for our consideration : — An internal surface {fig. 282.), which is flat, vertical, and separated from that of the opposite hemisphere by the falx cerebri; but as the falx does not extend so low as the corpus callosum, it follows that the two hemispheres are in con- tact below, the pia mater, however, intervening between them. In those rare cases of absence of the falx cerebri, the corresponding faces of the two hemi- spheres are in contact with each other throughout their whole extent. I have seen one case in which the falx was imperfect, and the two hemispheres were united. An extei-nal surface, which is convex, and resembles the surface of the fourth part of an ovoid, having its great end directed backwards; it corre- sponds to the concavity formed by the frontal, parietal, and occipital bones. An inferior surface, which forms part of the base of the brain in general, and will be next described. The Inferior Surface or the Base of the Brain. The base of the brain {fig. 276.), admirably described and correctly figured by Soemmerring in a special treatise upon the subject *, presents a great num- ber of objects for our consideration. In order to obtain a perfect knowledge of it, it is advisable to examine it whilst the brain is stiU inclosed in its mem- branes, and placed in the skull cap, with its base uppermost ; and also upon a brain from which the membranes have been removed, and which is placed in the same position but on a flat surface. In the former case, the parts forming the base of the brain are pressed together, and may be studied as a whole ; and in the latter, they are separated and may be examined in detail. It is at its base that the brain is connected with the other parts of the cerebro- * Cliaussier applies the term lobe to the hemispheres, reserving tliat of lobule for the second- ary divisions. t Galen inquires why there should be two brains ; and replies, that it is to insure a more perfect performance of the cerebral functions. I have seen several hemiplogic individuals in whom the whole of one hemisphere was atrophied, but who, notwithstanding, possessed or- dinary intellectual faculties. t De basi Encepliali (Ludwig, Scriptorcs Ncurologici, t, ii.).