1033 APPARENT ORIGIN OF THE NERVES. first cervical nerve slopes a little upwards and outwards, like the cranial veins, which it resembles in this respect. The second nerve is transverse ; the suc- ceeding' nerves slope downwards and outwards, the lowest being the most oblique ; but their obliquity never exceeds the depth of a single vertebra. The proportion between the size of the posterior and anterior roots is as 3 to 1 ; and this difference, which is much greater than is observed m any other region, obtains not only in reference to the filaments taken altogether, but also to each particular filament. The cervical nerves increase rapidly in size from the first to the btth, and then maintain the same size to the eighth. _ _ The first cervical nerve, so well described by Asch, has some peculiarities ; its posterior filaments of origin are much less numerous than the anterior, the spinal accessory of Willis appearing to supply this deficiency ; it is also fre- quently without a ganglion.* Proper characters of the dorsal nerves. Excepting the first, which has all the characters of the cervical nerves, the roots of the dorsal pairs of nerves (9 to 20) present the following peculiarities : — A small number of filaments or roots; so that, with the exception of the sacral, the dorsal are the smallest of all the spinal nerves. Uniformity in the number of the filaments, i. e. in the size of their roots. The dorsal nerves are almost of equal size, the twelfth nerve alone being somewhat longer than the rest. A considerable interval between their roots ; and a want of regularity in this interval. Frequently a portion of the spinal cord from eight to ten lines in length gives origin to only a small pair of nerves. A more marked slenderness of the filaments of origin than in any other region. The slight disproportion between their anterior and posterior roots when compared filament for filament. The direction of their ?oots, which remain in contact with the cord for some distance, and then leave it; this circumstance is calculated to give rise to errors concerning the precise situation of their origin. The length of their course within the spinal canal; this length is equal to the height of at least two vertebrae. Proper characters of the lumbar and sacral nerves. The roots of these nerves form the cauda equina; their characters are — the great number of their filaments of origin, which exceeds those of the dorsal and even those of the cervical nerves. The extreme closeness of these filaments, which form an uninterrupted series. The proportion between the filaments of the anterior and those of the posterior roots, which is as 2 to 1. The uniformity in point of size between the two sets of filaments, the anterior filaments, taken individually, being as large as the posterior. The continuance of the origin of the posterior roots to take place at the groove, whilst the anterior approach nearer and nearer to the median line towards the lower part of the cord, and almost touch those of the opposite side. The concurrence of both the anterior and posterior roots in the formation of the spinal ganglia. The almost vertical direction of the roots; a character common to both the lumbar and sacral pairs of nerves. The singular length of their course before they emerge from the spinal canal, f » According to the principlcB of classification wliich I liave already stated, I sliould range tlie spinal accessory nerve among tlie cervical nerves, because it originates from the cervical portion of the spinal cord : in classing it among the cranial nerves 1 yield to general usage. t [Lastly, the situation of tlie gimglia of the sacral nerves within the sacral canal, and of the lowest of them within the cavity of the dura mater.]