NEUKOLOGY. 978 Tlie Convolutions and Anfractuosities of the Cerebrum. The entire surface of the cerebrum is marked by a great number of deep jinding furrows, which divide it into as many oblong eminences, turned in different directions, and themselves subdivided by secondary furrows. These emmences have some resemblance to the convolutions of the smaU intestine and have been named, on this account, convolutions, gyri, meandri, process^ enteroidei. The furrows by which they are separated are caUed anfractuosities or sulci. A more accurate notion of the general character of these convolutions and anfractuosities may be obtained by supposing a bladder to be expanded round a compact central mass at a certain distance from it, and in this condition too large to be contained within the cranium ; and then, that by means of threads proceeding from different points of the centre, the corresponding parts of the bladder are drawn inwards, so that it is folded upon itself, and can now be contained within the cranial cavity. The various winding folds and furrows produced in the walls of the bladder by drawing them from above and from all sides towards the centre, will give some idea of the arrangement of the surface of the cerebrum. Some of the convolutions and anfractuosities are constant, because their forms are determined by those of the central mass; others are subject to variety, and seem to depend upon no determinate cause: these varieties occur not only in different brains, but also in the two hemispheres of the same brain. In this respect the human brain differs from that of the lower animals, in which the cerebral convolutions present much less variety, though they are not so constant as Vicq d'Azyr has stated. The human brain is distinguished from the brains of the lower animals, not only by its size and weight, but also by the number and size of its convolutions. Tiedemann has given excellent representations of the progressive diminution of the cerebral convolutions (which is accompanied by a diminution of the cerebellum) from the apes to the rodentia and edentata.* In the human subject, as in the series of lower animals, the developement of the convolutions has always appeared to me to be directly proportioned to the developement of the entire brain. In this point of view, as in many others, the human foetus presents a similar structure to that found in the lower animals. The furrows or anfractuosities in the brain of the human foetus at the fifth month are neither deeper nor more numerous than those in the brain of the rabbit; and it is important to study these primitive furrows, because they correspond to certain anfractu- osities which ultimately regulate the whole system of convolutions. Thus, at the fifth month, the great anfractuosity, which is called the fissure of Sylvius, exists, but its borders are apart from each other; the island of Reil, or the lobule of the corpus striatum, is found upon the surface of the brain, and there is a longitudinal furrow at the lower and back part of the internal surface of each hemisphere—it corresponds to the occipital prolongation or posterior cornu of the lateral ventricle; there is also a furrow above the corpus callo- sum ; and, lastly, the furrow of the olfactory nerve is visible. At birth, all the convolutions exist, but they are not completely developed until about the age of six or seven years. It is impossible to determine the number of the convolutions, for they have no appreciable limits ; and although some of them end between two adjacent ones, it is easy to see that this termination is merely apparent, and that near the point where it seems to take place, the convolution is continued into another without any line of demarcation. The ancient comparison, therefore, between the convolutions of the brain and those of the intestines, not only applies to their direction, but also to their continuity. * [See also Leuret's figures in the work already referred to, in wliich will be f"""!" parative view of tlie number and arrangement of the convolutions of the brain in man anu mammalia]