THE BASE OF THE BRAIN. 975 tenor lobe beiug greyish white, like the grey substance of the brain, and the anterior yeUo-wish grey. K the anterior lobe be pressed between the fingers, a yellowish white pulp escapes from it, very nearly resembling mixed plaster of Paris. An antero- posterior section of the pituitary body shows also that the two lobes are per- fectly distinct, being separated by a fibrous layer. They are provided with a great number of small vessels. It has been stated, but not proved, that the infundibulum contains two canals, one for the anterior, and the other for the posterior lobe. It is extremely rare to find any hard concretions in the pitui- tary body like those met with in the pineal gland. It is perhaps not uninteresting to remark that the pituitary body is most highly developed in fishes, in which animals it forms a true lobe; and that it is proportionally more developed in mammalia, birds, and reptiles, than in the human subject. It is hollow in all the lower animals. It is larger at the fourth, fifth, and sixth months of foetal life than after birth, and contains a cavity which communicates with the third or middle ventricle. I once found a considerable cavity in the pituitary body of an adult. The functions of the pituitary body are enveloped in the greatest obscurity. Its constancy in all vertebrated animals and its great vascularity are sufficient evidence of its importance. It certainly communicates with the third ventricle, but for what purpose ? Does it pour a peculiar fluid into that cavity, or does it absorb a portion of the ventricular fluid ? Whatever may be the use of the communication just alluded to, the pituitary body does not communicate directly with the venous sinuses around it: it is not a lymphatic gland as maintained by Monro ; nor is it a nervous ganglion of the great sympathetic, as some have recently conjectured, because they fancied they saw some very fine nervous filaments anastomosing upon it. The branches of the fifth and sixth nerves, which Litre and Lieutaud say they have seen penetrating this body, have not been demonstrated. The Anterior Part of the Floor of the Third Ventricle. The anterior part {m,fig. 282.) of the floor of the third t)en<rjc?e, which cannot be well seen until the commissure of the optic nerves is turned backwards, forms an inclined plane directed downwards and backwards. It consists of a fibrous layer which is continuous with the neurilemma of the optic nerves; and of a very thin, semi-transparent, but very strong corneous layer (lamina cinerea), from which prolongations are given oS to the upper surface of the optic commissure, and continued upon the optic nerves : these prolongations might be called the greij roots of the optic nerves. On dividing this horny layer, the third ventricle (Z) is laid open; and it is seen that this layer forms a part of the general system of grey substance, which, on the one hand, is prolonged upon the lateral wall of the third ventricle and surrounds the anterior pillars of the fornix, and on the other is continuous with the tuber cinereum, above the optic commissure. The Reflected Portion of the Corpus Callosum. In front of the anterior part of the floor of the third ventricle is a transverse ■white mass, which is nothing more than the fore part (e to w) of the reflected corpus caUosum. Termmating at this cross tract are two white fasciculi, whicl commence on each side at the point where the corresponding fissure of Sylvius meets the great transverse fissure of the brain ; they then pass inwards and forwards, along the outside of the optic tracts, form the lateral boundaries of the anterior part of the floor of the third ventricle, and terminate by becominff apphed to but not blended with each other, behind the reflected portion of the corpus callosum. Vicq d'Azyr has described these bands as the peduncles of tlie corpus caUosum. •' VOL. II. 2