959 THE FOURTH VENTRICLE. The Fourth Ventricle. Dissection. Divide tlie median lobe of the cerebellum vertically ; make a vertical section of the pons along the median line ; draw asunder the medulla oblongata from the cerebellum. By means of the first section the anterior wall of the fourth ventricle is exposed, and by the second its posterior wall; by drawing apart the medulla oblongata and cerebellum, the ventricle is reached by its inferior extremity, and its whole depth can be seen. It is important to examine the fourth ventricle in all its aspects. The fourth ventricle (v to y, fig. 282.) is that rhomboidal cavity situated between the medulla oblongata and isthmus of the eneephalon (q n), which forms its anterior wall, and the cerebellum (w), which constitutes its posterior wall. The old anatomists followed Galen in calling it the ventricle of the cere- bellum. Tiedemann speaks of it as the first ventricle, because it is developed be- fore the other ventricles, and is constant in all mammalia. The fourth ventricle terminates in a point below, expands considerably in the middle, and is again contracted at its upper part, where it becomes continu- ous with the third ventricle. We shall consider separately its anterior and posterior walls. The anterior or inferior wall is formed by the posterior surface of the me- dulla oblongata {see fig. 271.) and that part of the upper surface of the isthmus of the eneephalon which corresponds to the pons. In shape it resembles a lozenge or diamond, truncated at its upper point; the upper borders of the lozenge being represented by the superior peduncles of the cerebellum (r to g) and the lower by the restLform bodies (e) : the posterior surface of the rein- forcing fasciculi (faisceaux innomines) of the medulla oblongata constitutes this anterior wall, which is lined by a dense and easily separable membrane. The posterior or superior wall represents a vaulted roof, which is formed above by the superior peduncles of the cerebellum (r to g) and the valve of Vieussens 271.; l,fig.21b.; w, ^5'. 282.), lower down by the cerebellum (w), and below by a fibrous membrane, continuous with the neurilemma of the spinal cord. Opposite the middle, i. e. the broadest, part of this posterior wall (see fig. 275.) are situated three mammillary projections — one median and two lateral: the first (b, the uvula) is the anterior segment of the median lobe of the cerebellum; the other two (the amygdalse) are formed by the innermost laminae of the lo- bule of the medulla oblongata (cut away at/). These latter are not bathed in the fluid of the ventricle, but are separated from it by the fibrous membrane lining that cavity. The median mammillary projection (6), named by Malacarne and Chaussier the laminated tubercle of the fourth ventricle, resembles a moveable valve. It is attached to the cerebellum by two white pedicles, which pass outwards and backwards upon the lateral processes of the crucial eminence formed by the inferior vermis. Connected to its anterior extremity (the nodulus, a) are seen two broad folds (semilunar folds, e), which arise from it, one on each side, and become continuous with the roots of the corresponding sub-peduncular lobules or flocculi ((/). These folds, which are quite distinct from the valvulse Tarini, are extremely thm and semi-transparent; their convex borders adhere to the back part of the fourth ventricle; their concave margins and their two surfaces are free.* The two semUunar folds and the intermediate projection, or the nodule, may compared to the soft palate, the mammillary projection representing the * [These two folds constitute the posterior medullary velum of the cerebellum, the valve of Vieussens formmg the anterior velum.] "cum, uii, vaive 01 t [The terms uvula .ind amygdalae, or tonsils, have, as already noticed, been applied to