THE LACHRYMO-NASAL CANAL. 869 Q 4 The Lachrymal Sac and Nasal Duct, or Lachrymo-nasal Canal. The lachnrmal sac and nasal duct constitute a single canal, -which extends from the upper part of the lachrymal groove to the inferior meatus of the cor- responding nasal fossa. „ , , , i i i,- i. The lachrmnal sac (?«), that portion of the lachrymo-nasal canal which oc- cupies the lachrymal groove, represents the half of a cylinder terminating above in a cul-de-sac. It is buried, so to speak, in the substance of the inner wall of the orbit, immediately behind the margin of that cavity, and is in relation with the inner angle of the eyelids, the caruncula lachrymalis, the adipose tissue of the orbit, and the tendon of the orbicularis muscle. The last named relation is one of the most important points in the anatomy of the lachrymal sac. If a circular incision be made through the eyelids from their outer angle along their adherent borders, and the lids be then turned inwards, by then carefully dissecting the tendon of the orbicularis, it will be found that that tendon di- vides into three branches ; that the anterior branch, called the straight tendon, is inserted in front of the ascending process of the superior maxillary bone; that the posterior branch, which is of equal size with the anterior, is inserted into the ridge upon the os unguis, behind the lachrymal groove; that the middle branch ascends to be attached to the upper part of the lachrymal groove; and, lastly, that the lower part of the tendon gives off a fibrous expansion, which forms the outer side of the lachrymal sac, and which may be regarded as a fourth tendinous expansion. The muscle of Horner lies upon the posterior of these tendons, and must be regarded as a portion of the orbicularis itself. The tendon of the orbicularis palpebrarum corresponds to the upper part of the lachrymal sac, only its cul-de-sac projecting above the tendon. The great- est part of the sac is therefore situated below it. The infernal surface of the lachrymal sac presents the ordinary appearance of all canals lined by mucous membrane: a considerable quantity of mucus is often found in it. At the anterior part of its external wall, and at about an equal distance from the top and bottom, are the two orifices of the lachrymal canals; above, is the narrow cul-de-sac, in which it terminates in that direction; and below, it becomes continuous with the nasal duct: in this place there is rather frequently found a semilunar, sometimes even a circular valve ; this is the kind of diaphragm spoken of by Zinn, but the existence of which was denied by Morgagni. Haller says that he only met with it once. The lachrymal sac consists of a partly bony and partly fibrous canal, lined by a mucous membrane. The bony portion of this canal is formed by the groove upon the ascending process of the superior maxillary bone and upon the os unguis ; the last mentioned bone, which is thin and pierced with foramina, may le easily perforated; and hence the facility of making an artificial passage for the tears. The lachrymal sac is opposite to the middle meatus of the cor- responding nasal fossa. The. fibrous portion forms the external flattened wall of this canal; it is very strong and unyielding, unless to long continued extension. The slight muscular layer, described as the muscle of Horner, may be regarded as belonging to the lachrymal sac: this muscle is itself covered by a layer of fibrous tissue. The lining mucous membrane of the lachrymal sac is reddish, and as it were pulpy, and closely resembles the pituitary membrane *; from its.close attach- ment to the periosteum of the waUs of the canal it might be called a fibro- mucous membrane. The nasal duct («), which may be said to be formed in the outer wall of the corresponding nasal fossa, extends from the lachrymal sac to the anterior part ot the inferior meatus of the nose. It is of a cylindrical shape, slightly flat- tened on the sides, and rather narrower at the middle than at its extremities. * See note, p. 370.