643 THE HEART. B 3 anterior surface of the auricular portion has nc anterior furrow along the middle line. , . . -^i .i, • • The posterior surface (fig. 192.) is convex, and is continuous with the inferior surface of the ventricles; it presents a vertical furrow, which is prolonged upwards from the posterior furrow of the ven- Fig m tricles, then deviates to the left side, and forms a curve, the concavity of which is directed towards the right; it corresponds to the septum of the auricles. Immediately to the right of this fur- row, we find the termination of the vena cava inferior (r), and lower down, that of the great coronary vein. The posterior surface of the auricles is turned towards the vertebral column, from which it is separated by the oesophagus and the aorta. The superior surface of the auricular portion forms the highest part of the heart, and is di- rected backwards and towards the right side. It is divided by a furrow, which is convex on the right side, is continuous with the furrow upon the posterior surfece, and, like it, corresponds to the inter-auricular septum. Upon this surface we find the terminations of five different veins: one only of these is to the right of the furrow, viz. that of the vena cava superior (rf, fig. 191.); the other four are on the left of the furrow, and are those of the four pulmonary veins, which are arranged in pairs (c c, fig. 192.), two at the extreme left of the auricles belonging to the left pul- monary veins, and two immediately in the neighbourhood of the posterior furrow belonging to the right pulmonary veins. This surface corresponds to the bifurcation of the trachea, which, as it were, rides upon it. The extremities of the auricles, or the auriculce, are free, and somewhat re- semble the pendulous portion of a dog's ear; hence the term auricles. They are indented like a cock's comb; the right auricula is anterior, the left posterior. The right auricula (c,fig. 191.) is broader and shorter than the left; it is triangular and concave, so as to embrace the aorta, in front of which it pro- jects ; the left auricula (i^ is narrower and longer, it is sinuous, and curved yL twice upon itself like an italic S; it embraces the pulmonary artery, and ter- minates opposite the highest part of the anterior furrow of the ventricles. . The right auricula is continuous with the rest of the corresponding auricle, without any well marked line of separation ; but the left auricula is very dis- tinct from its auricle ; and upon this latter side, the distinction pointed out by Boerhaave, between the sinuses and the auricles properly so called, may be particularly observed : according to him, the sinus constitutes the body of the auricle, and may be regarded as a dilatation of the veins, whilst the auricular appendix forms the proper auricle. The Internal Confohmation of the Heart. The heart is divided internally into four cavities, which are separated from each other by complete or incomplete septa ; two of these cavities belong to the auricles, and two to the ventricles. There are a right ventricle and auricle, and a left ventricle and auricle. The auricle and ventricle of the same side are separated by incomplete septa or valves, and communicate with each other. The cavities of the opposite sides are separated by complete septa, and do not communicate. The heart is therefore, in this latter respect, truly double. The right ventricle and auricle constitute the right heart, also named the caur a sang noir, from the colour of the blood which it contains ; and the pulmonary heart, because it propels the blood into the lungs. The left ventricle and auricle constitute the left heart, called also the cwur a sang rouge, or the aortic heart, because it throws the blood into the aorta.