1098 NEUROLOGY. pathological facts; in a great number of cases of atrophy of one eye, atrophy of the nerve extended, beyond the commissure, to the opposite optic tract. On the other hand, in an equally large number of cases of atrophy of one eye, the disease alFected the optic tract of the same side, so that this would seem to show that there was no decussation. Lastly, in all cases of atrophy of one eye, the disease affects one of the optic tracts in particular, but the other has always appeared to me to be evidently reduced in size. On attempting to determine the point, either by the dissection of optic nerves hardened in alcohol, or unravelled by means of a stream of water, it is seen that these nerves present the following threefold arrangement at the commissure. The external fibres of the commissure do not decussate ; the internal fibres (and these are the most numerous) do decussate ; and the pos- terior fibres are continued from one side to the other, like a commissure. Structure. The optic nerve has a peculiar structure. It does not commence by filaments of origin or distinct cords, like the other nerves, but the optic tracts and the optic commissure are composed of two medullary bands, the fibres of which are parallel and in immediate contact with each other, precisely as in the olfactory nerves, and in the cerebral substance * ; after leaving the commissure, the optic nerves are enveloped in a neurilemmatic sheath, from the internal surface of which certain prolongations or septa are given off which divide the interior of the nerve into longitudinal canals, in which the medul- lary substance is contained. The optic nerve, therefore, does not consist like other nerves of a plexiform group of nervous filaments or cords, but of a collection of canals closely ap- plied to each other, so that it has the appearance of the pith of the rush ; hence, doubtless, the opinion of Eustachius and some other authors who conceived that the optic nerve was traversed by canals; and hence also the error of Reil, who, having taken the structure of the optic nerve as the type of that of all nerves, regarded each nervous cord as containing a central canal, f The Central Extremity of the Common Motor Nerve of the Eye, The apparent origin of the motor nerves of the et/es (3, Jig. 276.), motores oculorum, common oculo-muscular nei-ve, or third pair, have a penicillate cha- racter ; these origins consist of a linear series of very delicate filaments pro- ceeding from the fasciculi found between the peduncles of the cerebrum, in the depression between the pons Varolii and the corpora albicantia. Some fila- ments converge from the cerebral peduncles themselves. J This origin extends about a line and a half, in a direction obliquely inwards and forwards. The internal filaments of origin reach the middle line, so that Varolius and Vieussens believed that the nerves of the right and left sides are continuous, and explained the simultaneous action of the two eyes by this anatomical arrangement. Beal origin. In a brain hardened by alcohol, or still better in the brain of a foetus, the filaments of origin of the nerve (3, Jig. 29 5.) can be easily traced into the substance of the median fasciculi ((/) found between the peduncles of + fn^mosf'fishesf whose faculty of vision is exercised in a less transparent medium than air, the optic nerve is formed by a membrane folded upon itself. In birds of prey, the membrane is Sometimes folded like a fan, sometimes like the leaves of a book. These folds are intended io increase the extent of surface, and to augment the power of vision Rlalpighi first made this obserSn upon the optic nerves of some fishes. Desmoulins who has studied the pomt more carlfullv shomi that it is in relation with the perfection of the sense of sigh The same rtinc salso obseAe^^ the retina: thus in the eagle, the retina presents two three, or four superimposed folLls^ that each luminous ray acts upon sixteen surlaces instead of upon two Tinrt the external filaments often arise from the inner border, and even from the lower surf ce of t e cerebral peduncle, at a certain distance from the inner border ; in this case they do ot nr sefrom^ P»ss through them. The same is doubtless the ™srwi?rthe filTmentrof origin which Ridley and Molinelli state that they have seen coming fromX pons "have never met with this origin from the pons, nor with tlmt »f """O'"e;vc wrch Ma'^aea ne has described as proceeding from the "I'l;^--P*;'°f''>|'. P«±:"'='<= bellum, turning round the border of the pons, and joining the motor oculi nerve.