ANGEIOLOGY. 826 Thus, passing from plexus to plexus, and from gland to gland, the lymphatics ot even the most distant parts arrive at length at the thoracic duct. The lateral lumbar lymphatic glands, viz. those which occupy the spaces he- tween the transverse processes of the lumhar vertehrse, receive the lumbar lymphatics properly so called, -which correspond to the bloodvessels of that name. From these glands, communicating vessels pass to the aortic lumbar glands. The collection of lymphatic vessels and glands, occupying the lumbar region, is called the lumbar lymphatic plexus. The following lymphatic vessels also enter directly into the lumbar glands: —the lymphatics of the tes- ticles in the male ; the lymphatics of the ovaries and Fallopian tubes, and also of the body and upper part of the neck of the uterus, in the female ; and the lymphatics of the kidneys in both sexes. The lymphatics of the testicle. It has been already stated that the lymphatics of the covering of the testicle enter the superficial inguinal glands; those which belong to the gland itself are divided into the superficial and deep. The superficial lymphatics may be injected with the greatest facility, by puncturing the serous membrane covering the tunica albuginea; the tunica vaginalis will then appear as if covered with a coat of silver. (See the beautiful plates of Pa- nizza.) These superficial vessels have numerous communications with the deep-seated lymphatics ; so that both sets are injected at the same time. All the lymphatics from the epididymis and the body of the testicle, which are very numerous and large, ascend with and assist in forming the spermatic cord, pass through the inguinal canal, follow the course of the spermatic vessels, and enter the lumbar lymphatic glands. The lymphatics of the uterus. Having in diseases of the uterus incidental to the puerperal state, frequently detected pus in the lymphatics of the uterus (vide Anat. Path. liv. xiii. pi. 1, 2, 3.), I have been able to trace the exact distribution of these vessels, and would divide them into superficial and deep. The superficial lymphatics are situated immediately under the peritoneum; thedeep lymphatics form several successive layers, which occupy different planes within the substance of the uterus. The lymphatics near the neck of this organ enter the pelvic and sacral lymphatic glands. A certain number of the uterine lymphatics enter a lymphatic gland situated at the internal orifice of the ob- turator canal. All the uterine lymphatics, excepting those near the neck of that organ, pass towards the sides and upper border of the uterus ; some run within the sub- stance of the broad ligaments, and they all reach the upper or tubal angles of the viscus. They are joined by the lymphatics of the ovaries, broad ligaments, and Fallopian tubes; and then ascend in front of the corresponding ovarian artery and veins. Having arrived in front of the lower part of the kidneys, they incline towards the middle line, and enter the glands which are situated in front of the vena cava and aorta. Without having witnessed it, it is impos- sible to form any idea of the enormous size, which the uterine lymphatics may acquire during pregnancy ; several of these vessels, when filled with pus, be- come so dilated, that one would at first sight believe that an abscess had been formed. The lymphatics of the kidneys and suprarenal capsules. These are divided into superficial anddeep. The superficial lymphatics have never been injected directly ; but if a fine injection be thrown into the renal arteries and veins, the injection freed from colouring matter passes into the lymphatics. This was the only way in which Mascagni could inject the superficial lymphatics of the kidney, which he has represented in his beautiful plates. The deep lymphatics, which are very numerous, pass out of the fissure of the kidney, and enter the glands in front of and behind the aorta and vena cava. 1, • • The lymphatics of the suprarenal capsules are remarkable for their size and nimiber i they unite with those of the kidneys, and terminate in the same manner.