1030 NEUROLOGY. cranial nerves: the first consist of all those -which emerge from the inter- Tertebral foramina *; the second, so improperly termed the cerebral or ence- phalic nerves, emerge from the foramina at the base of the cranium. As the line of demarcation which seems at first sight to separate the cranium from the spinal column disappears on an analytical study of the skull and on a comparison of it with the vertebrae, so it will be found that the cranial nerves, notwithstanding their apparent irregularity, approach in many respects to the simplicity and regularity of the spinal nerves. From such a comparison of the cranial with the spinal nerves, we shall derive the general principle, that the situation at which the nerves emerge from their osseous cavities is alto- gether of secondary importance, whilst the fundamental points in their ana- tomy are the exact situation of their central extremitij, and their mode of distribution to their peripheral extremity; we shall also find that the only rational basis of a good classification of the nerves must be derived from the consideration of their origin. In my opinion, the only diflFerence between the cranial and spinal nerves is, that the former arise from the medulla oblongata and its cranial prolongations, whilst the latter arise from the spinal cord below the medulla oblongata. Just as in the osteological division of this work, I have described the vertebra before the cranium, so I shall now describe the spinal before the cranial nerves; this slight modification in the order generally adopted will enable the student to pass from the simple to the complex, and to defer the study of the very complicated nerves of the cranium, until he has been accustomed to the dis- section and examination of other nerves. The following is therefore the order I shall adopt in describing the nerves : the spinal nerves, the cranial nerves, the ganglionic or visceral nerves. THE SPINAL NERVES. Enumeration and Classification. — The central extremities or origins of the spinal nerves — apparent origins—deep or real origins.— The Posterior branches of the spinal nerves— common characters — the posterior branches of the cervical nerves, their common and proper characters — the posterior branches of the dorsal, lumbar, and sacral nerves. — The anterior branches of the spinal nerves — their general arrangement. The number of the spinal nerves, that is to say, of the nerves which pass through the intervertebral foramina, including the sacral foramina, is entirely dependent on the number of the vertebrse.-f There are eight pairs (i to 8, fig. 268.) of cervical nerves, including the sub-occipital; twelve of dorsal (9 to 20) ; five of lumbar (21 to 25); and six of sacral nerves (26 to 31) ; in all, thirty one pairs. They all have certain characters in common ; and there are also characters proper to certain regions, and lastly characters proper to each nerve. We shall proceed to examine, under these three points of view, the central extremity, the course, and the termination of the spinal nerves. The CENTBAi Extremities ok Origins of the Spinal Nerves. The Apparent Origins of the Spinal Nerves. Dissection. The same as that of the spinal cord. Common Characters. There are very close analogies, and only slight differences between the dif- ferent spinal nerves in regard to their origin and course withm the spinal canal ; this circumstance, added to the fact that the same dissection is re- . It will be recollected that we have i"<=lf sixty spinal nerves in certain mammalia, and several hundred m some serpents.