THE INFERIOR THYROID ARTERY. 713 and so on until they are exhausted. The principal arteries of the cerehellum run upon its surface, without passing into the sulci between the laminse, into which they send only very small branches. With some exceptions, the ar- teries are reduced to capUlary dimensions before they enter the nervous sub- stance. The Inferior Thyroid Artery. Dissection. Dissect the muscles of the sub-hyoid region ; follow the branches of the thyroid; trace the divisions of the ascending cervical artery into the grooves upon the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae, and into the vertebral canal. _ The inferior thyroid artery {'i,fig. 204.) arises from the front of the subcla- vian on a plane anterior to the vertebral, which often comes off exactly op- posite to it. It varies remarkably in size and origin, as well as in the branches which it furnishes. It frequently arises from the common carotid, sometimes from the arch of the aorta, between the brachio-cephalic and the left common carotid; at other times from the brachio-cephalic itself. Lastly, it is occa- sionally replaced by the thyroid of Neubauer. It often commences by a common trunk with the'supra-scapular, less fre- quently with the posterior scapular, and rarely with the internal mammary. Its size bears an inverse proportion to that of the superior thyroid of the same side, and depends also on the presence or absence of a third thyroid. It is larger in infancy than at any other period. In certain cases of goitre it becomes prodigiously developed. Sometimes there is merely a trace of its existence, or it is even altogether wanting. Immediately after its origin it passes vertically upwards, then descends so as to describe a curve with its concavity directed downwards ; and again forms another curve with its concavity turned upwards, to reach the lower end of the lateral lobe of the thyroid gland, in the interior of which it ramifies. Relations. Behind, it is in relation with the trachea, the oesophagus, and the vertebral column, being separated from the latter by the praivertebral muscles and the vertebral artery. Its relation with the oesophagus is more marked on the left, than on the right side, and it is impoi-tant to bear this fact in mind in performing the operation of oesophogotomy. In front, its first curve embraces, the common carotid, the internal jugular vein, the pneumo- gastric and the great sympathetic nerves. The middle cervical ganglion, when it exists, rests upon it. The second ctirve embraces the recurrent laryngeal nerve, and is also in relation with the muscles of the sub-hyoid region. It may be remarked that there is one point in the neck where three arteries come into contact, viz. the common carotid, the inferior thyroid, and the ver- tebral. Collateral branches. The inferior thyroid gives off downwards an ceso- phageal branch, some tracheal branches, and a small bronchial twig. I have seen the right bronchial artery derived from it. It also gives off several muscular branches to the scalenus anticus and the praevertebral muscles. The most remarkable of all these is the ascending cervical artery (4), which is of variable size, and is sometimes so large that it may be regarded as resulting from the bifurcation of the inferior thyroid. It passes vertically upwards, in front of the scalenus anticus, then in the groove between it and the rectus capitis anticus major ; to both of which, as well as to the attachments of the levator anguli scapula;, it gives some small branches. The most remarkable of its branches, called the cervico-spinal, enter the grooves by which the cervical nerves emerge, run in front of these nerves, and anastomose with the branches of the vertebral artery. I have seen these branches divide into two ramusculi: the one anterior, very small, which passed in front of the vertebral artery, and emerged upon the sides of the body of the vertebra ; the other posterior, which passed between the corresponding nerve and the artery, entered the spinal canal through the intervertebral foramen, and was distributed to the vertebra),