THE EXTERNAL CEREBRAL PIA MATER. 923 be regarded as the nutritious membrane of the parts that are covered by it. In fact, the arterial vessels divide into an infinite number of branches within this membrane, before they enter the nervous substance, and so also the veins which pass out from the brain and spinal cord unite into small, and then into larger vessels which fonn part of this same network. These vessels are supported by a very'delicate serous cellular tissue: to this is added, in some regions, a certain amount of fibrous tissue, which converts the membrane into a very strong fibrous structure, having all the characters of the neurilemma, or proper investment of the nerves. . The characters of the spinal portion of the pia mater are so distinct from those of the cranial portion, that it will be better to postpone the description of the former until we are treating of the spinal cord, of which it constitutes the proper covering. The Cranial Portion of the Pia Mater. This portion, or the cerebral pia mater, does not merely inclose the brain like the arachnoid, but dips into the sulci or anfractuosities on its external surface, and penetrates into the interior of the ventricles. That portion of the pia mater which invests the brain is called the external pia mater, and that which is continued into the ventricles is denominated the internal pia mater. The internal pia mater cannot be satisfactorily studied until the internal confoi-mation of the brain is understood, and it will therefore be described together with the ventricles. TTie External Cerebral Pia Mater. Dissection. At the base of the brain, the pia mater is naturally separated from the arachnoid by a considerable space, which is occupied by the sub- arachnoid fluid; but it is easy to separate these two membranes everywhere by introducing air or water between them. The arachnoid may be easily dis- tinguished from the pia mater in cases of serous or purulent infiltration into the sub-arachnoid cellular tissue. The external pia mater is subjacent to the arachnoid, and is connected with It by a very delicate serous cellular tissue ; it not only covers the free surface of each convolution, but also dips into the adjacent sulci; it passes down on one side of a sulcus, and then being reflected upon the other, is continued over the free surface of the next convolution, and so on. It follows, therefore, that this part of the pia mater is in contact with itself to a great extent; and also that its superficies is much larger than that of the arachnoid, so that if the brain could be unfolded, as Gall supposed, its surface would be entirely covered by the pia mater. These remarks apply equally to the pia mater of the cerebellum, for every one of the numerous laminae of that organ is covered on each side by a fold of the pia mater. The internal surface of the pia mater is in contact with the brain, and is united to it by innumerable vessels, which penetrate into the substance of that organ. This adhesion, however, is such, that the pia mater can generally be detached without injuring the surface of the brain. I do not think, however, with some pathologists, that the adhesion of this membrane to such a degree that it cannot be removed without injuring the substance of the brain, is any evidence of disease.* For displaying the vessels which pass into the substance of the brain from the pia mater, an asphyxiated subject is very well adapted. But an injected condition of these vessels may be produced by allowing the head of the subject to hang down for some hours. The pia mater will then be not only black from its congested state, but it will be infiltrated with serum ; and if it be de- « In some cases the membranes are so dry tliat the pia mater cannot bo removed without teanng the substance of the brain, even when that organ is perlectly hcalttiy.