THE SPINAL PORTION OF THE ARACHNOID. 919 no ^vhe^e lacerated by the introduction of the director. Occasionally some re- sistance is experienced to the entrance of the director, which may even be completeh/ arrested: this depends upon the fact, that the veins which enter the vena; Galeni interlace in all directions within the canal, so as to form a network, which arrests the instrument. If this be the case, it should be withdrawn, and in order to de- monstrate'the communication, some mercury should be poured into the ex- ternal opening, and by inclining the position of the head, this fluid will flow into the middle ventricle. Air blown into the canal will also enter that ven- tricle, and will pass from it into the lateral ventricles, through the openings, behind the anterior pillars of the fornix. If the fornix be removed, and the velum be exposed, the latter will be seen to be elevated each time that the air is blown in. " The internal orifice of this communicating canal is at the lower part of the velum interpositum; in order to see it, this membrane must be reflected backwards, either with the fornix, the under surface of which it covers, or after it has been separated from that part of the brain. The pineal gland which adheres to the velum is also to be turned back ; below and in front of this gland, is then seen a row of cerebral granulations, arranged in the form of a triangle, having its point turned forwards. The internal orifice of the canal of the arachnoid is at the base of this triangle." Now, if we make the dissection described by Bichat, it is easy to see that there exists at the back part of the brain, below the corpus callosum, a circular or oval opening, leading into a sort of cul-de-sac, which is of variable depth, and is formed by the reflection of the arachnoid around the venae Galeni: it is ^Ccen also that the botioui cf this cul-de-sac may be easily lacerated by a blunt probe, which may then be passed beneath the velum interpositum, as Bichat has pointed out; but it is through an artificial canal. Moreover, if a coloured liquid be injected into the ventricles, it can never be made to escape through this imagined canal of Bichat \ and so, on the other hand, if a liquid be thrown into the orifice of this canal, it never enters the third ventricle: mercury enters only by lacerating the parts ; and the same is the case with air. Ana- logy, which has so often conducted Bichat to beautiful and grand discoveries, has therefore misled him in this particular. Since then the arachnoid canal of Bichat does not exist, it wUl be necessary to determine how the ventricles communicate with the external arachnoid cavity. This question we shall discuss presently.* The Spinal Portion of the Arachnoid. The spinal cord, besides its own proper investment, is covered by a trans- parent membrane of extreme tenuity, and only to be demonstrated properly by raising it with the forceps, or by subjecting it to the mode of preparation ^above described : this is the visceral layer of the spinal portion of the arachnoid. AFig.26B. This visceral layer (b. Jig. 266. AB) forms a membranous sheath, which is much larger than the spinal cord (s) ; hence it is named the loose araclinoid. It is prolonged around the L^^ndle of nerves called the cauda equina, and forms around each u-rve a funnel-shaped sheath, which terminates in a cul- de-sac at the corresponding intervertebral foramen, by being reflected upon the inner surface of the fibrous sheath formed for the nerve by the dura mater {see fig. 266. B). There exists then, between the spinal cord and the visceral portion of the arachnoid, a considerable space (e,fig.266. A B), ,. [^^liich can be best displayed by inflating it, or injecting it with some liquid. This space, as we shall immediately shew, contains a serous fluid. tht rfnnncif"'','?'''' "[ "'^ """^ admitted by Arnold, a recent authority. Perhaps ^-Z^^Z u-T^^"!""^-"' a''--'t<'>""st8 concerning this canal may depend on the fact, that thi ^em i, open ""^""^ ^ ^°""="'"<^« '^l^^^d snbsequently, and at otl er t me!