NEUROLOGY. 1106 The Third Paik, or the Common Motor Nerves of the Eyes. Dissection. All the nei'ves of the orbit should be studied together. The frontal and lachrymal branches of the ophthalmic nerve and the fourth nerve may be first examined ; then the orbital portion of the nasal branch of the ophthalmic, which will afterwards be traced into the nasal fossae; next the common and external motor nerves, and, lastly, the ophthalmic ganglion and the optic nerve. The common motor nerve has already been traced (3, Jigs. 298. 301.) from its origin within the peduncles of the cerebrum to the side of the quadrilateral plate of the sphenoid bone, below and to the outer side of the posterior clinoid process ; in this situation (3, fig. 296.) it is received into a groove formed for it by the dura mater ; it then perforates that membrane, enters the cavernous sinus, passes through it from behind forwards and a little outwards, and before entering the orbit divides into two branches of unequal size, of which one is superior and the other inferior. The following are its relations in the cavernous sinus : it is sitviated in the substance of the external waU of the sinus, to the outer side of the internal carotid artery, above the external motor nerve, and to the inner side of the fourth nerve and of the ophthalmic branch of the fifth; it enters the orbit at the innermost, and consequently the widest part of the sphenoidal fissure. It has no immediate relations with the other nerves that pass through the cavernous sinus, until it is about to enter the orbit; at this point it receives some very delicate filaments from the cavernous plexus of the sympathetic, and an equally small filament from the ophthalmic branch of the fifth nerve ; after which, the external motor nerve • becomes situated below the common motor, whilst the ft-ontal and pathetic nerves cross above it; the nasal branch of the ophthalmic is in contact with its outer side, and then passes between its two divisions. As the common motor nerve passes through the sphenoidal fissure, the tendon of the external rectus forms a fibrous ring around it, which is quite distinct from the ring belonging to the optic nerve ; this fibrous ring also surrounds the external motor nerve and the nasal branch of the ophthalmic. The superior terminal division of the third nerve is much smaller than the inferior ; it passes below the superior rectus of the eye, and immediately ex- pands into a great number of filaments, one of which is very large, and runs along the outer border of that muscle. Almost all these filaments are intended for the superior rectus, which they enter by its under surface. Several of them are very small, and run along the inner border of the superior rectus to be distributed to the levator palpebrse superioris. The filaments for this last muscle are proportionally much smaller and less numerous than those for the superior rectus. The inferior terminal division is the true continuation of the nerve both as regards its size and direction ; it runs between the optic nerve and the ex- ternal motor nerve, which is in contact with it, and which lies between it and the external rectus muscle, and almost immediately subdivides into three branches ; an internal, which, passing beneath the_ optic nerve, gains the in- ternal surface of the internal rectus and ramifies in that muscle ; a median, which penetrates the inferior rectus; and an external branch, which is the smallest, and runs along the outer side of the inferior rectus as far as the in- ferior oblique, and enters that muscle at its posterior border, and almost at right angles The short thick f lament w}ncb. enters the ophthalmic ganglion proceeds from the branch for the inferior oblique muscle. This filament for the ganglion sometimes arises separately, and appears to be a fourth branch of the inferior division of the third nerve.f • It appears to me that there is a communication between the common and external motor nerves in the cavernous sinus. ... ^ . v. . .„„»o „r.o frnm iho hr.inf h for t I have seen tlie branch for the inferior rectus arise by two roots, one from the brant n lor