1024 NEUROLOGY. are placed. The other two series are destined for the apparatus of nutritive life, and constitute the great sympathetic system, improperly called the c/anglionic system. The identity in nature between the spinal ganglia and the ganglia of the great sympathetic, and also between the cerebro-spinal and the ganglionic system of nerves, is demonstrated by the fact that in a great number of animals the ganglia are blended, or as it were fused together. M. Weber (Anat. Comparee du Nerf Sympathique, 1817) has observed that in animals the developement of the great sympathetic is always inversely proportioned to that of the spinal cord. He has established a simUar relation between the great sympathetic and the pneumogastric nerve ; and indeed in certain species the latter nerve entirely replaces the former. The experiments of M. Legallois upon the spinal cord led him to admit that the visceral nerves are under the influence of the spinal cord, and that the roots of the great sympathetic are in the cord. There are as many spinal ganglia on each side as there are spinal nerves. The ganglia of the great sympathetic in the sacral, lumbar, and dorsal regions, are as numerous as the spinal ganglia; in the cervical region, there are only two or three sympathetic ganglia to correspond to the eight spinal ganglia. The superior cervical ganglion may be supposed to represent several ganglia. In the cranium it is difficult to find any ganglia corresponding to the spinal; still the Gasserian ganglion, and the ganglion of the eighth pair, may be regarded as analogous to them. On the other hand, we may regard the ophthalmic ganglion, the spheno- palatine or Meckel's ganglion, the otic ganglion, and even the upper part of the superior cervical ganglion, as forming the cranial ganglia of the sympa- thetic system. Nevertheless, it would perhaps be more rational to regard the ophthalmic and otic ganglia as quite independent of the three above-mentioned series of ganglia, and as connected with certain local functions. There are a considerable number of these local ganglia, which have received no particular names, and which I shall hereafter point out. Connexions of the Ganglia with each other, and with the Cerebro- spinal Nerves. The spinal ganglia belong specially to the posterior roots of the spinal nerves; but it will presently be seen that the anterior roots are not altogether uncon- nected with them. From the spinal ganglia proceed three branches, viz. a middle branch forming the continuation of the spinal nerve, an anterior or ganglionic branch proceedingto the corresponding ganglion of the great sympathetic, and a posterior branch which is distributed to the muscles and skin on the posterior region of the trunk. . , n, . Each of the ganglia of the great sympathetic receive one or several lilaments from the spinal ganglia, and also a connecting cord from the sympathetic ganglion immediately above it; and each of them gives off a connecting cord to the ganglion next below it, and also certain visceral branches, which some- times terminate directly in the viscera, and sometimes, when their distribution is complicated, proceed to the splanchnic ganglia. Not unfrequently the communicating cords between some of the ganglia oi the sympathetic are wanting, and the continuity of this nerve is then inter- rupted. Bichat relies chiefly upon this interruption in support of his opinion, that the great sympathetic is not a nerve properly so called, but that each oi its ganglia is the centre of a small special nervous system, equally distinct from the cerebro-spinal system and from the other ganglia. The splanchnic ganglia are the centres or pomts of convergence of a great