THE CERVICO-FACIAL NERVE. 1127: the orbicularis palpebrarum, and are reflected upwards, to enter the substance of the lower eyelid, between the palpebral aponeurosis and the palpebral portion of the orbicularis, in which they terminate. They may be traced as far as the free border of the tarsal cartilage where they anastomose with each other. The infra-orbital or buccal branches of the temporo-facial are given off from one or two large branches which accompany the Stenonian duct; they expand, into a great number of filaments, which may be divided into a. superficial and a deep set; the superficial branches run beneath the skin, and above the orbi- cularis oris, the two zygomatici, and the levator labii superioris, all of which they supply ; there can be no doubt that they also give cutaneous filaments ^ these are very small, and very long, and may be followed as far as the hair follicles in the upper lip ; some of these superficial branches reach the lower eyelid, several accompany the facial and angular veins, anastomose with twigs from the infra-trochlear branch of the nasal nerve, and ascend as far as the pyramidalis nasi in which they terminate. The deep branches pass beneath the levator labii superioris, send off numerous filaments to that and the levator anguli oris, and form, together with the terminal divisions of the infra-orbital branch of the superior maxillary, a very remark- able plexus, which may be called the infra-orbital. This plexus is formed by the interlacement of the radiating branches of the facial nerve with those of the infra-orbital branch of the superior maxillary division of the fifth nerve. Now, as the facial nerve radiates from without inwards, and the infra-orbital from above downwards, it follows that the branches of these two nerves meet each other at right angles. This arrange- ment can be rendered more evident by pulling the two sets of nerves in the direction of their length. Most of these branches interlace without anas- tomosing, and proceed directly to their destination. The destination of the facial nerve is evidently rather to the muscles than to the skin; that of the infra-orbital branch of the fifth nerve is rather to the skin and mucous mem- brane than to the muscles ; nevertheless, it cannot be doubted that the facial nerve supplies some cutaneous filaments, and that the fifth nerve gives some twigs to the muscles. Besides, there are some imdoubted anastomoses between these two nerves. The facial also communicates very freely with the buccal nerve, a branch of the inferior maxillary. The infra-orbital branches of the temporo-facial nerve supply the two zygo- matics, the levator labii superioris, the levator labii superioris alseque nasi, the depressor alae nasi, the transversalis nasi, the levator anguli oris, and the orbi- cularis oris. I would also point out a very remarkable branch, which enters the substance of the ala of the nose, and appears to be intended for that sort of sphincter muscle found in the cutaneous fold of the alse. This branch anastomoses with the naso-lobar branch of the internal nasal nerve. The infra-orbital branches of the fifth nerve are distinguished from the infra-orbital branches of the facial nerve, — by their direction; by being more deeply seated; by being much larger; and by being arranged in successive lay ers, which are three in number, a subcutaneous, a submucous, and a muscular i this last set perforates the orbicularis oris, in which some filaments appear to termmate. Among the infra-orbital branches of the fifth nerve, there is one which may be called the nerve of the sub-septum, which runs on the side of the median hne, as far as the tip of the nose, where it terminates. Lastly the infra- orbital branches of the fifth give a dorsal branch for the nose, and two ascending- palpebral branches, which can be easily distinguished from the palpebral branches of the facial nerve. The Cervico-facial Nerve. . '^^^ cervico-facial nerve (/, ^(7. 285.-), which is smaller than the temporo- facial, follows the original course of the facial nerve, and like it runs down- wards and forwards in the parotid gland ; opposite to the angle of the lower