ANTERIOR BRANCHES OF THE CERVICAL NERVES. 1039 ments or plexuses, from which are given off the nerves that ultimately ramify in all parts of the body. . There are four great plexuses : two for the region of the neck and the upper extremity, viz. the cervical plexus ix,fig. 268.) and the brachial plexus (Ji), which might be regarded as a single plexus, the cervico-brachial; and two for the lumbar region and the lower extremity, viz. the lumbar Q) and the sacral or crural plexus (s), which also might be regarded as one, the lumbosacral After these preliminary observations, I shall now describe, in succession, the anterior branches of the cervical, dorsal, lumbar, and sacral nerves. THE ANTERIOR BRANCHES OF THE CERVICAL NERVES. Dissection. Anterior branch of the first, second, third, and fourth cervical nerves. — The Cervical Plexus — its anterior branch, the superficial cer- vical its ascending branches, the great auricular and the external or lesser occipital — its superficial descending branches, the supra-clavicular — its deep descending branches, the nerve to the descendens noni and the phrenic its deep posterior branches.— The anterior branches of the fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth cervical, and first dorsal nerves. — The Brachial Plexus — its collateral branches above the clavicle — its muscular branches, posterior thoracic, supra-scapular, opposite to the clavicle the thoracic, below the clavicle, the circumflex — its terminal branches, the internal cutaneous and its accessory, the musculo-cutaneous, the median, the ulnar, the musculo- spiral or radial. — Summary of the distribution of the branches of the Brachial Plexus. Dissection. It is convenient to, dissect the subcutaneous branches which emerge from the cervical plexus before examining the anterior branches of the cervical nerves : one side of the neck may be reserved for the superficial, and the other for the deep branches. The Anterior Branches of the First, Second, Third, and Fourth Cervical Nerves. TTie anterior branch of the first cervical nerve. This branch (u,fig. 300.) emerges from between the occipital bone and the posterior arch of the atlas in the groove for the vertebral artery, and beneath that vessel; opposite the foramen in the transverse process of the atlas, it leaves the artery, passes in front of the base of that process, is reflected downwards, and descends to form an anastomotic arch with the anterior branch of the second nerve. As all the branches belonging to the first nerve come off from this anastomotic arch they will be described with the second nerve. The anterior branch of the second cervical nerve. This is much smaller than the posterior branch of the same nerve; it passes horizontally forwards be- tween the transverse processes of the atlas and axis, is reflected in front of the axis, and divides into an ascending and a descending branch. The ascending branch curves upwards in front of the transverse process of the atlas, and anastomoses in an arch with the anterior branch of the first nerve. The descending branch (_z,fig. 298.) subdivides into two others of almost equal size: the one internal (see also fig. yoo.), which constitutes the internal descending cervical nerve (before s, fig. 298.); the other external (behind s), which anastomoses with the third nerve (above s) to form the superficial cer- vical nerve (k) and the great auricular nerve (g). Several large filaments for tlie rectus capitis anticus major are given off from the angle of bifurcation of the ascending and descending branches. The anastomotic arch formed by the anterior branches of tlie first and second cervical nerves gives off three or four very large greyish branches and VOL. II. D J)