THE VESSELS AND NERVES OF THE EYE. 885 It is only from analogy that the existence of the membrane of the aqueous humour can be admitted. _ , j. , , ~ We cannot demonstrate anatomically its reflection upon the outer border of the iris; and, moreover, it is certain that it does not exist upon either surface of that membrane. . ,. , , „ , •, According to M. Ribes the aqueous humour is supphed by the vitreous body, and is poured into the posterior chamber by the canals, said by him to exist in the substance of the ciliary processes of the vitreous body. This opinion is founded, 1. upon an experiment, which consists in carefully removing the cornea, and suspending the eye by the optic nerve, when the vitreous humour will exude from the wound of the cornea, so that in less than twenty-four hours two thirds of that body will have escaped ; and 2. upon the observation of cases of imperfect iris, in which, according to M. Ribes, the aqueous hu- mour is contained entirely in the posterior chamber. He believes that the free portion of the vitreous ciliary body has the power of absorbing this liquid. M. Duges adopts the following modification of this opinion: —the canal of Petit, according to him, is divided into as many compartments as there are cUiary processes. It resembles, therefore, a collection of short canals directed from before backwards, rather than a single circular canal; these short canals communicate behind with the vitreous body, and open in front by certain slits or perforations existing in the zone of Zinn, which enable the aqueous humour secreted by the vitreous body to escape in front of the crystalline lens. Haller has stated all the opinions which have been entertained regarding the production of the aqueous humour, which has been said to be secreted by the vitreous body, as believed by MM. Ribes and Duges, by the cUiary pro- cesses, by the choroid, by the iris, and, lastly, by certain special ducts pro- ceeding from without the eye, and perforating the sclerotic at its junction with the cornea. T7ie Vessels and Nerves of the Eye. The arteries of the eye are the following: a considerable number of short posterior ciliary arteries, which surround the optic nerve, perforate the sclerotic near it, and ramify in the choroid, in the ciliary processes, and in the iris ; the anterior short ciliary, which perforate the anterior part of the sclerotic, and are distributed to the iris; the long ciliary arteries, two in number, which run between the sclerotic and the choroid, as far as the outer border of the iris, and then bifurcating and curving inwards, anastomose with each other around that border. From the vascular circle thus formed most of the vessels of the iris are given ofiF. The central artery of the retina {arteria centralis retince) enters the globe of the eye through the centre of the optic nerve (at the porus opticus, h,fig. 246.), and sending off a branch to the crystalline lens, which tra- verses the vitreous body from behind forwards, covers the internal surface of the retina with its other ramifications. The veins correspond to the arteries, but are much more numerous. The posterior, or short ciliary veins, form vortices or whorls in the choroid, and are hence called vasa vorticosa (v. Jig. 244.). All the veins of the globe of the eye open into the ophthalmic and angular veins. The nerves of the eye consist of a special nerve, called the optic nerve, the origin, course, and structure of which will be described hereafter (see Cranial Nerves) ; and, secondly, of the ciliary nerves, which are derived from the fifth nerve, either directly from its nasal branch, or indirectly from the ophthalmic ganghon. These nerves (a a, Jig. 242.) are distributed to the ciliary ligament and to the iris. ° B 4