- NEUROLOGY. During their course in the carotid canal, the external and internal divisions ot the carotid portion of the sympathetic give off the foUowing branches • — ' An anastomotic twig to the nerve of Jacobson. This comes off from the external branch, and is very smaU; it perforates the external wall of the carotid canal, enters the cavity of the tympanum, and anastomoses with the nerve of Jacobson, a branch of the glosso-pharyngeal. An anastomotic twig to the spheno-palatine, or Meckel's ganglion. This, like the preceding, comes from the external division of the carotid branch of the sympathetic, and passes to the vidian or pterygoid branch of the superior maxiUary nerve. We have already spoken of this twig, under the name of the carotid or deep branch of the vidian nerve. Anatomists differ as to whether it should be regarded as passing from the fifth nerve to the superior cervical ganglion, or from the superior cervical ganglion to the fifth nerve. Arnold, on account of its greyish colour, and slight consistence, regards it as coming from the superior cervical ganglion, whilst he believes the great super- ficial petrosal nerve, i. e. the cranial branch of the vidian, also from its colour and consistence, to belong to the cerebro-spinal system of nerves, and to be a branch of the fifth nerve. I have already said that I have never found sufficient difference between the superior petrosal and carotid branches of the vidian to warrant this distinction. These two nerves are moreover per- fectly distinct from each other as far as the spheno-palatine ganglion, in which they terminate. It is important to observe that the two branches of the vidian nerve ter- minate in the enlargement called the spheno-palatine, or Meckel's ganglion : the connexion of this ganglion with the superior cervical ganglion has not been overlooked by those anatomists who regard the spheno-palatine enlarge- ment as a ganglion, and who consider the cranial ganglia as forming part of the sympathetic system. Ariastomotic branches to the sixth nerve. Several branches, generally three, turn round the convex side of the second curve of the internal carotid, reach the outer side of that artery, and anastomose, either separately, or after having united together, with the sixth or external motor oculi nerve. The nerves join at an acute angle opening backwards, within the cavernous sinus, and at the point where the sixth nerve crosses the carotid: as this nerve becomes flattened and widened opposite to the artery, it has been imagined that it was really enlarged, and that this augmentation was due to the addition of filaments from the sympathetic nerve ; but the enlargement is only apparent, and not- withstanding the difference in colour, I should be inclined to admit that the communicating filaments between the sixth nerve and the carotid branches of the sympathetic are furnished by the sixth nerve and have a reflected course. 1 have seen the three communicating filaments between the upper part of the sympathetic and the sixth nerve form a gangliform enlargement as they were about to join the latter ; and it was this gangliform enlargement which gave origin to the plexus surrounding the internal carotid artery and its branches. The Cavernous Plexus. The cavernous plexus, in which the two divisions of the carotid branch of the superior cervical ganglion at length terminate, is situated on the inner side of the carotid artery, at the point where that vessel enters the cavernous sinus. From this greyish plexus, which is intermixed with small vessels (plexus nervoso-arteriosus, Walter), a considerable number of filaments pro- ceed, some of which establish a communication between it and the fifth nerve, whilst others surround the internal carotid, and accompany all its ramifications. The following very numerous branches emerge from the cavernous plexus: lie very properly remarks that, even those anatomists who admit the existence of it are not agreed as to its situation.