NEUROLOGY. -844 According to M. Breschet, certain minutq reddish glands are situated among the subcutaneous adipose vesicles, and constitute the secreting ap- paratus of the epidermis. Excretory ducts are said by him to proceed from the summits of these small glands, to traverse the dermis, and to open at the bottom of the furrows found upon its external surface. According to the same observer, these ducts generally resemble rows of regularly arranged columns; and the glands are sometimes situated at unequal depths from the surface, and communicate with each other by intermediate ducts. I have never succeeded in verifying these observations; and I have equally failed in attempting to decompose the epidermis into a series of layers, becoming less and less compact in proportion to their distance from the surface. The corpus mucosum, or corpus reticulare of Malpighi. Malpighi applied the term reticulum, and others following that great anatomist have given the names corpus reticulare, corpus mucosum, and rete mucosum, to a gelatiniform layer (,d,fig. 227.) of what is regarded as a concrete mucus, situated beneath the epider- mis, and perforated by the papillae, which thus gave it a reticulated appear- ance. This inorganic [non-vascular] layer, which Malpighi first demonstrated beneath the thick epithelium of the tongue of the ox, after it had been boiled, and which he then supposed to exist also in the skin, cannot be demonstrated anatomically ; so that the expressions, corpus mucosum, corpus reticulare, have lost their original signification, and have been interpreted in a difi'erent sense. Haller, and several anatomists quoted by him, regarded the corpus mucosum as a deep layer of the epidermis, some of them confounding it with the pigmentum, and others distinguishing it from that body. Bichat considered the corpus mucosum to be an extremely delicate network of vessels, or system of capillaries, which formed, with the papillae, an intermediate layer between the chorion and epidermis, and was partly intended to convey the blood, and partly the colouring matter of the skin, M. Gauthier, in examining the skin of the heel in the negro, recognised four distinct layers in the corpus mucosum, arranged in the following manner, from within outwards : — 1. vascular processes containing red blood {bourgeons sanguins), which are situated upon and adhere to the papillae; 2. a deep white layer, composed of serous vessels, and moulded upon the vascular processes and papillae ; 3. a layer of gemmules, forming a kind of coloured membrane, excavated upon its deep surface, and separated from the vascular processes and papillae by the deep white layer ; 4. a superficial white layer, which he regards as formed of serous vessels, as weU as the deep white layer. Exter- nally to this is the epidermis. M. Dutrochet, founding his opinion upon the examination of the skins of quadrupeds, admits the different layers of M. Gauthier, excepting the vascular processes, which he very properly regards as forming parts of the papillae : he calls the deep white layer of M. Gauthier the epidermic membrane, the gemmules he terms the coloured layer, and the super- ficial white layer he names the horny layer. Lastly, Gall regarded the corpus mucosum as a layer of grey nervous matter, precisely similar to that of the grey substance of the brain and of the nervous ganglia. ally replaced by others having a similar origin, and undergoing the same changes: these im- bricated scales were described by Leuwenhoek and Baker. The epidermis is insoluble, even in boiling water ; but it swells, and becomes softened ana transparent, in these respects resembling mucus and epithelium ; it consists of a substance called keratin. , . r. The niement granules contained in the deeper epidermic corpuscules are the cause oi tne colour in the skin; they are black in the negro, &c. of lighter hues in other dark ra^s, ami fawn coloured in the European ; in all cases they are darkest in the deeper and newly lormea corpuscules, and fade as these approach the surface: in albinos they «'ther absent or colourless The pigment contains iron and carbon, both m a combined state, ptiospnaie oi lime, and animal matter ; but as it is bleached by chlorine, it contains no free carbon, as sup- posed by some.]