THE PNEUMOGASTRIC NERVE IN THE ABDOMEN. 1137 K K 2 The pneumogastric also gives off certain anterior puhnonary branches, which rim in front of the bronchus and of the puhmonary arteries and veins, cross obliquely over them, and then enter the substance of the lung, following the ramifications of the air tubes and bloodvessels : these pulmonary branches form what is called the anterior pulmmary plexus. I have seen several of them extend some considerable distance beneath the serous membrane, covering the inner surface of the lungs, before they entered the substance of those organs. Behind the bronchus, and along the oesophagus, the pneumogastric nerve gives off posterior branches, consisting of a great number of oesophageal branches; of some tracheal branches, which principally supply the back or membranous portion of the trachea; and lastly, of posterior pulmonary or bronchial branches, which form the posterior pulmonary plexus. The posterior pulmonary plexus is one of the most remarkable in the body ; in it the pneumogastric nerve appears to be decomposed and expanded; there is aright and a left pulmonary plexus. The left is much larger than the right. The two plexuses are not independent of each other, but are connected by free anastomoses: this remarkable disposition establishes a community of function between the two nerves, and explains how one of them may supply the place of the other. The pulmonary plexuses, which are completed by filaments from the great sympathetic, are situated behind the root of each lung, or, to speak more exactly, behind the bronchi (whence the name of bronchial plexuses). A few of the twigs emerging from them follow the pulmonary arteries, and appear to be lost in their coats; the others accompany the bronchi, some of them passing behind these canals, and others, being reflected forwards in the angles formed by their bifurcation, run along their anterior aspect, and terminate in their parietes. They may be traced as far as the ultimate ramifications of the air tubes. In large animals they can be easily seen entering the circular muscular fibres which surround the bronchial tubes.* Below the pulmonary plexus, the pneumogastric merely gives off certain (esophageal branches, which surround the oesophagus in very great numbers. The right and left pneumogastric nerves anastomose with each other; but the communicating arches do not constitute those circular anastomoses, which have been so decidedly said to explain the pain caused by swallowing too large a morsel of food. The Pneumogastric Nerve in the Abdomen. The two pneumogastrics enter the abdomen with the oesophagus, the left nerve being in front and the right nerve behind that canal, and are dis- tributed in the following manner : The left nerve {q,Jig. 302.), which is situated in front of the cardia, expands into a very great number of diverging filaments, some of which extend over the great cul-de-sac, and others over the anterior surface of the stomach ; but the greater number gain the lesser curvature, and divide into two sets or groups; one of these leaves the lesser curvature, enters the gastro-hepatic omentum, is conducted by it to the transverse fissure of the liver, and enters that gland. The other group continues in the lesser curvature and may be traced as far as the duodenum. The right pneumogastric (>'), situated behind the cardia, gives a much smaller number of branches to the stomach than the left, and joins the solar plexus (x) of which It may be regarded as one of the principal origins. Summary of the distribution of the pneumogastric nerve. This nerve it will be seen, has an extremely complicated distribution. ' "Within the foramen lacerum posterius, it anastomoses with the spinal ac- *.I have seen a noryc from the pulmonary plexus pass through some of the fibres of ih^ oesophagus and ramify m the aorta. o mi, Hures oi the