ANGEIOLOGY. 708 the skin, and is crossed by the descending cutaneous branches of the cervical plexus, and obhquely by the supra-scapular artery and vein; below, it rests upon the first rib. In consequence of these relations, the subclavian artery may be compressed and the circulation of the upper extremity slopped by forcible depression of the clavicle ; the subclavian may be easily felt, compressed, and tied above the clavicle; and lastly, it follows that the sharp fragments of a broken clavicle can wound the coats of the artery only after having transfixed the subclavius muscle and the subclavian vein. This artery, moreover, presents individual varieties both in regard to its direction and relations; it usually rises slightly above the clavicle, but in perspns with short necks and high shoulders it is situated deeply under the clavicle, while in those who have long necks and low shoulders it may even slightly raise up the platysma and the skin. Collateral branches. The subclavian artery gives off certain collateral branches, which may be divided into the superior, inferior, and external. The superior are the vertebral and the inferior thyroid; the inferior are the internal mammary and the superior intercostal; the external are the supra-scapular, the posterior scapular or transversalis colli, and the deep cervical. Besides these, the subclavian arteries sometimes give ofiF, near their origin, pericardiac, thymic, and oesophageal branches; not unfrequently the left sub- clavian gives origin to the bronchial artery of that side. The Vertebral Artery. The vertebral artery, destined for the cerebro-spinal nervous centre, supplies more particularly the spinal cord, the pons Varolii, the cerebellum, and the posterior portion of the cerebrum. It is the first and largest branch of the subclavian, and in some subjects is about equal in size to the continuation of that vessel. A very great inequality in the size of the two vertebrals is rather frequently met with. Morgagni states, that he has seen the right vertebral four times as large as the left ; I have seen the left vertebral repre- sented by a very small twig. The vertebral artery arises (2, Jig. 204.) from the upper and back part of the subclavian, at the point where it curves over the apex of the lung; the left vertebral often arises directly from the arch of the aorta, between the common carotid and subclavian of the same side. The right vertebral has been found arising from the point at which the innominate divides into the right common carotid and right subclavian. It has also been seen arising by two trunks, both of which sometimes come from the subclavian ; and at others one proceeds from that artery, and the other from the arch of the aorta. Immediately after leaving the subclavian, the vertebral artery passes vertically upwards, and a little backwards, enters between the transverse pro- cesses of the sixth and seventh cervical vertebras, in order to reach the foramen in the base of the transverse process of the sixth, ascends through the foramina in the transverse processes of the succeeding cervical vertebra;, de- scribing some slight curves in passing from one to another. In order to gain the foramen in the axis, it forms a considerable vertical curve between the atlas and that bone ; it then forms a second horizontal curve between the atlas and the occipital bone, perforates the posterior occipito-atloid ligament and dura mater, and enters the cranium by the foramen magnum. The right and left vertebral arteries turn round the sides of the medulla oblongata, between the hypoglossal and sub-occipital nerves, converge (i i,fig. 208.) in front of the medulla, and near the furrow which separates it from the pons Varolii, unite at an acute angle to form the basilar artery (6). The two remarkable curves described by the vertebral artery before it enters the cranium, are in accord- ance with those formed by the internal carotid within the carotid canaJ and cavernous sinus. I have seen the vertebral very tortuous at the lower part of