THE POSTERIOR AURICULAR ARTERY. 689 Lastly in the substance of the tongue, the lingual artery gives off superior, internai,'and external branches, which supply the muscles and the papillary membrane of that organ. The Occipital Artery. The occipital artery (o o, fig. 204.), which is distributed to the posterior region of the head, is smaller than the three branches of the external carotid already described. It arises from the back of the external carotid, on a level with the lino-ual or the facial, sometimes immediately below the parotid gland ; it passes obliquely upwards and backwards, as high as the apex of the mastoid process ; it then passes horizontally backwards, and on the inner side of the splenius muscle, divides into two ascending branches : one external, which immediately bends upwards ; the other internal, which is continued horizontally, and is then reflected vertically upwards on the side of the occipital protuberance. These two branches, which are very tortuous, cover the occipital region with their numerous ramifications, and reach as high as the vertex, anastomosing with each other, and with the superficial temporal arteries. It is situated deeply at its origin, and is covered by the digastric muscle, and the hypo-glossal nerve; it is still more deeply situated as it passes between the mastoid process and the atlas, where it is covered by the digastric and the sterno-mastoid ; its horizontal portion is situated between the obliquus capitis superior and the splenius muscle, then between the complexus and the sple- nius, running along the occipital insertion of the latter muscle, on the inner side of which it becomes subcutaneous. The two branches into which this artery divides, and all its succeeding ramifications, are situated between the skin on the one hand, and the occipital muscle and the occipito-frontal apo- neurosis on the other. Collateral branches. Among a great number of small and unnamed ramus- culi, we shall distinguish the following branches : a superior sterno-mastoid ar- tery, which constantly exists, but is sometimes given off from the external carotid itself; it forms a curve, with its concavity directed downwards, under which the hypo-glossal nerve turns; it then penetrates the deep surface of the upper portion of the sterno-mastoid : a slylo-mastoid branch, which is often de- rived from the posterior auricular artery : a meningeal artery, or posterior mas - toid, which enters the cranium, either by the foramen mastoideum, the fo- ramen lacerum posterius, or even the foramen magnum, and is distributed to the dura mater: a cervical artery (princeps cervicis), which descends between the aplenius and complexus muscles, and may be followed down to the lower part of the neck; this branch is sometimes of considerable size : lastly, very often, a tennlnal branch, the parietal, which enters the cranium by the parietal fo- ramen, and ramifies in that portion of the dura mater which forms the superior longitudinal sinus. The Posterior Auricular Artery. posterior auricular artery (s,fig. 204.) is intended for the pinna, the in- ternal ear, and the neighbouring parts of the cranium; it is usually smaller than the occipital, but is sometimes as large; it arises from the back of the external carotid, a little above the occipital, and rather often by a common trunk with that arteiy. It passes vertically upwards, being deeply seated under the digastricus ; it is then covered by the parotid gland, which it perforates to gain the posterior border of the mastoid process, upon which it divides into two brandies, a mastoid and an auricular. In this course it gives off several parotid and muscular branches, and the stylo-mastoid artery, which is sometimes derived from the occipital. The stylo-mastoid artery, so remarkable for the length of its course, dips into the stylo-mastoid foramen, runs the whole length of the aqueduct of Fallopius, giving off, as it proceeds, some twigs to the internal ear, and terminates by K 2