THE FEMORAL ARTERY. 743 male and the round ligament in the female, and passes in the one to the co- verings of the testicles, and in the other to the lahia majora; a second branch, -which runs along the inner portion of the femoral arch, and anastomoses ytith. its fellow of the opposite side behind the symphysis ; and lastly, a branch which crosses the horizontal ramus of the pubes at right angles, and anastomoses -with the obturator. I have already stated that this small branch may be re- garded as forming the trunk of the obturator, when that artery arises from the epigastric. In its oblique and vertical portions, the epigastric gives off a number of intenial and external ascending branches, which pass very oblicjuely through the rectus abdominis, partially supply that muscle, and then pierce the anterior wall of its sheath, the internal branches near the linea alba and the external branches near the outer border of the sheath, to ramify upon the skin. These branches anastomose with the internal mammary and with the lumbar arteries. The anastomosis of the epigastric with the internal mammary takes place only in the substance of the rectus, and by very small vessels. The Circumflex Iliac Artery. The circumflex or posterior iliac artery {x,figs. 199. 212.), smaller than the epigastric, arises from the outer part of the external iliac, either opposite the epigastric or a little below it. It sometimes arises from the upper part of the femoral artery : it is generally single, but occasionally double, which may be regarded as resulting from a premature division of the vessel. It passes obliquely upwards and outwards, behind the crural arch, with which it is held in contact by a fibrous layer interposed between it and the peritoneum. Opposite the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium it divides into two branches — one is an ascending or abdominal branch, which passes upwards, in the substance of the abdominal parietes, between the transversalis and obliquus internus muscles, parallel with the epigastric artery, and terminates by anas- tomosing with the inferior intercostal and the lumbar arteries; the other is the circumflex iliac artery properly so called, which is the continuation of the vessel in direction and sometimes in size; it runs along the crest of the ilium, is at first sub-aponeurotic, or rather is contained between two layers of fascia in the cellular interval separating the transversalis from the obliquus internus, and terminates by anastomosing with the fourth lumbar artery upon the crest of the Uium. During its course, the circumflex Uiac artery gives off ascending branches which ramify in the muscles and integuments of the abdominal parietes, and descending branches which ramify in the iliac fossa, and anastomose with the iliac branches of the obturator artery. The Femorai, Artery. The femoral or crural artery (a a', fig. 214.) is that portion of the artery of the lower extremity which intervenes between the external iliac and popliteal arteries; it is bounded above by the crural arch, and below by the junction of the two upper thirds with the lower third of the thigh, or rather by the place where the artery passes through the tendinous ring formed by the adductor magnus. It has been proposed to take as the lower boundary of the femoral artery the origm of the deep femoral or profunda artery, which has been correctly regarded as a terminal branch resulting from the bifurcation of the femoral artery, rather than as a collateral branch. According to this view, which has not been generaUy adopted, the femoral would not be more than from an inch and a half to two mches in length, and would divide into a superficial and deep femoral. The femoral artery is directed verticaUy, andsomewhat obliquely backwards,