THE ANTERIOR DENTAL NERVE. .1117 The Posterior Dental Nerves. Dissection. These nerves can be readily seen without any dissection through the bone, when this is rendered transparent by nitric acid. They must be examined both from the external surface of the bone, and from the mterior of the sinus. The posterior dental or alveolo-dental nerves (e, figs. 298. 300, 301.) are two in number, a superior, and an inferior ; sometimes there are three; they arise from the superior maxillary nerve, sometimes by a common trunk, some- times separately, just as that nerve is about to enter the infra-orbital canal: they run forwards and downwards, at first in contact with the maxillary tu- berosity, and give off some filaments to the buccinator muscle, and to the gums, and some which are distinctly distributed to the mass of fat in the cheek ; they then enter certain canals in the substance of the maxiUary tuberosity, and become flattened or ribbon-shaped. The posterior and superior dental nerve passes from behind forwards through the base of the malar eminence of the superior maxillary bone and anastomoses on a level with the canine fossa with a filament from the anterior dental nerve. The posterior and inferior dental nerve, which is larger than the preceding, runs in a curved direction below the malar eminence, the concavity of the curve being directed upwards, and anastomoses with the posterior and superior dental nerve on a level with the canine fossa. No filament is given off from the upper side of these nerves, but they give off a great number of filaments downwards which anastomose, and form a series of very remarkable meshes or areolae ; these meshes, and the dental nerves which come from them, are situated within the substance of the bone, but are much nearer to the sinus than to the outer surface of the bone. It is form these meshes that the extremely delicate filaments arise which form the dental nerves of the molars and bicuspids ; their number corresponds to that of the fangs of these teeth.* Some filaments evidently terminate in the substance of the superior maxillary bone; no other bone in the body has so large a number of proper filaments. The Anterior Dental Nerve. The anterior dental or alveolo-dental nerve (J, fig. 298.) is the only branch given off by the superior maxillary nerve whilst within the infra-orbital canal \; it arises about five or six lines from the anterior orifice of that passage It is so large that it may be regarded as resulting from the bifurcation of the infra-orbital nerve. It soon enters a special canal formed for it in the superior maxillary bone, gives off on the outer side a small branch which anastomoses with the posterior and superior dental nerve, passes at first horizontally in- wards, and then vertically downwards, turning round the margin of the anterior opening of the corresponding nasal fossa, and is reflected upon the floor of that fossa; durmg the whole of this course it is situated within the substance of the superior maxillary bone; its horizontal portion is superficial and its vertical portion is deep seated, having merely a thin bony lamella between it and the pituitary membrane. Having arrived on a level with the floor of the nasal fossa, about two lines from its anterior opening, it expands into a great number of ascending and descending filaments; the ascending filaments are reflected upwards withm the anterior nasal spine where they terminate. They appear ^^I^i=^^?ii^^'''^n".'l:P" The cranial or superficial petrosal branch, on the C consistence "characters of the cerebro-spinal ner^;es ; it is of a white colon " aSd * In those molar teeth which have two or three roots, the nervous filaments subdivide and anastomose with each other in the substance of the dental pulp suuaiviae ana inL^-rbiteTclnar"'"''' ' '"P"'""^ '^""'"^ """'^^ within the