THE LYMPHATICS OF THE THORAX. The Lymphatic Vessels of the Thorax. The lymphatic vessels of the thorax are divided into those of the parietes and those of the organs contained in the thoracic cavity. The lymphatics of the thoracic parietes. "We shall here merely notice the deep-seated lymphatics. They are divided into the intercostal, the suhsternal or internal mammary, and the diaphragmatic. The intercostal lymphatics accompany the arteries and veins of that name ; they receive the lymphatic vessels of the intercostal muscles and costal pleura, run alon" the grooves of the ribs, pass through the intercostal lymphatic glands, reach the sides of the vertebrte, unite with other lymphatics from the back of the thorax and from the spinal canal, enter the lymphatic glands on the sides of the vertebral column, and are for the most part directed down- wards to terminate in the thoracic duct. The substernal or internal mammary lymphatics arise from the supra-umbilical portion of the anterior walls of the abdomen ; they pass into the thorax, be- hind the ensiform cartilage, and form two bundles, which run upon the sides of the sternum, unite with the anterior intercostal and external mammary lymph- atics, and enter the internal mammary lymphatic glands. From the lowest of these glands other lymphatics proceed, and ascend in succession from one gland to another up to the inferior cervical lymphatic glands ; on the left side they enter the thoracic duct, and on the right, the great lymphatic trunk. Sometimes, but rarely, the mammary lymphatics open dii'ectly into the in- ternal jugular and subclavian veins. The lymphatics of the diaphragm for the most part unite with the intercostal and hepatic lymphatics ; the others run forwards between the pleura and the fleshy fibres of the diaphragm ; some of them enter the inferior mediastinal glands, and the others, the internal mammary lymphatic glands. The lymphatics of the thoracic viscera. The lymphatics of the lungs are divided into superficial and deep: the superficial lymphatics may be injected in the same manner as those of the liver; they form an extremely close network beneath the pleura pulmonalis, and frequently present a number of, as it were, varicose enlargements : these were noticed and figured by Mascagni; and the frequency of their occurrence led him to inquire whether such was not the natural structure of lymphatics. Some of the vessels which proceed from this network run in the interlobular fissures, and enter the lymphatic glands situ- ated at the bottom of these fissures; whilst the others reach the internal surface of the lung, and terminate in the bronchial glands. These superficial lymphatics also communicate with the deep lymphatics, in the cellular intervals between the lobules of the lung. The deep lymphatics of the lung are very numerous: the manner in which they commence in the lobules is not well known : they run in the interlobular cellular tissue, and all proceed towards the root of the lung, in order to termi- nate in the glands situated around the bronchi, and in several which lie along the (Esophagus. It is doubtful whether a single pulmonary lymphatic vessel enters directly into another lymphatic gland, without first going through a bronchial gland. _ Other lymphatics proceed from these bronchial glands ; some of which pass in front of the trachea to enter the tracheal lymphatic glands, whilst the others proceed to the lymphatic glands upon the oesophagus. On the left side both sets enter the thoracic duct, at a short distance before its termination ; these are more numerous than those on the right side, which enter the right lymph- atic duct, feome of them terminate in the thoracic duct, before it emerges from the thorax; several of these vessels are also seen to enter the internal jugular and subclavian veins. I should observe that, in consequence of the above mentioned anatomical vol,. IT. n