1158 NEUROLOGY. spond: the two superior thoracic ganglia are the largest, and are almost always united; the succeeding ganglia are almost of equal size ; the twelfth being next in size to the first and second. The ganglionic structure is observed throughout the whole extent of this part of the sympathetic, so that the cords of communication between the ganglia may be said to be merely prolongations of the ganglia. In some subjects, the ganglia cannot be dis- tinguished from the portions of the sympathetic trunk above and below them, except by the branches which enter and converge from those points ; it would therefore be a seri6us anatomical error to regard the portions of the trunk between the ganglia as mere filaments of communication. In some subjects, the cords between the ganglia are divided into two or three filaments. The varieties observed in the number of the thoracic ganglia are rather apparent than real: they depend, some upon fusion of the first thoracic ganglion with the inferior cervical ganglion, or of the first and second thoracic gang- lia ; others upon fusion of two central ganglia, or upon that, which is more common, of the last thoracic with the first lumbar ganglion; upon a tremsposition of the last thoracic ganglion, which is then found upon the first lumbar vertebra; and lastly, upon the two inferior thoracic ganglia being situated in the last in- tercostal space. Besides this, the three lowest thoracic ganglia are subject to much variety, both in situation and in shape ; and the same may be said of the mode of connexion between the twelfth thoracic and the first lumbar ganglion. The thoracic portion of the sympathetic lies beneath the pleura and the very thin fibrous layer by which that membrane is strengthened. It can be dis- tinctly seen without any dissection in consequence of the transparency of these layers. The intercostal ai-teries and veins pass behind it; on the right side, the vena azygos runs along it. The thoracic portion of the sympathetic gives off, external branches, or branches of communication with the dorsal nei-ves ; and internal branches, which are in- tended for the aorta and the abdominal viscera. The External or Spinal Brandies. There are at least two spinal branches from each ganglion, one superficial and larger, which is connected to the outer angle of the ganglion ; the other deep and smaller, which is attached to its posterior surface : there is some- times a third filament of communication. Not unfrequently these branches unite into a single trunk, before reaching the ganglion. I regard these anastomotic branches (ee), between the spinal nerves and the ganglia of the sympathetic, not as branches furnished by the ganglia to the spinal nerves, nor simply as means of communication between one and the other, but rather as branches of origin of the sympathetic : this indeed is clearly demonstrated by the arrangement of these spinal branches of the sympathetic, which are always proportioned to the size of the ganglia from wliich they arise. In general, each ganglion communicates only with the corresponding spinal nerve; not unfrequently, however, a ganglion receives a twig from the intercostal nerve immediately below it. * The branches of communication from the dorsal nerves to the thoracic ganglia of the sympathetic are horizontal, or rather they are inclined obliquely downwards and inwards, excepting those which ascend to the first thoracic ganglion, and those which descend to join the last thoracic gangUon. These branches are white, like the nerves of the cerebro-spinal system, and not grey like the ganglionic nerves. On examining their ultimate distribution in the sympathetic ganglia, and their connexions with the dorsal or mtercostal nerves, after the parts have been macerated, first in diluted nitric acid and then in water, it is seen that these branches are evidently reflected funiculi of the * In one subiect I found a very remarkable disposition of the branches for the four inferior .v,„,lnir„nn,jH» Sorne small twigs from these four ganglia terminated in ammuto gangliform sS?e^ whiJh ga'roff the branches to the spinal Lr4s. It will be seen that Iho same ar- ratigeraent frequently occurs in the lumbar region.