ANGEIOLOGY. 790 General Remarks upon the Superficial Veins of the Upper Extremity. From the preceding description it follows, that the cephalic vein forms the continuation of the radial, which is itself the continuation of the cephalic vein of the thumb, and that the basilic is a prolongation of the ulnar, which is a con- tinuation of the vena salvatella. The median vein, placed as it is between the radial and ulnar veins, bifurcates so as to terminate equally in the two latter veins, and establishes a free anastomosis between them. The anastomoses of the several subcutaneous veins together are very nu- merous, and enable them mutually to supply the place of each other. The anastomoses between the subcutaneous and deep veins are not less numerous. Thus, the superficial collateral veins of the fingers communicate with the deep collateral veins: communications exist between the superficial and deep veins of the carpus : very large communications exist between the two sets of vessels at the bend of the elbow, so that, in fact, they are continuous with each other ; thus, the superficial radial vein is sometimes continuous with one of the deep radials, and the median, as it divides into the median basilic and median cephalic, occasionally sends a very large branch to the brachial. In one case, where the median vein was wanting, I found that the ulnar, the deep inter- osseous, and the deep radial veins, formed a plexus, which gave oW two branches, an external to the cephalic, and an internal, which formed the deep brachial vein. The superficial ulnar veins often communicate freely with the deep idnar, beneath the muscles attached to the internal condyle. Along the arm, the basilic vein communicates with one of the brachial veins by several transverse branches. Not unfrequently the basilic vein com- municates with the brachial by a very delicate branch, which forms a lateral canal. Valves. The valves are more numerous in the deep than in the superficial veins; they increase in number as we approach the upper part of the arm, and are much more numerous in the basilic than in the cephalic vein. There are three in that part of the cephalic which corresponds to the furrow between the deltoid and the pectoralis major. There is one at the opening of the cephalic into the axillary; another at the opening of the basilic into the brachial: all the small veins which enter the cephalic and basilic, as well as those which terminate in the deep veins, are also provided at their openings with valves, which prevent the regurgitation of the blood during life, and the passage of an injection from the heart towards the extremities. General relations. The subcutaneous veins are separated from the skin by the superficial fascia, and by the layer of fat above it. The median basilic is the only exception, for it is in contact with the skin, at least in the majority of subjects. The subcutaneous veins must be carefully distinguished from the cutaneous veins, properly so called, which are in contact with the true skin, or even ramify in its substance, and which are sometimes of considerable size, especi- ally in the neighbourhood of certain tumours. From the relation of the median basilic vein with the brachial artery, over which it crosses at a vei7 acute angle, and from which it is separated only by the fibrous expansion from the tendon of the biceps, it foUows, that in emaciated persons the vein is almost in contact with the artery ; so that, in bleeding from the median basilic, if the vein be perforated quite through, the artery may be wounded The practical rules to be derived from this anatomical fact are, m the first place, to avoid bleeding in the median basUic as much as possible, and whenever it must be chosen, to open it either below or above the pomt where it crosses over the artery. tt.ii ■ . , ,* In the description of the lymphatics and nerves of the arm, I shall pom out their relations with the superficial veins. I may now state, however, that the