767 THE BRACHIO-CEPHALIC VEINS. of the mediastinum and by the phrenic nerve, which is at first on the outer side and then passes in front of the vein ; on the left side, it is m relation wifh the arch of the aorta; in front, with the remains of the thymus gland and the cellular tissue of the mediastinum, by which it is separated from the sternum; behind, with the trachea, a great number of lymphatic glands intervening be- tween them. c 4.1. 4. Within the pericardium the vena cava is covered by the serous layer ot tnat membrane in its anterior three fourths: it is in immediate contact behind with the right pulmonary artery and right superior pulmonary vein ; on the left side, it is merely in contact with the aorta. The superior vena cava has no valves, either in its course or at its opening: it follows, therefore, that each contraction of the auricle is accompanied by a regurgitation of blood into the vena cava and into the branches immediately opening into it. Upon this regurgitation depends the phenomenon of venous pulsation. The vena cava presents certain conditions in its structure which require special notice. It has been said that the muscular fibres of the auricle are prolonged upon it; I can state that such is not the case. The serous layer of the pericardium covers the pericardial portion of this vein, and the fibrous layer is prolonged upon that part of the vessel which is external to the peri- cardium. Lastly, the relative length of the intra- and extra-pericardial portions of the vena cava is subject to much variety: sometimes the vein enters the pericar- dium at about the middle of its course ; sometimes only a few lines from its termination in the auricle. The caliber of the vena cava superior is less than that of both the brachio- cephalic trunks taken together, and also less than that of the vena cava inferior. Its length varies from two and a half to three inches. Sometimes this vein is double: I once found in an adult two superior cavfe, opening into the right auricle, a variety which evidently depended upon the two brachio-cephalic veins not having united. This condition is normal in several animals. Collateral veins. The vena cava superior receives no branch whilst within the pericardium, inimediately before entering which it receives the vena azygos. The right inferior thyroid and internal mammary veins, and the small veins called thymic, pericardiac, mediastinal, and right superior phrenic, generally enter opposite the junction of the two brachio-cephalic trunks, and not into the vena cava itself. As the vena azygos forms part of the system of spinal veins, it will be de- scribed with them. As the other veins have a similar distribution on both sides, the description of those on the left side will apply to those of the right also. The Brachio-cephalic Veins. The brachio-cephalic veins, or vence innominatee of Meckel (c c', fig. 170.), which are generaUy included in the description of the subclavian vein, corre- spond exactly to the brachio-cephalic or innominate artery, being formed by the union of the internal jugular vein (d) and the subclavian vein (e), properly so called, which correspond to the common carotid and the subclavian arteries. 1 here are two brachio-cephalic veins, one for the right (c') and one for the left side (c); so that the arrangement of the veins of the upper half of the body IS more symmetrical than that of the arteries. The right and left venous trunks differ from each other in length; for as they both commence at the junction of the corresponding internal jugular and subclavian veins, opposite the sternal end of the clavicle of their own side and termmate on the right of the median line, to form the commencement of the vena cava superior, it follows, therefore, that the right brachio-cephalic