NEUROLOGY. mercury, by injecting them from tlje gland towards the eyehds. Having sought in vain, both witli the naked eye and with a lens, for the orifices of the excretory ducts of the lachrymal gland in the human subject, I thought of dipping the eye and eyelids in a solution ot carmine, or slightly diluted ink; and I then saw distinctly a dozen open- ings arranged in a line along the point of reflection of the palpebral con- junctiva upon the eyebaU, and occupying the outer half of the eyelid.* The Lachrymal Puncta and Canals. The punctalachryinalia {a, fig. 239.), two in number, one for each eyelid, are those small orifices or foramina which are visible to the naked eye in the centre of the lachrymal papilla;: they are perfectly circular, are always open, and are directed backwards ; the upper one being turned down- wards, and the lower one upwards. These openings, which are kept apart from each other by the caruncula lachrymalis, are the capillary orifices of two small canals, called the lachrymal canals. The lachrymal canals (/ /) are small tubes, extending from the puncta lachrymalia to the lachrymal sac. They are two in number, a superior and an inferior, each being somewhat larger than the corresponding lachrymal punctum. Their angular course is very remarkable. They pass at first vertically, the superior duct upwards and the inferior duct downwards, and after a short course they bend abruptly at right angles, run inwards, and open by separate orifices, never together, into the anterior and external part of the lachrymal sac. The direction of the second portion of each of the lachrymal canals varies according as the eyelids are closed or open : the duct of the lower eyelid is directed somewhat obliquely upwards, that of the upper eyelid downwards, even when the lids are completely closed ; but they are both very oblique when the eyelids are separated; and as this separation is principally due to the elevation of the upper eyelid, it follows that the obliquity of the upper lachrymal canal must be very well marked. The coats of the lachrymal canals are dense and elastic, so that they do not collapse when empty, and must therefore act as capiOary tubes. We do not find any sphincter, either at their palpebral or their nasal orifice ; they appear to be formed in the substance of the free margin of each eyelid ; they are lined by a prolongation of the conjunctiva, and are covered by the fibres of the or- bicularis palpebrarum muscle. Behind them are found some muscular fibres, forming a dependence of a small fasciculus, called the muscle of Horner, or the lachrymal muscle, which was believed by that anatomist to serve in drawing the lachrymal ducts inwards. The Muscle of Horner. Dissection. Turn the eyelids inwards, and carefully remove a fibrous layer which covers this muscle upon the lachrymal sac. This small muscle arises from the vertical ridge of the os unguis, which forms the posterior border of the lachrymal groove; from this point it passes trans- versely outwards along the posterior tendon of the orbicularis palpebrarum, and divides into two tongues, a superior and an inferior, which correspond to the lachrymal canals, and terminate at the respective lachrymal puncta. I regard these fibres as a dependence of the orbicularis palpebrarum. • I find in Haller, that it was in a human eye which had been macerated for some time in water tinged with blood, that Monro (Secundus) discovered these orifices. After they have been discovered, it is easy to introduce the end of the mercurial injecting pipe mto them.