915 THE RACHIDIAN OR SPINAL DURA MATER. T 3 tended with an injection: it is then seen to form a funnel-shaped tube, -which is of considerable size in the cervical region, becomes contracted in the dorsal region, is again expanded in the lumbar region, and terminates in the sacral reo-ion' by subdividing into a number of sheaths for the sacral nerves. When distended, the spinal portion of the dura mater almost entirely fills the bony canal formed by the vertebral column. Why the cavity of the dura mater (d,fig. 266. A B) should be larger than the spinal cord (s), a question, the solution of which had exercised the ingenuity of almost all anatomists, has been well answered by Cotugno — it is for the purpose of containing a serous fluid.* . .... The external surface of the spinal portion of the dura mater, unlike, in this respect, to the cranial portion, scarcely adheres to the bony parietes of the spinal canal. Covered by a plexus of veins behind, it has no attachment at all to the arches of the vertebrae, nor to the yellow ligaments ; the intervals between those parts and the membrane is occupied by a soft, reddish, adipose tissue intermixed with veins, which in the foetus, and during infancy, is in- filtrated with serosity. This fat, which is most abundant in the sacral region, may be most aptly compared to the marrow of the long bones, with which it has so much analogy in respect of its use. In one class of vertebrated animals, viz. fishes, a precisely similar kind of fat is accumulated in large quantities in the cranium, always filling up the spaces left by the contained organs. In front, the external surface of the dura mater adheres to the posterior common vertebral ligament by fibrous bands, prolonged from it at intervals. On each side, the spinal portion of the dura mater gives off fibrous sheaths {I, fig. 266.; b',fig. 267.) for the roots of the spinal nerves (n), which sheaths accompany the nerves beyond the intervertebral foramina, and are lost in the cellular tissue. The internal surface of this part of the dura mater is smooth and moist, in consequence of being covered by a serous layer, viz. the arachnoid (a). Down each side of this surface are seen the double orifices of the several fibrous canals, which transmit the anterior and posterior roots of the spinal nerves. It is very rarely found entirely free from adhesions to the arachnoid; and it is necessary to be carefiil not to confound these adhesions, which are always met with at isolated points, with such as are the result of morbid action. The inferior extremity of the spinal portion of the dura mater is situated op- posite the bottom of the lumbar region, and it therefore extends much lower than the spinal cord; this extremity is formed into a large ampulla around the Cauda equina, which enlargement seems to be of use only as a reservoir for the cephalo-rachidian fluid. Its superior extremity is firmly attached to the margin of the foramen magnum, and is continuous with the cranial portion of this membrane. In consequence of the firm adhesion of this membrane to the margin of the foramen magnum, and of its attachment to the sacrum by means of the sheaths for the sacral nerves, and to the sides of the vertebral column by those for the cervical, dorsal, and lumbar nerves, it is constantly maintained in a state of tension highly favourable to its use as a protecting covering of the spinal cord. Vessels. The vessels of the spinal dura mater are much less numerous than those of the cranial portion ; for these belong exclusively to it, and not to the surrounding bones. Its arteries arise from the spinal branches of the arteries of the cervical dorsal, lumbar, and sacral regions. Its veins terminate in the intra-spinal veins! » " Quidquid autem spatii est inter vaginam durac matris ct medullam spinalem, id omne plenum etiam semper est; non mednlia quidem ipsa in viventibus turgidiori, non nube vanorosT quod in re adliuc obscura suspicantur summi y\ri ■ sed aqua ei quidem simili, quam ciVca contmet pericnrduim, quae caveas cerebri ventriculorum adimplet, qure auris labyrinthum niur J^irrasfl p" lO "corporis cavcas, libero aeri, nequaquara adeundas." {De IsclUadc