801 THE INTERNAL SAPHENOUS VEINS. last mentioned vein commences at the inner extremity of the dorsal venous arch of the foot, into which the collateral veins of the great toe open ; it runs along the dorsal surface of the first metatarsal bone and the corresponding part of the tarsus, and receives, during its course, a deep branch from the internal plantar vein and all the superficial veins of the internal plantar region, and particularly the internal calcaneal vein, which is sometimes large, and which, in certain cases, does not terminate in the saphenous vein until it has reached above the internal malleolus, around the posterior border of which it turns. The internal saphenous vein succeeds to the one just described ; it is reflected upwards in front of the internal malleolus, and continues to ascend upon the inner surface, then along the posterior border of the tibia, and upon the back of the internal tuberosity of that bone and the internal condyle of the femur. In this place it is situated on the inner side of the tendons of the semi-tendi- nosus, gracilis, and sartorius ; it then inclines forwards describing a slight curve, with its concavity directed forwards; ascends along the anterior border of the sartorius, and crosses obliquely over the adductor longus ; having arrived at the saphenous opening in the fascia lata, about eight or ten lines below Poupart's Ugament, it immediately curves backwards, passes through that opening, and enters into the femoral vein, just as the vena azygos enters into the superior vena cava, that is to say, it describes a loop having its concavity directed downwards. Several lymphatic glands are found near this curve. Relations. The internal saphenous vein is separated from the skin by a very thin fibrous layer, the superficial fascia, and is in relation with the in- ternal malleolus, the tibia, the tibial origin of the soleus, the tendons of the semi-tendinosus, gracilis, and sartorius, with the last named muscle itself, and with the adductor longus. It is accompanied by the internal saphenous nerve, from the knee down to the internal malleolus. During its course it receives aU the subcutaneous veins of the thigh, most of the subcutaneous veins of the leg, the subcutaneous veins of the abdomen, the external pudic veins, and several conmiunicating branches from the deep veins. The subcutaneous femoral veins of the back of the thigh sometimes imite into one rather large trunk, which appears like a second internal saphenous vein ; it runs parallel with the regular vein, and enters it at a greater or less distance from its termination. I have met with an anterior superficial vein which com- menced around the patella, ascended vertically along the anterior region of the thigh, and might be regarded as a third saphenous vein. In one case of this kind, these three saphenous veins, viz. the anterior, posterior, and internal, en- tered separately into the femoral vein, or rather into a dilatation in which the internal saphenous vein terminated. The internal saphenous vein often presents the following arrangement—op- posite the lower part of the leg, or at the lower end of the thigh, it divides into two equal branches which pass upwards, communicate with each other by transverse branches, and unite after running a variable distance; in these cases the two branches represent a yery elongated ellipse. I have even seen this arrangement in both the thigh and leg of the same subject, that is to say, the saphenous vein divided into two branches in the leg, which united opposite the internal tuberosity of the tibia, and again divided in the thigh. It IS not uncommon to find a venous network supplying the place of the in- ternal saphenous vein in the thigh. The subcutaneous abdominal veins should be arranged amongst the superficial and supplementary veins, although there is a smaU artery, the superficial epi- gastric, which corresponds to them. There are three or four of these veins which are joined by one from the gluteal region ; they open sometimes by a conimon trunk, sometimes by three or four distinct trunks, into the internal saphenous, just as that vein is passing through the fascia lata. In a case of obhteration of the vena cava I found these veins very large, and prolonged over the thorax into the axilla, where they anastomosed with the cutaneous M 2