CENTRAL EXTREMITY OF THE PATHETIC NERVE. 1099 :the cerebrum, and which have already been shown to be prolongations of the Hg. 295. fasciculi of reinforcement {faisceaux mnomines) of the meduUa oblongata. The filaments of the nerve traverse these fasciculi in a diverging manner, and descend to a level with the pons, beyond which I have not been able to trace them on account of their slenderness and divergence. I have never observed any of them run- ning towards the corpora albicantia, and reaching the walls of the third ventricle or the anterior commissure as has been stated by some. Nor have I found that they are reinforced, as Gall believed, in the blackish substance (locus niger) which separates the peduncles of the cerebrum, properly so called, from the prolonga- tions of the reinforcing fasciculi of the medulla oblon- gata. Cranial course. Having arisen in this manner, the fibres of the motor oculi nerve converge into a flat bundle which passes between the posterior cerebral and the superior cerebellar arteries, upon which latter it is reflected: on emerging from the interval between these two vessels it becomes rounded, and then, passing up- wards, outwards, and forwards, enters the reticular sub- arachnoid cellular tissue at the base of the brain, and gains the side of the sella turcica (3,^1^. 296.), where it enters a proper sheath formed for it by the dura mater. The Central Extremity of the Pathetic Nerve. The nervi pathetici (^,fig- 276.), nerves of the superior oblique muscle of the eyes, nervi trochleares, the internal and superior oculo-muscidar nerves, or the fourth pair, as they are variously called, are the smallest of the cranial nerves, and are as remarkable for being exclusively distributed to the superior oblique muscle of the eyes, as for their origin and for the length of their course within the cranium. The term patheticus is derived from the opinion that the supe- rior oblique muscle is especially concerned in the expression of love and of compassion. According to Bell, this nerve is the respiratory nerve of the eye. The apparent origin of this (4, fig. 280.) nerve is below the tubercula quadri- gemina, on each side of the valve of Vieussens, sometimes by one, sometimes by two, and even by three or four roots. Occasionally there are several roots on one side, and only a single root on the other. The nerves of the two sides are often united by some white streaks which form a transverse commissure ; at other times they do not arise at the same level. Real origin. It has been supposed that some fibres come from the testes, others from the cerebellum, and that others commence much lower down than the apparent origin : all that can he seen is that these nerves {4,fig. 295.) arise from the valve of Vieussens, to which they adhere so slightly, that the least force is sufiicient to detach them. Cranial course. Immediately after its origin, the pathetic nerve turns for- wards and downwards, around the isthmus of the encephalon, in front of the anterior border of the cerebellum, and thus reaches the base of the cranium (4, fig. 276.) accompanied by the superior cerebellar artery, between the fifth and third cranial nerve, but much nearer to the fifth ; it then passes directly forwards upon the side of the sella turcica (4, _^5f. 296.), and perforates the dura mater, considerably below the third nerve. During its whole course, it is situated between the arachnoid and the pia mater, in the reticular cellular tissue found in this region. Wrisberg says, that the right pathetic nerve is larger than the left. Ruysch states that he found this nerve double, which it is difficult to believe, unless he meant to say that it bifurcated at its origin. Vesalius regarded this nerve as