ANGEIOLOGY. 804 in the diaphragm, ascends upon the right side of the bodies of the thoracic vertebriE, as high as the third intercostal space, i. e. between the third and fourth ribs, where it curves forwards, forming, like the aorta, an arch, which passes over and embraces the right bronchus, and opens into the Fig. 223. U'f;^37fVffil ^^cli of the vena cava superior, as that vein is en- tering the pericardium. During its course the vena azygos is in contact with the vertebral column, and is situated in the posterior mediastinum, on the right side of the aorta and of the thoracic duct (< t), which runs parallel to it; it lies in front of the right inter- costal arteries, and crosses them at right angles. It varies in size, according to the number of branches which it receives, but gradually in- creases from below upwards- The question of the existence of valves in the vena azygos has given rise to much discussion. It appears to me to be settled in the negative. The vena azygos is joined in front by the right bronchial vein and some oesophageal and medias- tinal veins; on the right side by the eight inferior vertebra-costal veins (c c) of that side ; and on the left by the lesser azygos (d) and the common trunk (e) of the left superior intercostal veins. Before opening into the superior vena cava opposite the third intercostal space, the azygos vein receives at its curve, either by a common trunk, or by two or three separate branches, the three superior right vertebro-costal veins, which sometimes enter the right brachio-cephalic vein, and sometimes the vena cava superior, above where it is joined by the vena azygos. In the last case they pass vertically upwards; in the second they are directed almost vertically down- wards. The Semi-azygos. or Lesser Azygos Vein. The lesser azygos vein (dd', azygos minor, semi-azygos) may be regarded as the common trunk of the three, four, or five inferior vertebro- costal veins {cf c') of the left side: it opens into the great azygos vein. It commences below (d') in as many different ways as the great azygos vein, but it communi- cates with the renal vein much more frequently. It runs upwards upon the left of the vertebral column, approaches the median line, and opens into the great azygos at a different height in different subjects. It joins the great azygos either at right angles or oWiquely^ Dassine behind the thoracic duct. The lesser azygos vein may be regarded L tTe^ef branch of origin of the greater azygos : sometimes - extre>ne^ large; in that case the greater azygos is directly contmuous with it, and the %'L're:?rr;g7sTeSis joined by the four or five in^Hor ve^^^^^^^^^^^^^ veins (c' c') of the left side. It also frequently receives the common tnmk ot