THE NERVOUS GANGLIA. 1023 It is orobable that there is not a single muscular fibre which is not thus liehtlv touched by a nervous filament: this anatomical fact may suggest, in- stead of Reil's ingenious hypothesis of an atmosphere of activity around each nervous filament, the important conclusion that the nerves act upon the muscular fibre by the effect of contact* MM Prevost and Dumas believe that the nervous filaments terminate by loops in the substance of muscles; and upon their incomplete observations they have founded a theory of muscular contraction Nervous loops may certainly be observed in the substance of the recti muscles which they selected as examples ; but these loops are not the termination of the nerves, for a num- ber of filaments are seen to issue from them and to be distributed in the man- ner just pointed out.t , » t • , The different organs vary much in regard to the number of nerves which they receive; the organs of the senses—the eyes, the ears, the nasal fossae, the tongue, and the skin, stand first in this respect. Next to these rank the muscles which receive nerves in proportion to the number of their fibres and to their activity. The organs of nutritive life are far removed from the preceding in regard to the quantity of nerves distributed to them. No proper nerves have yet been discovered in cellular tissue, serous membranes, tendons, aponeuroses, and articular cartilages. AU the articulations are provided with nerves, called articular, which may be traced into the ligaments, and even upon the synovial membranes. The long bones in addition to their central or medullary nerve have certain periosteal nerves which are lost in the periosteum, and also proper nerves of the spongy tissue, which enter the foramina at the extremities of these bones. The Nervous Ganglia and the Great Sympathetic System. The nervous ganglia are certain greyish knots or swellings situated along the course of the nerves, and having a rather close resemblance to the lymphatic glands or ganglia. Considered generally, the ganglia are a kind of nervous centres towards which a certain number of filaments converge, and from which they again pass out under new combinations. Hence arose the ingenious idea of Winslow, who compared the ganglia to little brains; an idea which was re- vived under a modified form by Bichat, who made it the basis of his admirable chapter upon the nervous system of organic life. The nervous system of invertebrate animals is reduced to a sei'ies of ganglia and ganglionic nerves: Swammerdam, Haller, and the older anatomists regarded this series of ganglia as a spinal cord enlarged at intervals. But there is no point of comparison between these two parts : in a word, the enlargements of the spinal cord and brain cannot be likened in any respect to the ganglionic enlargements. There are three series, or, as some say, three kinds of ganglia: viz. the spinal or rachidian ganglia; the intercostal ganglia; and the splanchnic ganglia; these last are situated near the viscera for which they are intended. The first series, or the spinal ganglia, belong to the organs of relation. They are constant, regular, and symmetrical, like the nerves upon which they * This hypothesis of a nervous atmosphere was suggested to Reil, by the theory of a. nervous fluid, which he regarded as analogous to and almost identical with the electric fluid ; and also ''^i rS.'"*'^'."'*' nervous apparatus is not able to supply filaments to all the muscular fibres. t [The loops described by Prevost and Dumas seem to have consisted of small nervous cords; but Valentin, Emmert, and Burdach, have observed that the ultimate filaments (pri- mitive fibres of Muller) have a loop-like termination in the muscles. In reference to the nerves of sensation, it has been observed by Valentin and Burdach, that in the frog's skin the primitive fibres end in loops ; this mode of termination has also been seen by Schwann in the tall of the larva ol the toad, and in the frog's mesentery. Schwann further states, that in both these cases the nervou.s fibres gave off exceedingly small fibrils, on which minute swellings (ganglia) were placed, and which in some situations formed a network. In the papilla; of the human skin Breschet thought he saw the nerves ending in loops; and Gherber believes that he has seen these terminal loons In the skin of quadrupeds. Observers differ in their account of the mode of termination of the optic and auditory nerves (see Ohgans ok Sight and Hearing) ] VOL. II. C C