902 NEUROLOGY. auu. upcus separaieiy ai me upper and outer part of the vesti- Dule. Ihe posterior and inner extremity unites with the corresponding ex- tremity of the inferior vertical canal to form a common canal (a, fig 260 ) which opens without any dilatation into the upper and inner part of the ■vestibule {a',fig. 261.). The inferior vertical canal (jj,figs. ^m^^^^^^'^''rr~^ 258, 260.) is placed at right angles to the preceding, and parallel with the posterior surface of the petrous portion. It commences at the inner and upper part of the vestibule, by the common canal (a, fig. 260.) already described, passes almost di- rectly outwards, curves at first down- l^^^^g^^^^I^^ IHll ^^^^p about the distance of a line from the Fig. 261. wards, and then forwards, and be- comes dilated into an ampulla {q', fig. 258.) near the vestibule, into which cavity it opens iq',fig. 259.), point at which it commences. This canal, therefore, describes nearly a complete circle; and hence the term canalis major et longior, still given to it by Soemmerring, in contradistinction to the superior vertical semicircular canal, which he calls minor et brevior. The horizontal canal (o,figs. 258. 260.), canalis minimus, brevissimus, sive ex- terior oi Soemmerring, commences in the vestibule {o',figs. 258,259.) between the fenestra ovalis, which is below, and the ampullar opening of the superior vertical canal, which is above ; it becomes dilated into an ampulla, describes a horizontal curve having its convexity turned outwards, and opens (o', 261.) upon the inner waU of the vestibule, between the common opening (a') of the two ver- tical canals and the proper opening (5') of the inferior vertical canal. It appears, then, that each of the three semicircular canals has one of its ex- tremities dilated into an ampulla, and the other not dilated ; that the two ver- tical canals unite by their non-dilated extremities; that of the five openings belonging to the semicircular canals, two occupy the outer, and three the inner wall of the vestibule, and that the three last consist of the common canal formed by the two vertical canals, by the ampullar extremity of the posterior vertical canal and by the non-ampuEar extremity of the horizontal canal. The cochlea (I, fig- 258.), or snail, so called from its resemblance to the shell of that molluscous animal, may be said to consist of a conoid tube, which is subdivided into two cavities, called scalce, by a septum extending from its base to its apex, and is coiled upon itself into a spiral containing two turns and a half. The cochlea is the most anterior part of the internal ear; it is situated on the inner side, and in front of the tympanum; its base (rf, fig. 260.) rests upon the bottom of the internal auditory meatus.* Its external surface is blended, in the adult, with the substance of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, so that it requires much skill to carve it out with- out breaking into its cavity : in the foetus, on the contrary, such a dissection is extremely easy, on account of the thin layer of spongy osseous tissue by which it is separated from the rest of the bone. * [The summit of the cochlea is directed forwards, downwards, and outwards. The gyri of the cochlea are coiled in a direction from below upwards, and from without inwards.] The Cochlea.