721 THE BRACHIAL ARTERY. The Posterior Circumfiex Artery, The posUrior circnmflex artery (l,fig. 210.) arises from the back of the axillary opposite the sub-scapular, which it sometimes equals in size. It passes horizontally backwards, between the sub-scapularis above and the teres major below, turns inwards round the surgical neck of the humerus, passing first between the internal head of the triceps and the teres minor, then between the longhead of the triceps and the bone, and finally (I, fig. 209.) under the deltoid, to the deep surface of which it is applied ; it always turns round, so as to de- scribe three fourths of a circle, and thus reaches the anterior and outer aspect of the humerus, and is lost in the deltoid by anastomosing with the deltoid branches of the acromio-thoracic artery. In the whole of its course it is ac- companied by the circumflex vein and the circumflex nerve. As it turns round the bone, the posterior circumflex gives off some articular and periosteal branches, which pass to the capsular ligament of the shoulder joint, and to the periosteum of the humerus. TTie Anterior Circumflex Artery. The anterior circumflex, a small artery (n, fig. 210.), sometimes represented by several branches, arises from the axillary in front of the posterior circum- flex, and often by a common trunk with it. It passes horizontally outwards above the conjoined tendons of the latissimus dorsi and teres major covered by the coraco-brachialis and the short head of the biceps, runs beneath the tendon of the long head of the biceps, turns round the neck of the humerus, crosses the bicipital groove at right angles, being held down by the synovial membrane, and divides into an ascending and a descending branch. The latter presents nothing remarkable ; but the ascending branch, having reached the upper part of the groove, anastomoses with the osseous branch of the acromial artery, and is lost in the head of the humerus, which it penetrates at one or more points. The anterior circumflex is therefore intended for the humerus, its periosteum, and the synovial membrane of the groove. Sometimes there are several anterior circumflex arteries, which enter the substance of the del- toid muscle. The Brachial Artery. The brachial or humeral artery (a' h,fi^. 210.), is that portion of the artery of the upper extremity which extends from the lower border of the axiUa to the point of its bifurcation at the upper part of the fore-arm. It passes down- wards, and a little forwards and outwards, so that it is situated on the inner side of the humerus above, and in front of it below. The absence of any bendings in this artery explains the possibility of its being torn from extreme extension of the fore-arm in dislocations of the elbow, &c. The relations of the brachial artery require to be examined separately along the arm, and m front of the elbow joint. Along the arm, the artery is in relation, in front, with the coraco-brachialis and the inner margm of the biceps, which may be regarded as the sateUite muscle of the artery: m emaciated subjects the biceps does not cover the ar- tery, which IS then situated immediately under the fascia; behind, it is in re- lation with the triceps, and then with the brachiaUs anticus; on the inner side with the fascia of the arm, which separates it from the skin; on the outer side with the coraco-brachiahs, then with the inner side of the humerus, from' which It IS separated by the tendon of the coraco-brachialis, and in the rest of Its extent with the cellular interval between the biceps and the brachialis an- ticus. The brachial artery is inclosed in a fibrous sheath, which is common to It and the median nerve. The following are its relations with the veins and nerves: the principal brachial vein is situated on its inner side, another Sler G 2