960 NEUROLOGY. Opposite the upper angle of its rhomboidal cavity, the fourth ventncle (tr, fy. 282.) becomes continuous with the third (Z), through a canal, named iter a terlio ad quarlum ventriculum, or the aqueduct of Sylvius, which, however, had been described by Galen: this aqueduct is formed beneath the tubercula quadrigemina (/jr) and the valve of Vieussens (g w). The lateral angles of the fourth ventricle are much elongated, and reach as far as opposite the inner extremity of the corpus dentatum of the cerebellum. At the inferior angle (if) of the fourth ventricle is situated a fibrous layer, which constitutes its floor, and also an orifice of communication between the ventricle and the sub-arachnoid space. The Fibrous Layers of the Fourth Ventricle. Floor of the fourth ventricle. On carefully drawing the medulla oblongata away from the cerebellum, a fibrous layer is seen extending from one to the other, and forming as it were the floor of the fourth ventricle. This layer, which is continuous with the neurilemma of the medulla oblongata, consists of three very distinct parts ; of a median portion, shaped like a triangular tongue, which passes horizontally backwards, and is applied to the anterior extremity of the inferior vermis, to which it adheres, and of two triangular lateral por- tions, which form the sides of the orifice of the fourth ventricle, and which were described by Tarin as the valves of the base of the fourth ventricle. Besides this fibrous layer there is another on each side, situated behind the roots of the pneumogastric nerve : these layers adhere to those roots, and we shall, therefore, name them the fibrous layers of the pneumogastric nerves; they close the fourth ventricle upon the sides of the medulla oblongata, and when they are removed, the ventricle is quite open. They extend from the restiform bodies to the lobules of the pneumogastric nerves, and are prolonged upwards upon the auditory nerves. The Inferior Orifice of the Fourth Ventricle. If the medulla oblongata and cerebellum be drawn apart, there is seen, in the median line, between the inferior cerebellar arteries, a lozenge-shaped opening (at y, fig. 282.), bounded, in front, by the base of the calamus scrip- torius °behind, by the anterior prolongation of the inferior vermiform process, which is covered by the median tongue of the fibrous layer; and upon the sides, in front, by the ragged edges of the lateral portions of the fibrous layer, and by the internal surfaces of the lobules of the medulla oblongata. This opening was pointed out by M. Magendie as establishing a commu- nication between the general ventricular cavity and the sub-arachnoid space. It has been asked. Is it a natural opening, or is it produced accidentally by the very means employed in its demonstration ? The following are the arguments on both sides of the question: — . ■ . j i. In opposition to the existence of an opening in this situation it is urged, that the margin of the orifice has none of the characters of that of a natural opening, the edges of which are generally smooth and rounded ; but in this orifice they are lacerated, and there is almost always some membranous shreds at the point of the calamus scriptorius. If the median triangular tongue of the fibrous layer which is applied to the inferior vermis, be detached, it is seen to be merely a flap of that membrane, the size of which exactly corresponds to that of the opening, so as to close it completely. This point may be rendered still more evident by tracing the membrane from before backwards, after having divided the pons and medulla oblongata. pcrHons of the lobes of the medulla oblongata (see p. 958.).]