GENERAL IDEA OF THE BRAIN. 1009 B B 2 connected with the cerebrum by the radiating fibres which emerge from its upper circumference near the corpus callosum. ■ The optic thalamus and its fasciculus of origin present no trace of a linear structure Nor can we discover in it the concentric layers admitted by Herbert Mayo With a little attention, certain extremely delicate white fila- ments are seen in the optic thalamus, which cannot be separated on account of their tenuity and the adhesion of the surrounding tissue to them. It the term ganglion be applicable to any part of the cerebrum, it certainly is so to the optic thalamus; for a nervous ganglion is nothing more than a peculiar apparatus in which nervous filaments become separated and spread out, m order to enter into new combinations. We must agree with ReU and liede- mann in regarding the optic thalami as appendages of the cerebral peduncles: Tiedemann calls them the enlargements of the cerebral peduncles. 7. The essential points to be made out in the structure of the cerebrum are the ultimate course of the fibres radiating from the optic thalami and corpora striata, and the relations of those fibres with the convolutions of the brain and the corpus callosum. I by no means agree with Reil in thinking that we must not attach so much importance to the continuity of fibres in the cerebrum, and that their contiguity is a sufficient guide to its anatomy : on the contrary, I regard the determination of their continuity as the key to the structure of this organ. 8. There is no median raphe in the corpus callosum: the right half of its transverse fasciculi being continued into the left half without any line of de- marcation. 9. It appears, at first sight, that the fibres of the corpus callosum (e cif /, fig. 284.), and the white radiating fibres (A), which emerge from the optic thalami and corpora striata, decussate (as at g) ; but on separating the fibres of the cerebrum, either after it has been hardened in alcohol or by the action of a stream of water, it is most distinctly shown that these two sets of fibres are continuous. 10. Again : the continuity of the fibres of the corpus callosum with those of the hemispheres is no less evident; the middle fibres (s, fig. 283.) of the hemispheres are seen to pass transversely inwards, the anterior fibres (a p) backwards, the posterior fibres (s) forwards, and the inferior fibres to bend and turn upwards to become continuous with the corpus callosum. I have in vain endeavoured to determine by actual dissection whether there is a decussation of the fibres of the corpus callosum itself; I still entertain many doubts regarding this subject; we shall presently find, when speaking of the developement of the brain, that the corpus callosum does not appear until after the hemispheres; and that comparative anatomy, by showing that the corpus callosum does not exist in the three lower classes of vertebrate animals, is opposed to the idea that the hemispheres are composed of certain fibres which decussate in the corpus callosum. 11. The doctrine of converging and diverging fibres, advanced by Gall and Reil * cannot explain the continuity of the fibres of the corpus callosum with the radiating fibres of the corpora striata and optic thalami. Tiedemann, from his researches into the anatomy of the foetal brain, states that the corpus callosum is formed by the reunion of the fibres of the cerebral peduncles after they have expanded to form the hemispheres. He says that he has traced the fibres of the peduncles as far as the median line of the corpus callosum, where those of one side unite and are blended with those of the other ; but a careful examination of the cerebrum, either by means of a stream of water, or by hardening it, shows that the fibres of the corpus callosum ter- * The following is Reil's statement on this subject: — " Both of these two systems of fibres «pread out into rays and meet each other; the cerebral peduncles ascend from below, and ex- pand into the form of an inverted cone ; the system of the corpus callosum, on the contrary S°"l,ol >™''".^ '"T"* insinuate themselves between the preceding ones (seeff /g. 284.), and form, as It were, the lid of the cup. * o k-^^ b<