NEUROLOGY. 1122 fig- 301.), which turn round the border ol the tongue, pass forwards and upwards, perforate the muscles of that organ, and spread out into pencils, the filaments of which may be traced into the papillae of the mucous membrane. The nerve, reduced to a single filament, terminates at the point of the tongue. The Inferior Dental Nerve. The inferior dental nerve (m,fig. 298.), larger* than the lingual, descends with it, at first between the two pterygoid muscles, and then between the internal pterygoid and the ramus of the lower jaw : in this situation it is kept in contact with the bone by a layer of fibrous tissue, which is improperly called the internal ligament of the temporo-maxillary articulation, and which separates the nerve from the lingual nerve and the internal pterygoid muscle ; it soon enters the dental canal, which it traverses (m) throughout its entire extent, accompanied by the inferior dental artery, and protected by a fibrous canal; during its course it supplies the molar and the bicuspid teeth, giving a twig to each prong, and having reached the mental foramen, divides into a mental and an incisor branch. TJte myloid branch. As it enters the inferior dental canal, the nerve gives off a small branch, the myloid branch (z, fig. 300.), which arises from its pos- terior border, opposite the corresponding artery, is received into a furrow upon the inner surface of the ramus of the jaw, against which it is retained by a layer of fibrous tissue, and then, emerging from this furrow, passes upon the upper surface of the mylo-hyoid muscle, in which it ramifies. A great number of filaments from the myloid nerve enter the anterior belly of the digastric muscle, f The mental branch (t, fig. 285.), the continuation of the inferior dental nerve, as far as size is concerned, passes through the mental foramen, and expands into diverging filaments, which are distributed in reference to the lower lip in the same way as the infra-orbital branch is to the upper lip. These filaments interlace with the facial nerve, and form with it a sort of mental plexus; they are intended for the skin and the mucous membrane of the lower lip : most of them pass to the free border of that lip. The incisor dental branch, which is extremely small, continues in the original course of the inferior dental nerve, and subdivides to supply the canine and two corresponding incisor teeth. The inferior dental nerve represents in the lower jaw the infra-orbital portion of the superior maxillary nerve in the upper jaw. The Otic Ganglion. I cannot terminate the ■description of the inferior maxillary nerve, without noticing a ganglion recently described by Arnold, under the name of the otic ganglion, which he compares to the ophthaknic ganglion, and which has served him as the basis of an ingenious theory respecting the nerves of the head. The following is the position of the ganglion, as indicated by Arnold: " The otic ganglion is situated (behind I, fig. 299.) immediately below the foramen ovale, on the inner side of the third or inferior maxillary division (c) of the fifth nerve, a little above the origin of the superficial temporal or auricular nerve (auriculo-temporal), at the spot where the inferior maxiUary nerve gives o£f from its external surface the deep temporal and buccal nerves, and where the small root of the fifth unites intimately with the large root. On the inner side this ganglion is covered by the cartilaginous portion of the Eustachian tube and by the origin of the external peristaphyline {circumfiexus palati) mu=cle • behind, it is in contact with the middle meningeal artery. Its ex- ternal surface rests upon the inner side of the inferior maxillary nerve." • I have observed that this nerve was much smaller in old than in young subjects. + rViKmrats are also Kiven to the sub-maxillary gland; according to Ellis, some br.inchfs pats^Srough thrmylo-^/old muscle and enter tl.e genio-hyoid; and it is stated by AU-ock tliat a brani-h reaches tlie depressor labn inferioris.J