THE DEEP FEMORAL ARTERY. 747 into a canal, and is distributed to the synovial membrane, the adipose tissue, and the fibrous capsule of the joint: one or more anastomotic branches com- municate freely -with the ramifications of the obturator artery ; lastly, a great number of muscular branches, some of which are very small, and pass in front of, -while others which are larger run behind, the pectineus, and are distributed to'the obturator externus, the pectineus, and the adductors : the largest is in- tended for the adductor magnus. , , , The terminal branches are as follows :—ascending muscular branches, some of which are external, and ramify in the glutaius maximus, whilst others are in- ternal, and are distributed to the ischiatic attachments of the biceps, semi-ten- dinosus, and semi-membranosus muscles ; descending muscular branches, which ramify upon the anterior surface of the biceps, semi-tendinosus, and semi-mem- branosus, upon the great sciatic nerve, and also in the small muscles situated between the pelvis and the trochanter major ; periosteal branches, of which some 'ramify upon the periosteum of the trochanter, others upon the posterior surface of the neck of the femur ; and, lastly, anastomotic branches, which pass upon the obturator, gemelli, and pyriformis muscles, and anastomose freely with the sciatic, glutaeal, internal pudic, and obturator arteries, but especially with the sciatic and the obturator. It follows, then, that the internal circumflex is an important means of com- munication between the internal iliac, and consequently the common iliac and the femoral; for independently of the direct anastomoses above mentioned, there are a great number of indirect communications in the substance of the muscles and upon the periosteum. The external or anterior circumflex (/), smaller than the intenial, sometimes arises directly from the femoral; it is often given off from the profunda by a common trunk with the great muscular artery of the triceps, and it may then be regarded as formed by the bifurcation of the profunda ; it passes horizontally behind the rectus femoris, crossing in front of the psoas and iliacus, to which it gives a rather large vessel, and then divides into two branches—an ascending muscular, which is distributed to the glutseus minimus and to the tensor vaginae femoris; and a circumflex branch, properly so called, which turns round the base of the great trochanter if, fig. 21.5.), dips into the substance of the triceps, and expands into a great number of ascending branches, which anastomose with the internal circumflex upon the outer surface of the great trochanter. Not un- frequently an anastomosis is formed in front by a transverse branch between the internal and external circumflex arteries, by which the arterial circle of the hip joint is completed. The perforating arteries (r r, fig. 214.) are both muscular and cutaneous, and are intended for the posterior region of the thigh; they vary in number from one to four, and are aH distributed in a similar manner. They perforate the tendinous attachments of the adductor muscles to the femur, and having reached the back of the thigh, they turn horizontally round the bone, and divide into ascending and descending branches, which form a series of loops or anastomotic arches in the substance of the muscles ; these loops acquire a great size in cases where the femoral has been tied after Hunter's method, L e. in the middle third of the thigh. The first perforating artery (r,fig. 215.), which is the largest, and sometimes represents two, or even the whole of the perforating arteries, passes through the great adductor about one inch below the lesser trochanter, between the horizontal and oblique fibres of the muscle ; its ascending branch (s) turns round the great trochanter, and anastomoses with the internal circumflex and sciatic in the substance of the gluta2us maximus; its descending branch (Z) is distributed to the vastus externus, the semi-tendinosus, semi-membranosus, biceps, and adductor magnus muscles. Some branches ramify upon the great sciatic nerve.* arte^'"' P""'^'P*' nutritious artery of the femur arises from tlic first or second perforating