909 THE DURA MATER. subject has lately been embarrassed, should constitute the special aim of every inquiry into the anatomy of this part of the nervous system. The central portion of the nervous system consists, 1. of the spinal cord; 2. of the tuber annulare, the peduncles of the cerebrum and cerebellum, and the iu- b'ercula quadrigemina; these together constitute a very constricted portion, -which forms the bond of union beween the other parts of the encephalon, and which I shall accordingly name le noeud de Vencephale * ; 3. of the cerebellum; 4. of tll6 CSVcbviLtflt The cerebro-spinal axis is surrounded by three membranes or coverings, called the meninges (from fj.'hviyl, a membrane), which perform some im- portant functions in regard to it, and which must in the first place occupy our attention. THE MEMBRANES OF THE CEREBRO-SPINAL AXIS. General remarks. — The Dura Mater — the cranial portion, its structure and ■uses the spinal portion. — The Arachnoid — its cranial portion — its spinal portion—the sub-arachnoid fluid — their uses.— The Pia Mater — its ex- ternal cerebral portion. But few parts of the body are so effectually protected as the cerebro-spinal axis; this protection is afforded in part by the vertebral column f, and by the cranium, the mechanism of which we have already described as being so eminently calculated to defend the parts situated within them. Besides the osseous case formed by the vertebro-cranial column, we find, surrounding the cerebro-spinal axis, a fibrous sheath, named the dura mater; a serous membrane, called the arachnoid; and a proper membrane, named the pia mater, in which the vessels of the nervous centre ramify. The Dura Matek-J Dissection of the dura mater of the skull. Make either a crucial incision, or one extending from before backwards, or from ear to ear, through the in- teguments of the head; turn back the flaps, taking care to remove the peri- osteum with the hairy scalp. The bones of the cranium being thus exposed, the skull-cap may be re- moved, either with a sort of hatchet (jnarteau-hachette), or a saw. This hatchet is the most expeditious and the best instrument. There is no fear of shaking or lacerating the brain if the instrument be properly used; but it is almost impossible to avoid cutting the brain with the saw, the only advantage of which over the other is, that it makes an even section. The section should be carried quite roimd the cranium, about a finger's breadth above the orbital arches, the skull-cap being raised and removed by means of the narrow end of the hatchet, or by means of a hook attached to the extremity of its handle. If the brain is not to be preserved, a somewhat different method of pro- ceeding IS adopted. Two parallel cuts must be made with the saw, one on each side of the superior longitudinal sinus along its whole extent. Each of these cuts should then be met by another carried horizontally through the corresponding side of the skulL When the two portions of bone included between these sections are removed, there remains an intermediate portion of bone, about an inch wide, extending from the nasal eminence to the occipital .il'^'i'J^"''™""''"'"'',''^!.,'" mind that the equivalent term,nodus encephali, has been as- Blftncd by Socmmerring to the pons Varolii ] ' r ' defined to bo an animal provided with an encephalon : an invertebratcd animal is one having no encephalon. , t The application of the term mater to the meninges of the brain is derived from the Arabians, who regarded these membranes as the origin or mothers of all the other parts of the bv^iii.i!: Fr''"'''' "f'" 'l^^"•'8P,rved, this use of the term depends upon an Arabic idiom by which the covering of any body whatsoever is called Its mother. '