DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY. ANGEIOLOGY. Definition and objects of Angeiology. Angeioloot (hyyuoo, a vessel) is that division of anatomy which treats of the oreans of the circulation, . The circulating system consists of a central organ, the heart, the agent for propeUing the blood ; of the arteries, vessels through which the blood is con- veyed from the heart to all parts of the body; of the veins, through which the blood is returned from all parts of the body to the heart agam; and lastly of the lymphatic vessels, appendages of the venous system, into which their contents are ultimately poured. THE HEART. General description.—External and internal conformation. —Structure.— Developement.—Functions. — The pericardium. Dissection. In order to study the external conformation of the heart, inject the cavities of the right side of that organ by the pulmonary artery, or by one of the venffi cavae, taking care to tie the other; the cavities of the left side may be filled from the aorta, or one of the pulmonary veins. Tallow, wax, and glue-size are the most suitable materials for this purpose. The heart (/copSia), the central part of the circulating apparatus, is a hollow muscular organ divided into several compartments, and intended for propelling through the arteries into all parts of the body, the blood which is poured into it from the veins. The heart is one of the most important organs in the body. In a zoolo- gical point of view, the presence or absence of a heart, and the complexity or simplicity of its structure deserve particular attention, because such variations ,in regard to the central organ of the circulation are accompanied by very great modifications in the entire organism.* Congenital absence of the heart is extremely rare, and is always accom- panied with other malformations, more especially with absence of the brain. These deficiencies are incompatible with life. Number. Man and vertebrated animals have only one heart; in mollusca * Vertebrata and mollusca are the only animals which are provided with a heart. Mammalia and birds alone possess a double heart, i. e. a heart with two auricles, and two ventricles. Fishes and reptiles have a simple heart, i. c. a heart with only one auricle and one ventricle, this ventricle being pulmonary in fishes, and both systemic and pulmonary in reptiles.f t [A central pulsating vessel is found in some of the higher radiata, and in the articulata; in some of the latter it constitutes a strong muscular ventricle, but the addition of a systemic auricle to this ventricle is first observed in the mollusca; in the invertebrata generally the ven- tricle is entirely systemic: in the higher cephalopods there arc two branchial hearts. In fishes the heart consists of a systemic auricle, and a pulmonary ventricle, and is preceded by a sinus venosus, and followed by a bulbus arteriosus. In the early condition of the batrachia the same conformation exists ; but in their adult state, and also in all reptilia, there are two auricles and one ventricle, the additional auricle being pulmonary, t. e. receiving the blood from the lungs. In the higher reptilia the single ventricle, which is both systemic and pulmonary, is divided by an imperfect septum ascending from the .ipex of the heart. In the crocodilus lucius, as well as in birds and mammalia, this interventricular septum is complete, so that in them the heart js divided into two auricles and two ventricles, the cavities of one side being systemic, and of the other pulmonary.] vol.. ir. n