ANGEIOLOGY. 770 the anterior jugular (,«). The two latter veins form part of the superficial or he common carotid artery and its branches. I shall describe these threeVeins n succession, but shaUnot notice the veins Teith which they are directly con!' rrt""'^I'^^'^K ^""T^^^ of origin, until I have desUed all th'ree of them, because those branches terminate almost indiflFerently in either of them. The External Jugular Vein. The external jugular Qi), one of the supplementary veins of the internal jn- fi^. 219. gular, is a subcutaneous vein of the neck, on the lateral and anterior aspect of which it is situated. It is bounded above by the angle of the lower jaw according to some authors, by the neck of the condj le of that bone according to others : the former mode of limitation seems to me to be preferable. It is bounded below by the clavicle, behind which it ends in the subclavian vein (o), immediately to the outer side of the in- ternal jugular, and sometimes even op- posite that vein, but upon a plane an- terior to it. The external jugular is generally single, but is sometimes double ; and this depends either upon some of its branches of origin not joining it until they reach the lower part of the neck, or else upon the existence of a small collateral branch, which arises from the upper part of the ex/crna/jugular, runs along its outer side, and opens into it below, immediately be- fore its termination ; at other times the external jugular bifurcates before it ends in the subclavian. The external jugular varies extremely in size, which frequently differs on the two sides, and is not uniform throughout its whole length. Thus, it almost always presents an ampulla, or ovoid dilatation of variable dimensions near its termination. In size it is inversely as that of the other jugular veins of the same and the opposite side, and its differences are either congenital or acquired; the former depending upon the fact of its receiving more or fewer branches, whilst acquired alterations in size are occasioned either by some occupation requiring violent respiratory efforts, or by the venous circulation being im- peded by disease. Direction. The external jugular vein passes obliquely downwards and backwards in the opposite direction to the sterno-cleido-maStoideus, which it crosses at a very acute angle, and then runs parallel to the posterior border oi that muscle. A line drawn from the angle of the jaw to the middle of the clavicle will exactly indicate its direction. Opposite the clavicle, the external jugular vein turns forwards and opens into the subclavian, either directly, or after running horizontally for some lines. Relations. The external jugular vein runs first across the sterno-mastoid, and then the supra-clavicular region of the neck. In the whole of its extent it is covered and separated from the skin by the platysma; hence the rule to open this vein across the fibres of the platysma, when it is desirable that the orifice should be free, and favourably disposed for the flow of blood. By its deep surface it is in relation with the sterno-mastoid, which it crosses ob- liquely, so that it rests above upon the anterior border of that muscle, and, below,