THE HEART. 641 B 2 to the left side and from behind forwards. This direction, which is peculiar to the human species (for in the lower animals the heart is vertical), appears to have some relation to the erect position. The heart is not symmetrical in reference to the median line of the body, nor yet in regard to its own axis. The heart is divided into ventricles and auricles. The ventricles (/ o, figs. 191 192 ) constitute the chief part, in some measure the body of the organ, the'conical form of which is determined by them; the auricles (m w) are a kind of appendices, which can be well seen only when the heart is raised ; they occupy the base of the organ; the limit between the auricles and the ven- tricles is indicated by a circular furrow. External Confoemation of the Heart. The External Surface of the Ventricles. The external surface of the ventricles, or the ventricular portion of the heart, called also by the ancients the arterial portion, because the arteries arise from it, presents for our consideration an anterior and an inferior surface, a right and a left border, a base and an apex. The anUrior or sternal surface {fig. 191.) is convex, and is divided into two „. J unequal parts, a larger on the right, and a smaller ■ on the left side, by the anterior furrow of the heart (e 6), which passes vertically from the base to- wards the apex, is occupied by the anterior co- ronary artery, and is often obscured by fat. All that part of the organ which is to the right of -n the furrow belongs to the right ventricle (T), all on the left belongs to the left ventricle (o). The furrow itself corresponds to the septiun between the ventricles. This surface, or rather the pericardium which covers it, is in relation with the sternum, more especially in that part which lies to the right of the fiirrow; also with the costal cartilages of the left side, and with the lungs, which cover it more or less completely. It should be remarked that, in large hearts, this surface, or its pericardium, corresponds immediately to the sternum, while in the natural state it is situated at some distance from that bone. The relations of the heart with the anterior wall of the thorax enable us to examine its condition by means of percussion and auscultation. The inferior or diaphragmatic surface (fig. 192.) is plane and horizontal; it rests upon the diaphragm, which forms a sort of floor for it, and separates it from the liver and the stomach. Like the anterior surface it is marked by a longitudinal furrow, the posterior furrow of the heart (e 6), which is traversed by vessels, and concealed by fat. It difiers from the anterior furrow in running parallel to the axis of the heart, and dividing its diaphragmatic surface into two nearly equal parts, excepting near the apex. In consequence of the rela- tions of this surface, pulsations are observed in the epigastrium, which are sometimes much more distinct than those felt upon the anterior wall of the thorax. Another result of these relations is, that the same meaning is at- tached to the terms scrobiculus cordis and pit of the stomach, and also to the expressions pain at the heart, pain at the stomach, Sfc. The right or lower border is thin and horizontal, and rests upon the dia- phragm ; it is straight near the apex, but becomes convex towards the base. The left border (o b,fig. 191.) is very thick, convex, and almost vertical; it resembles a surface rather than a border, and corresponds to the left lung, which is deeply notched to receive it.