LATERAL SURFACE OF THE MEDULLA OBLONGATA. 939 fourth ventricle, also called the ventricle of Arantius. According to some authors, at the point of the calamus is situated the upper orifice of a canal, which runs through the whole length of the spinal cord; such a canal how- ever does not exist, but is in fact produced by the means employed to demon- strate it, for example, by insufflation, by the introduction of a probe, or by the weight of a column of mercury. A slight V-shaped deposit of corneous matter is constantly found inserted within the correspondingly shaped bifurcation of the columns of the cord: between the branches of the V is found the pro- longation of grey substance, which is continuous with the grey matter of the cord. The medullary columns which immediately bound the calamus on each side, and which result from the separation of the elements of the cord, are formed by the posterior median columns {e,fig. 269. B C, and fig. 271.), already de- scribed, which become slightly enlarged where they separate from each other, so as to form a mammillary projection, and then terminate insensibly upon the back of the restiform bodies: we shall call the upper part of these columns the mammillary enlargements of the posterior median columns, and not " posterior pyramids."* On the outer side of these mammillary enlargements are found the restiform bodies (d,fig. 269. C ; fig. 271.), which, as we shall afterwards describe, pass to the cerebellimi, and may be said to form its root; they are also called the inferior peduncles of the cerebellum,, or processus a cerebello ad medullam oblongatam. Ridley named them the restiform bodies, or cord-like processes; and others again call them the posterior pyramids. Fig. 272, The Lateral Surface of the Medulla. Oblongata. These present (^fig. 272.), in front, the olivary bodies (c), which we have al- ready seen upon the anterior surface. Behind them are the restiform bodies (d) ; and lastly, about three lines below the lower extremity of each olivary body, is found an oblong projection, the colour of which is intermedi- ate between that of the white and that of the grey sub- stance : this projection is continuous with the grey matter of the furrow, from which the posterior roots of the spinal nerves arise ; and Rolando, who first directed attention to it, has named it the ash-coloured tubercule (tuberculo cinereo). The arched fibres, or processus arciformes (e, fig. 270.), pointed out by Santorini, and still better described by Rolando, are principally found upon the lateral surfaces of the medulla oblongata; they consist of filaments of medullary substance, which vary exceedingly in number and arrangement; they appear to arise from the anterior median furrow of the medulla oblongata, to turn like a girdle around the pyramidal and olivary bodies, and having reached the restiform bodies, to pass obliquely upwards and outwards to terminate upon the sides of the restiform bodies. These arched fibres sometimes seem to be entirely wtmting; at other times they are collected on each side into two bundles; one superior, which turns round the anterior pyramid, as that body IS about to enter the pons; the other inferior, which covers and circum- scribes the lower extremity of the olivary body. Lastly, the pyramidal and olivary bodies are not unfrequently found to be completely and regularly co- vered by a thin layer of circular fibres : it will be presently shownfthat ihese fibres dip into the anterior median furrow of the medulla oblongata, and reach as far as the posterior median furrow, f .mimUtsT'"''°'''''°'' ™hdess applied to those bodic. by ,nany n,n<,crn t Ought we to regard as a part of this system of arched fil.res, a small slender cord « l,ich