NEUROLOGY, 1074 great number of filaments, of which one anastomoses with the preceding branch (n), another joins the obturator nerve (at m), and a third unites with the internal saphenous nerve; a sort of plexus is thus formed which gives origin to several nerves that cross obliquely over the gracilis to be distributed to the skin upon the posterior region of the leg. The Small Nerve for the Sheath of the Femoral Vessels. This branch, which often comes off separately from the lumbar plexus, is situated, like the musculo-cutaneous, in front of the other branches of the crural nerve ; it then expands into a great number of very slender filaments which surround the femoral artery and vein. Two of these filaments, of which one passes in front of and the other behind the femoral artery, unite to form a small nerve (.p,fig. 291, 292.) that escapes by the opening {p) for the internal saphenous vein, and accompanies the vein for a great part of its course. Not uiifrequently, the filaments which have passed between the artery and vein perforate a lymphatic ganglion. Two other filaments are distributed to the adductor brevis and adductor longus; several of them turn round the deep femoral artery and vein, to become subcutaneous, and anastomose with other accompanying branches of the femoral vessels, and more particularly with the internal saphenous nerve. This small branch presents many varieties. I have seen it arise separately from the fourth lumbar nerve, and it then runs along the anterior sui-face of the crural nerve. The Nerve for the Rectus Femoris. The nerve for the recltis femoris ai'ises on the inner side of the preceding, enters the upper part of the deep surface of the muscle, and divides into a superior or short branch, which passes horizontally outwards in the substance of the muscle, and an inferior or long branch, which lies in contact with its inner border and enters the muscle at the middle of the thigh. The Nerve for the Vastus Externus. The nerve for the vastus externus sometimes arises by a common trunk with the preceding, passes obliquely downwards and outwards beneath the rectus, to which it gives a filament, and then divides into two branches: one of these im- mediately enters the upper part of the vastus externus, and gives off, before penetrating it, a cutaneous branch which, perforates the fascia lata and lies in contact with the skin of the external region of the thigh : the other is longer, dips between the vastus externus and internus, and enters the middle of the former muscle. This last branch almost always gives off a small twig to the vastus internus. TTie Nerves for the Vastus Internus.* These are two in number; the one is external, and descending vertically, enters that portion of the vastus internus which corresponds to the anterior surface of the femur (the crureus of authors), and may be traced as far as the lower part of the muscle: this nerve furnishes several periosteal and ar- ticular filaments; the other is internal and much larger; it often arises by a common trunk with the internal saphenous nerve, runs vertically downwards in front of the vastus internus, parallel to and on the outer side of the femoral artery being in contact with that vessel above, but separated from it below, whereit enters the vastus internus. Before penetrating it, it gives off a very remarkable articular aai periosteal branch, which runs along the surface of the * It will be remembered that, according to my views, the portion of the triceps which is called the crureuViB not distinct from the vastus Internus (see Myology).