NEUROLOGY. 896 wards ; hence the facility with which the mucus of the tympanum flows into the back of the throat. The Eustachian tube consists of an osseous portion and of a cartilaginous and fibrous portion. The osseous portion, which is about seven or eight lines in length, is situated at the retreating angle formed between the squamous and petrous portions of the temporal bone. A triangular cartilaginous plate, formed into a groove, constitutes the inner half of the tube : a fibrous layer, which is at first applied against the circum- flexus palati muscle, and is then lodged in the groove between the petrous portion of the temporal bone and the posterior border of the sphenoid, forms the external wall of the canal, which is habitually collapsed. The base of the triangular cartilage, which forms the guttural orifice of the tube, is notched in the middle, and terminates in two thickened elongated angles; of these the posterior one, which is more distinct, is moveable, and may be pushed up- wards and backwai'ds. The anterior angle is firmly fixed to the posterior margin of the pterygoid process. As catheterism and injection of the Eusta- chian tube have become common operations in treating diseases of the ear, it is of importance to define the exact position of its guttural orifice ; it is situated (m, fig. 234.) upon the side of the pharynx, immediately behind, and a little above the inferior turbinated bone. The mucous membrane which lines the Eustachian tube is thin, but at the mouth of the tube it assumes the characters of the mucous membrane of the pharynx and of the pituitary membrane, with both of which it is continuous ; it is also continuous with the mucous membrane of the tympanum: hence the close sympathy which exists between the lining membrane of these several parts.* The use of the Eustachian tube is to renew the air contained within the tym- panum ; but it also gives exit to the mucous secretion of that cavity.f Besides the orifice of the Eustachian tube, and that of the canal for the in- ternal muscle of the malleus, the anterior funnel-shaped part of the circum- ference of the tympanum presents two orifices placed one above the other : the uppermost of these is the internal orifice of the canal for the chorda tympani nerve ; the lower one is an oblique fissure, which transmits a fibrous cord called the anterior muscle of the malleus. M. Huguier has shown me a number of preparations in which the chorda tympani nerve does not escape through the fissure of Glasserius, but runs in a very narrow special canal, about five or six lines in length, which is situated on the inner side of the Glasserian fissure, and opens at the base of the skull in the retreating angle formed between the squa- mous and petrous portions of the temporal bone, upon the outer side of the Eustachian tube, behind the spinous process of the sphenoid, and sometimes upon that bone itself. The fissure of Glasserius, then, merely transmits a fibrous bundle, named the anterior muscle of the malleus, and some small arteries and veins. We may now describe the course of the chorda tympani nerve. In its course this nerve passes through two canals, entering the tympanum by one and escaping from it by the other. The canal by which it enters commences at the vertical portion of the aqueduct of FaUopius, in which the facial nerve is situated, passes upwards and forwards, and opens inimediately on the inner side of the posterior margin of the membrana tympani, on a level with the horizontal diameter of that membrane, and abnost in the groove mto which it is inserted. Having entered the tympanum through this canal, the * rAccordine to Dr. Henle, the mucous membrane of the Eustachian tube, like that of the upper pa^of the pharynx, is covered with a columnar ciliated epithehum; but m the tjin- r,-in,ini and mastoid cclls the epithelium is squamous, and not ciliated.J P^ VThrFustlchi^M t he by establishing a communication between the tympanum and the external ai^ ensuJe .arequ^^^ on the two surfaces of the membrana tyn - Tani so that the necessa?y conditio^, of thk membrane, and of the oss.cula aud.tf.s, as con- ductors of vibrations, is not interfered with.]