958 NEUROLOGY. and are attached to the rest of the cerebellum by their adherent borders only The lamelliE, however, are arranged in a different manner, for they pass from one lamina to another, and even from segment to segment. In fact, if the segments of the cerebellum be drawn asunder, the furrows between them are seen to be traversed obliquely by a great number of lamellae, which extend from one segment to another. The arrangement of the segments, laminae, and lamellae in the median line deserves particular attention. Opposite the superior vermiform process, they are not interrupted, but are merely bent slightly, so that the middle portion of each of the anterior segments is, as it were, drawn forwards, so as to describe a curve, having its concavity turned backwards. Upon this surface some slight peculiarities are observed in the arrangement of the parts. Along the median line there seems, indeed, to be an interchange of laminae and lamella;, some of each of which become thin, and end in points from which others appear to originate. Opposite the inferior vermiform process the two hemispheres of the cerebellum are connected together by means of the lateral prolongations of that process. But in front, i. e. opposite the medulla oblongata, the two hemispheres of the cerebellum are perfectly distinct from each other (see fig. 275.). From these facts we may estimate to what extent the comparison is correct, which was drawn by Haller between the superior vermiform process and the corpus cal- losum. At the back part of the cerebellum, opposite the notch in that gituation, the two hemispheres are connected by means of certain small transverse rings, of which we have already spoken. The superior and inferior vermiform processes and the portion situated at the bottom of the notch constitute together the middle lobe of the cerebellum, which Gall and Spurzheim named the primitive or fundamental part of the cere- bellum, because it exists in aU vertebrata, and because in a great number of them (as in birds, reptiles, and fishes), where the lateral lobes of this organ are altogether wanting, it constitutes the entire cerebellum. It is well to add, that the lateral lobes are relatively larger, and the median lobe smaller in man than in other mammalia. A rudimentary median lobe and very large lateral lobes are the character- istics of the human cerebellum, whilst a very large median lobe and rudi- mentary lateral lobes form the characters of the cerebellum of the lower ani- mals. All the segments of the cerebellum, of which there are from ten to twelve, might with propriety be distinguished by particular names. The following segments, however, require special mention : the segment or lobule of the cir- cumference (I, fig. 275.), which is the largest; the lobules of the medulla oblongata (lobuli medullffl oblongatae), which are situated behind that part (see fig: 276.), are concave on their internal surface, which is accurately adapted to the medulla, and convex on their external and posterior surface, which dips slightly into the foramen magnum. These lobules (removed from ffig. 275.), which have been noticed by aU anatomists, are separated from one another by the inferior vermiform process (the uvula, b), and each of them terminates in front and on the inner side by a mammiUated extremity (called the amygdala or tonsil), which partially fills up the fourth ventricle. The other inferior segments of each lobe of the cerebellum describe concentric curves around this segment The lobule of the pneumogastric nerve (d) is a sort of prominent tuft (flocculus), situated (u,fig. 276.) behind the pneumogastric nerve (8), and below the facial and auditory nerves (7). The Inteknal Structure of the Cerebellum. It is convenient to include under this head the description of the fourth ven- tricle, as well as that of the substance of the cerebellum.