THE INTERNAL MAMMARY ARTERY. 715 TJie Posterior Scapular Artery. The posterior scapular (transversus cervicis, transversalis colli, &,fiy. 204. 209.) is larger than the preceding, and extends from the subclavian to the vertebral border of the scapula ; it arises from the front of the subclavian, sometimes to the inner side of the scaleni, sometimes between them, but most commonly on the outer side of those muscles * : in the first case it often comes off by a common trunk with the inferior thyroid, and in the two other cases by a common trunk with the supra-scapular. It passes transversely and in a slightly tortuous manner outwards, through the nerves of the brachial plexus, and sometimes through the scalenus posticus, and curves backwards towards the posterior superior angle of the scapula. Then, opposite the levator anguli scapulae, it divides into an ascending and a descending branch. The ascending or cervical branch, the superficial cervical artery of authors, passes beneath the trapezius, and divides into a great number of twigs, which ramify in that muscle, in the levator anguli scapulae, and in the splenius. The descending branch forms the posterior scapular artery properly so called (a, fig. 209.), and may be regarded as the continuation of the ves- sel ; it turns round the posterior superior angle of the scapula, beneath the levator anguli, passes vertically downwards along the vertebral border of that bone, and terminates at the inferior angle by anastomosing with the subscapular artery, a branch of the axillary, and with the supra- scapular, already described. Relations. It is superficial in the first part of its course, during which it traverses the supra- clavicular triangle horizontally, being merely covered by the cervical fascia, the platysma myoides, and the omo-hyoid ; and hence, doubt- less, the name superficial cervical, which has been given to it by some authors, f It is but rarely that the posterior scapular turns round the posterior scalenus and the brachial plexus, without passing between the nerves of the plexus, which it traverses at variable heights. As it proceeds backwards, it is protected by the trapezius ; and lastly, along the vertebral border of the scapula, it lies between the rhomboideus and the serratus magnus. Its collateral branches are destined for the following muscles —the trapezius, scalenus posticus, levator anguli scapulae, splenius, supra- and infra-spinati, sub- scapularis, rhomboideus, and serratus magnus. 77ie Internal Mammary Artery. The internal mammary, or internal thoracic, artery, not so remarkable for its size, which IS less than that of the vertebral, as for its length and the number of its branches, arises (7,^^. 204.) from the subclavian opposite the interior thyroid, and behind the supra-scapular. Few arteries are less variable in their origin. The only varieties which have been observed are those m which it arises from the brachio-cephalic, from the arch of the aorta Z\ JT-^ ^'^^^ ^"f^"""- tl^yoid. Immediately after its Pntfrc't^ P^f ^«>-t'cally dowwards behind the inner end of the clavicle hpn/= , r!*i • 'f obliquely behind the cartilage of the first rib, and bends a little mwards to run along the firstportion of the sternum, below wMch t [It .3 the ascendfng or cerv,e«l brand, only that is n:^m J superficial cervical.]