ANGEIOLOGY. 746 The Muscular Arteries. The femoral gives off a great number of muscular and cutaneous branches •which have received no particular names. One, however, is usually described as the superficial or great muscular artery, which frequently arises from the deep temoral; it passes transversely between the sartorius and the rectus femoris and immediately divides into ascending branches which proceed to the iliacus' sartorius, and tensor vagina femoris, and into very large descending branches some of which are distributed to the rectus femoris, passing in at its posterior surface, whilst others penetrate the vastus internus and vastus externus. The last mentioned branches can be traced as far as the lower part of the triceps muscle ; and indeed the great muscular artery might be named the muscular artery of the triceps extensor femoris, which ig,fig. 214.) may arise from the deep femoral artery. The Deep Femoral Artery. The deep femoral artery {profunda femoris; dd',fig.2U.) is intended to supply the muscles and integuments of the internal and posterior regions of the thigh.* It arises from the back of the femoral, generally about one and a half or two inches below the crural arch, about half way between the pubes and the lesser trochanter, very rarely below this point, but more commonly above it. Thus the femoral often divides either about six lines below the crural arch, or immediately beneath and on a level with it, into two equal and parallel branches, of which the external is the deep femoral, and the in ternal the femoral pro- perly so called. I have seen this subdivision, which bears a rather close analogy to the bifurcation of the humeral artery into the radial and ulnar in the axilla, take place above the crural arch, that is to say, in the external iliac artery. Immediately after its origin, the deep femoral passes back- wards and outwards, and then vertically downwards, gradually approaching the femur ; it is situated deeply behind the femoral artery, but is separated from it by the femoral and deep femoral veins ; it runs parallel to the femoral artery, in front of the pectineus, and on the outer side of the vastus internus; having reached the upper border of the long adductor, it passes behind that muscle to arrive between it and the short and great adductors, perforates the latter muscle a little below the tendinous opening for the proper femoral artery, and terminates by ramifying in the biceps and semi-membranosus. Sometimes, the deep femoral perforates the adductor magnus almost imme- diately, and at once becomes posterior to it. During its course, the deep femoral gives off a great number of collateral branches, which are soon expended in the adjacent muscles, and most of which are unnamed. Those that are named are the internal and external circurnflex and the several perforating arteries. The internal circumflex artery (e) is larger than the external, and is the first branch given off from the deep femoral; not unfrequently it arises from the femoral, and it has been seen to come from the external iliac; it almost im- mediately dips backwards, between the pectineus and the neck of the femur, round which it turns in the same manner as the posterior humeral circumflex artery, so that it may be ruptured in luxation of the femur inwards; it escapes backwards beneath the quadratus femoris, and terminates by dividing into as- cending branches, and into internal and external descending branches. Opposite the pectineus, it gives off the following collateral branches—one very remarkable articular branch ascends along the capsular ligament, enters the hip joint, passes under the ligament which converts the cotyloid notch * It is the proper artery of the thigh, whilst the femoral itself may be regarded as the artery of the leg and foot.