788 ANGEIOLOGY. part, by the scalenus anticus; below, it is in relation with the pleura and with the first rib, on which there is a corresponding but slight depression ; above. It is covered by the cervical fascia, which separates it from the skin : a con- siderable swelling is often seen in this region, when the venous circulation is obstructed. The Superficial or Subcutaneous Veins of the Upper Extremity. The subcutaneous veins of the upper extremity belong essentially to the skin and to the subjacent adipose tissue, since all the branches from the muscles enter the deep veins. The superficial are larger than the deep veins, with which they communicate freely at a great number of points; and it may be remarked, that the size of the one set of vessels is always inversely pro- portioned to that of the other set. We proceed to describe them in succession in the hand, the forearm, and the arm. 77ie Superficial Veins of the Hand. All the largest veins of the hand are situated upon its dorsal aspect; and it is worthy of notice, that the largest arteries, on the contrary, occupy the palm of the hand. If the superficial veins had existed on the palmar aspect, the venous circulation would have been impeded whenever the hand was used in pre- hension. Entering into the large subcutaneous network of veins situated upon the back of the hand are several branches, which constitute the superficial, ex- ternal, and internal collateral veins of each finger ; they occupy the outer and inner borders of the dorsal surface of the fingers, and communicate frequently on the dorsal surface of each phalanx and around the phalangeal articulations, but not upon the articulations themselves. Opposite the lower part of each interosseous space, these collateral veins unite at an acute angle, just as the digital arteries bifurcate at the same point. AH the superficial digital veins ascend vertically between the raetacarpo-phalangeal articulations, which they seem to avoid, and then enter into the convexity of a very irregular venous arch, which is formed by a series of loops, at each of the junctions of which one of the digital veins is seen to terminate. From the concavity of this irregular arch, which is turned upwards, are given off a greater or less number of ascending branches, which are sometimes formed directly by the junction of the digital veins, without the intervention of an arch. Among these branches, we should especially notice the external branch, which is situated nearest to the first metacarpal bone, and is called the cephalic vein of the thumb; also the innermost branch, which corresponds to the fifth metacarpal bone, and, for some reason, not very well known, has been named the vena salvatella. The Superficial Veins of the Forearm. The superficial veins are much more numerous on the anterior than on the posterior aspect of the forearm. We find there the radial vein or veins, the ulnar vein, and the median vein. The superficial radial vein (rj in the representation of the superficial nerves of the arm) is the continuation of the cephalic vein of the thumb, it is situated along the outer side of the carpus and of the radius, and it soon unites with some branches from the vena salvatella, or with the salvatella itself. The su- perficial radial vein often divides into several branches, which are joined by others from the venous arch at the back of the hand. There are sometimes two superficial radial veins. The vein or veins having reached the middle of the forearm, turn forwards upon the outer border of the radius, and then con- tinue to ascend vertically along the outer side of the anterior surface of the forearm, up to the bend of the elbow. The ulnar vein («) commences partly from the vena salvatella, and another