ANGEIOLOGY. 668 in the new-born infant, but for very different reasons; in the infant it is owing to the undeveloped condition of the sternum, but in advanced age it depends upon dilatation of the arch of the aorta; in some adults also we find the distance very inconsiderable, and this is important in reference to the operation of tracheotomy. By its concavity, which is directed downwards, the arch of the aorta is in relation with the left recurrent nerve, which embraces it as it were in a loop, having its concavity turned upwards; with the left bronchus (j>, fig. 171., also fig. 198.), which is placed behind the horizontal portion of the arch, and then becomes situated in front of its descending portions, so that the aorta dm-ing its curvature has two different relations with this air tube; and lastly with a very great number of lymphatic glands, which in some measure fill up the concavity of the aortic arch. Anomalies of the arch of the aorta. A very remarkable anomaly of the arch of the aorta has been observed, in which the vessel, being simple at its origin, divides into two trunks, which pass one in front, and the other behind the trachea, and then re-unite to form the descending aorta. The aorta sometimes presents traces of a subdivision into two from its origin; such a case appears to indicate a fusion of two aortse into one, for we then find five sigmoid valves. The Thoracic Aorta. The thoracic aorta (6 c, fig. 198.) is situated in the posterior mediastinum along the left side of the vertebral column, and it projects into, and encroaches upon, the left cavity of the chest. Relations. It corresponds on the left side with the lung, from which it is separated by the left wall of the posterior mediastitam; on the right, it is in re- lation with the oesophagus, the vena azygos, and the thoracic duct; in front, with the left pulmonary arteries and veins above; with the (Esophagus (/t) below, which canal becomes anterior to it before passing through the oeso- phageal opening in the diaphragm, and with the pericardium in the middle, by which it is separated from the posterior surface of the heart; behind, it is in relation with the vertebral column, the thoracic duct passing between them above. The thoracic aorta is surrounded by an abundance of cellular tissue, and by a number of lymphatic glands. Diaphragmatic portion of the thoracic aorta. The diaphragm does not form a simple orifice or an aponeurotic arch for the aorta, but its crura (s s,fig. 199.) are arranged into a muscular semi-canal, from fifteen to eighteen Hues in length, and terminating below by a tendinous arch. The aorta is accompanied, whilst passing through this canal, by the thoracic duct and the vena azygos, and it inclines a little to the right side, in order to become anterior to the vertebral column. The Abdominal Aorta. The abdominal aorta (c d,fig. 198.) occupies the middle part of the anterior surface of the vertebral column, and is in relation on the right side with the vena cava inferior, and in front with the pancreas and the third portion of the duodenum, which rests immediately upon it; in the rest of its extent it cor- responds with the adherent borders of the mesentery, and with the peritoneiun covering the lumbar region of the vertebral column. The stomach and the convolutions of the small intestine separate the aorta from the anterior parietes of the abdomen. When the small intestine falls down into the pelvis, the ab- dominal aorta may be felt immediately behind the wall of the abdomen, and may be easily compressed there, so as completely to intercept the passage of the blood.* » This comnression is very easily applied iu women immediately after parturition, both in consequence"? the relaxed "tate of thVabdominal parietes allowing them to be readily de- pressed, and also from the facility with which the small intestmes are moved aside.