STRUCTURE OF THE NERVES. 1025 number of nerves, of which some are derived directly from the cerebro-spinal system, and others from the ganglia of the great sympathetic. In those splanch- nic ganglia which approach the median line, the nerves of the right side be- come blended with those of the left by a great number of plexiform branches, which have a ganglionic aspect, surround the visceral arteries, and are sub- divided with them to enter the substance of the viscera. It follows then from what has been just stated, that the great sympathetic is neither a continuous nerve differing from other nerves only by haying enlargements, as was believed by the older anatomists, who described the right and left sympathetic as constituting a special pair; nor is it, as Bichat conceived, a linear series of small nervous centres or little brains, which give off in all directions connecting filaments, "both to the spinal and to the visceral nerves; it is a series of ganglia connected with one another in their action, and originating from each of the spinal nerves given off from the cerebro-spinal axis. It does not arise from the sixth cerebral nerve, nor from the vidian or carotid filaments, more than from any other spinal nerve ; but it takes its origin from the whole spinal cord ; and if it does not diminish in size as it recedes from the brain, but even increases at some points, this is because it receives new filaments of origin during its course. According to an ingenious hypothesis, which is fully confirmed by anatomical facts, the viscera which receive their nerves from the ganglia of the great sympathetic derive their priuciple of action from the whole spinal cord, so that an affection of one nerve, or of one visceral ganglion, must affect the whole ganglionic system, in consequence of the intimate connexions between all the ganglia; and also the cerebro-spinal system, from the connexions be- tween the sympathetic ganglia and the spinal cord. It would follow from this that the sympathetic and the splanchnic ganglia together constitute one vast plexus, which connects in an intimate manner the several viscera with each other and with the rest of the body. This mutual dependence and sympathy is the chief characteristic of the organs of nutritive life, that is to say, of the organs which receive their nervous filaments from the splanchnic and sympathetic ganglia. Structure of the Nerves. Prochaska was the first to throw any light upon the obvious structure of the nervous cords, and to prove that they consisted of true plexuses. Reil, not being contented with noticing the plexiform arrangement of the nervous cords, endeavoured especially to determine their structm-e ; and he failed only because he selected the optic nerve as the type of the other nerves, whereas its structure happens to be exceptional. Each nerve consists of a plexus enveloped in a common fibrous sheath. If this sheath be opened, and the small nervous cords contained within it are spread out by tearing the cellular tissue, it is found that these small cords, which at first seem to be parallel and in juxtaposition, anastomose in a great number of ways, so as to form an extremely complicated plexus. It is also seen, that the cords are of unequal size, not only in the same nerve, but also in different nerves; they are smaUest in the branches of the great sympathetic and pneumo- gastric, and are largest in the nerves of the arm and in the great sciatic nerves. On spreading out a nerve, with its component cords separated from each other, upon a plate of wax, and keeping those cords asunder by pins stuck at intervals, the absolute impossibility of following them through their successive subdivisions, and the multiplicity of their combinations, will become quite ap- parent. ^ The nerves consist essentially of two parts, viz. the nervous matter pro- perly so called, and its envelope or fibrous slicath, which has been called the neuri- lemma. There is a common neurilemma or common fibrous sheath for each nerve Besides this, each small nervous cord and each fibre is provided witli a proper c c 2