857 THE PITUITARY MEMBRANE. It sometimes appears as if it were wanting; but it will then be found opposite the middle of the infundibulum ; in this case the maxillary sinus might be said to communicate directly with the frontal sinus. Not unfrequently the max- illary sinus opens both into the middle meatus and the infundibulum. The pituitary membrane is prolonged from the infundibulum into the anterior ethmoidal cells (e e, fig. 234.), and into the frontal and maxillary (m m) sinuses. If we remove the middle turbinated bone, we find a considerable projection, which bounds the infundibulum above {n,fig. 233.), and corresponds to a large ethmoidal cell. Upon the back part of this projection, on which the middle turbinated bone is moulded, an opening (see bristle) is often found leading into this great cell, and on its fore part (at e), one or more orifices leading into the anterior and superior ethmoidal cells. From the middle turbinated bone (b, figs. 233, 234.), which is continued backwards by a fold of the membrane, the pituitary membi-ane passes into the superior meatus, where I have fre- quently met with four or five openings leading into as many of the posterior ethmoidal cells, which, in this case, did not communicate with each other: I have even seen the orifice of an eth- moidal cell upon the superior turbinated bone (a). The pituitary membrane dips into all the ethmoidal cells, and into the frontal sinuses, either directly, or indirectly, but it does not enter the spheno-palatine fora- men, which, on the contrary, is completely closed by it. Upon the septum the pituitary membrane is remarkable for its thickness, being exceeded in this respect only by the membrane covering the inferior turbinated bone. We do not find in man that prolongation or cul-de-sac, which is so very distinct in some animals, in front of the lower border of the septum ; but, at this point, the pituitary membrane closes the two superior ori- fices of the anterior palatine canal. Structure. The pituitary membrane is a mucous membrane, and its peculiarity consists in its being extended over osseous and cartilaginous sur- faces. Its free surface is smooth, red, and scattered over with foramina, from which a great quantity of mucus may be expressed.* Its adherent surface is intimately united to the periosteum and perichondrium of the bones and car- tilages of the nasal fossae, so that it is classed among the fibro-mucous mem- branes. The pituitary membrane is generally thicker than the other mucous membranes, so that it is very easy to determine the highly vascular and truly erectile structure of this membrane. If it be punctured, and the tube of a mercurial injecting apparatus introduced, the mercury will immediately enter the cells of the erectile tissue, and from thence pass into the veins arising from those cells. If a more superficial puncture be made, a lymphatic network will be injected, situated so superficially, that the mercury exhibits aU Its metallic lustre. This lymphatic network has no communication with the venous cells just mentioned.! This lymphatic network, which is common to all the mucous membranes, gives to the non-vascular layer by which they are covered the appearance of a serous membrane. * [In the nasal fossas the epithelium of the pituitary membrane is columnar and ciliated : in tnesmuses it approaches the squamous in character, but yet it is provided with cilia, the movements of which have been observed in the lower animals to produce currents towards the openings ot the respective sinuses.] iJJLTiV" •'r''5''ff y membrane of the calf that, about eight years ago, 1 first accidentallT injected the superficial lymphatic networli.