THE SUPRARENAL PLEXUSES. 1161 gastrium, and is formed by a ganglionic plexus, named the solar or epigastric plexus. The Solar or Epigastric Plexus. The solar plexus (opposite x, fig. 302.) is formed by an uninterrupted series of ganglia, extending from the great splanchnic nerve of the one side to its fellow of 'the opposite side. From this point as from a centre proceed a great number of branches, which have been compared to the rays of the sun, and hence the term solar plextis. This solar plexus, which is regarded by physiologists as the centre of the nervous system of nutritive life, is deeply seated in the epigastric region, and might therefore be called the epigastric nervous centre; it is situated in the median line, in front of the aorta, around the coeliac axis, and above the pan- creas ; it is boimded on each side by the suprarenal capsules, and is of too irregular a shape to be clearly defined. The ganglia of which it is composed, the solar ganglia, are as irregular and variable as the plexus itself. They con- sist of thick and swollen cords, or ganglionic arches or circles, arranged in a network, in the meshes of which are found some lymphatic glands easily dis- tinguishable from the nervous ganglia and cords. Anatomists, in general, de- scribe only the two extreme ganglia of the solar plexus, in which the great splanchnic nerves terminate; these are the semilunar ganglia (x), so called ffom their shape, but which are subject to much variety both in form and size. Their convex border, which is turned downwards, is divided into several teeth, from each of which a pencil of nerves is given off; a great number of filaments are also given off from their concave border, which is directed up- wards. These ganglia are situated close to the suprarenal capsules; they are often without any regular form, and as it were divided into fragments. A single glance at the solar plexus will suffice to convince us of the impossibility of extirpating it, as some experimenters pretend to have done, in living animals. The great splanchnic nerve of each side (g), a part of the small splanchnic nerves (/i), and the right pneumogastric nerve (p'), end in the solar plexus. I have also seen the right phrenic enter this plexus. From it, as from a centre, plexuses are given off for all the arteries arising from the fore part of the aorta, and also for the renal and spermatic arteries. The plexuses for the renal arteries and the inferior mesenteric artery are completed by the visceral nerves derived directly from the lumbar ganglia. There are two diaphragmatic plexuses, a coeliac plexus, a superior and an in- ferior mesenteric plexus, renal plexuses, spermatic or ovarian plexuses, and suprarenal plexuses. All the nerves given off from the solar ganglia are grey, and very small -, they are always plexiform, and are generally strong on account of the thickness of their neurilemma. TTie Diaphragmatic and Suprarenal Plexuses. The diaphragmatic or.phrenic plexuses are small; they are given off from the upper part of the solar plexus, and reach the phrenic arteries, with which they enter the diaphragm ; they at first lie beneath the peritoneum, but afterwards dip into the substance of the fleshy fibres of the muscle, and do not exactly follow the course of the vessels. In some cases I have been able to ascertain that they anastomose with the filaments of the phrenic nerve : they always run in nearly the same direction. The diaphragmatic plexus of the right side is larger than that of the left I have seen two ganglia, upon the right crus of the diaphragm, which formed the origin of the right diaphragmatic plexus and of some heoatic nerves. ^ I arrange the plexuses of the suprarenal bodies with the preceding, because