678 ANGEIOLOGY Its course within the substance of the mesentery, and following its adherent border, it describes a slight curve, with the convexity directed to the left, and the concavity to the right side : gradually diminishing in size as it ad- vances, it proceeds to opposite tlie ileo-caical valve (i), and then becomes so small, that it can no longer be distinguished from the branches given off from it. It follows, therefore, that the trunk (a b) of the superior mesenteric artery corresponds with the adherent border of the mesentery, with the length of which it, as it were, agrees. Collateral branches. Whilst behind the pancreas, the superior mesenteric sends oSpancreatic branches (A), which anastomose with those derived from the hepatic and the splenic arteries; it rather frequently gives off the hepatic, and it is then larger than the coeliac axis. In the mesentery, the superior mesenteric gives off two sets of branches ; one set arising from its convexity, and forming the arteries of the small intestine, the other set from its concavity, viz. the arteries of the great intestine, called the right colic arteries. The arteries of the small intestine have received no particular name ; they are large branches, directed obliquely downwards and forwards, all of which proceed parallel to each other in the substance of the mesentery, towards the concave border of the small intestine. Their number is irregular, and their size unequal: seven or eight of them are at least equal in size to the radial ar- tery, others are smaller; the superior branches are generally the largest. Their number is calculated at from fifteen to twenty. After a course of about two or three inches, each of them bifurcates ; the branches of the bifurcation separate from each other, and curving into arches, inosculate with the neighbouring branches. From the convexity of this series of arches, which is turned towards the intestine, a multitude of branches arise, which soon bifurcate, and form anastomotic arches (rf d d), which, as they are nearer the small intestine, describe a curve of much greater extent in the mesentery than the first series. From the convexity of this second se- ries of arches a great many more branches arise than were given off from the first series. Lastly, from the division of these branches a third series of anas- tomotic arches is formed, which is still nearer the concave border of the intestine than the second. There are only three series of arches at the commencement and the termin- ation of the small intestine, but in the middle there is a fourth, sometimes even a fifth. From the convexity of the arches nearest to the small intestine arise two sets of vessels, intended for the two halves of the cylindrical gut. Each of these sets of vessels divides into superficial branches, which, ramifying beneath the peritoneum, form a superficial network, and anastomose upon the convex border of the intestine ; and into deep branches, which perforate in succession the muscular and cellular coats, and terminate in an inextricable network in the mucous membrane. The series of anastomotic arches formed by the divisions of the superior mesenteric artery, not only regulate the current of the blood, but also enable a small number of branches, occupying a very limited space at the root of the mesentery, to supply branches to so great an extent of surface as the entire length of the small intestine, which is from fifteen to twenty-one feet. _ This spreading out of the vessels over a large surface will be still better seen in the arrangement of the arteries of the great intestine. Tlie arteries for the great intestine, or the right colic arteries, are two or three in number, and are distinguished into the superior (e), middle (/), and inferior (/i). They arise from the concavity of the curve formed by the superior me- senteric artery; and pass from the mesentery, in which they are inclosed at their origin, into the right lumbar mesocolon. The superior is ascending, tlic middle horizontal, and tlie inferior descending; near the great intestine they bifurcate. The branches of the bifurcation anastomose, and form very large