1037 POSTERIOR BRANCHES OF THE DORSAL NERVES. Tlie Posterior Branches of the Fourth, Fifth, Sixth, Seventh, and Eighth Cervical Nerves. The posterior branches of the fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth cervical nerves are much smaUer than the preceding, and diminish m size successively from the fourth to the seventh. Immediately after their exit from the pos- terior intervertebral foramina, they are reflected inwards and downwards in the following manner: the fourth and fifth (o') incline downwards upon the semi-spinalis colli, between it and the complexus; the sixth, seventh, and eighth descend ahnost vertically beneath the lowest fasciculi of the semi-spinalis colh, supply that muscle and the multifidus spinse, and having reached the side of the median line, perforate the aponeuroses of the splenius and trapezius, become applied to the skin, and ramify in it. The Posterior Branches of the Dorsal, ljumbar, and Sacral Nerves. The posterior branches of the dorsal nerves. These are intended for the dorsal region of the trunk, and resemble each other closely in their distribu- tion, presenting only a few differences connected with the arrangement of the particular muscular layers of each region. The posterior branch of the first dorsal nerve has the same muscular and cutaneous relations as the corresponding branches of the lower cervical nerves; it is of the same size, and is distributed in precisely the same manner. The posterior branches of the second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth dorsal nerves are destined for the thorax, properly so called, and pre- sent the greatest uniformity in their size and distribution. They all emerge from the posterior intervertebral foramina, immediately on the outer side of the semi-spinalis dorsi and multifidus spinse, and divide into two branches. The external or muscular branch is directed towards the cellular in- terval between the sacro-lumbalis and longissimus dorsi, and subdivides into a great number of twigs which are distributed to these two muscles [and to the levatores costarum]. The internal or musculo-cutaneous branch has a very re- markable course. It is reflected inwards over the semi-spinalis dorsi, embracing the outer border of that muscle, and supplying it with nervous twigs ; having reached the side of the spinous process, it is reflected backwards along that process, perforates the spinal attachments of the latissimus dorsi, and thus gains the under surface of the trapezius; in this situation it is reflected out- wards between the latissimus dorsi and the trapezius, perforates the latter muscle very obliquely, and becomes subcutaneous ; it then passes horizontally outwards in the form of a small nervous ribbon, the distinct fibres of whicli do not disunite and spread out in the substance of the skin until they have arrived at the scapular region. The cutaneous branch, which belongs to the second dorsal nerve, always corresponds to the triangular surface on the spine of the scapula oyer which the aponeurosis of the trapezius glides. In one subject which I examined, the musculo-cutaneous divisions of the posterior branches of the third, fourth, and fifth dorsal, nerves presented two ganglia at the point where they bifurcated into their muscular and cutaneous branches; in another, the ganglia were situated upon the cutaneous branches belonging to the first and third dorsal nerves. All these cutaneous branches are horizontal, parallel, and separated from each other by an interval corre- sponding to the height of one vertebra. Such of the posterior branches of the dorsal nerves as are in relation with the trapezius, always present the preceding arrangement. But the branches lower down than that muscle are distributed in the following manner : — The posterior branches of the ninth, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth dorsal nerves are distributed in precisely the same way as the posterior branches of the lumbar nerves; and, like them, are intended for the abdominal parietes.