NEUROLOGY. 1090 a plantar cutaneous nerve, which emerges between the flexor brevis pollicis and the flexor brevis digitorum, and divides into two small cutaneous branches, one of which proceeds forwards, whilst the other runs backwards, like a re- current nerve. There are also some muscular collateral branches, namely,/or the flexor brevis pollicis, the abductor pollicis, and the flexor brevis digitorum. Lastly, the internal plantar collateral nerve of the great toe (o), which is so large that it might be regarded as a terminal branch of the internal plantar nerve ; it comes off from the last-named nerve, at its exit from the covered canal formed for it by the flexor brevis pollicis, passes forwards along the outer side of the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis, below, i. e. superficial to the inner portion of the adductor pollicis (obUque adducteur, Cruveilhier), and gains the inner and under surface of the metatarso-phalangal articulation of the great toe ; in this place it is situated in the furrow between the internal and external sesamoid bones of that articulation; it runs forwards below the inner border of the former, and then of the second phalanx of the great toe, and, having arrived below that bone, it divides, like the collateral nerves of the fingers, into two branches, the one dorsal or ungual, and the other plantar. The terminal branches of the internal plantar nerve are three in number, and are distinguished as the first, second, and third, counting from within out- wards. The first terminal branch, which is the largest, runs along the outer side of the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis, gives filaments to that muscle, passes between the metatarso-phalangal articulations of the first and second toes, under an arch which is common to it and the corresponding vessels, and divides into two secondary branches, which form the external collateral nerve of the great toe, and the internal collateral nerve of the second toe. Not imfrequently this branch gives an anastomotic filament to the internal collateral nerve of the great toe, which passes beneath the metatarso-phalangal articulation of that toe. The first terminal branch of the internal plantar nerve gives off Xh^ filament for the first lumbricalis; it then supplies several articular twigs to the metatarso- phalangal articulation of the great toe, and a very numerous series of cutaneous filaments. The second terminal branch, much smaller than the preceding, passes some- what outwards, crossing below, i. e. superficial to the flexor tendon of the second toe, and then forwards, and bifurcates opposite the metatarso-phalangal articulations, to constitute the external plantar collateral nerve of the second toe, and the internal plantar collateral nerve of the third. During its course, this branch supplies filaments to the second lumbricalis, to the metatarso-phalangal articulation of the second toe, and also to the integu- ments. The third terminal branch passes very obliquely outwards, crosses below the flexor tendon of the third toe, and bifurcates to form the external collateral nerve of the third and the internal collateral nerve of the fourth toe. This branch supplies the metatarso-phalangal articulations of the third and fourth toes, and the corresponding integuments. Summary. The internal plantar nerve, therefore, supplies branches to the skin on the inner part of the sole of the foot, also the plantar collateral nerves of the first, second, and third toes, and the internal collateral nerve of the fourth toe, all of which are cutaneous branches. . ^ ^, „• • It gives muscular branches to the flexor brevis pollicis, the abductor pollicis, the flexor brevis digitorum, and to the two internal lumbricales. Lastly, it gives off a great number of articular filaments to the tarsal, tarso - metatarsal, metatarso-phalangal, and phalangal articulations. The External Plantar Nerve. The external plantar nerve (c,fig. 294), which is smaller than the internal is placed with it in the groove of the os calcis, and perforates the flexor brcMS,