1064 NEUROLOGY. wards between the latissimus dorsi and the skin, and afler running horizon- taUy for a distance of one or two inches, are again reflected forwards, and art- then lost in the skin. Proper Characters of each of the Anterior Branches of the Dorsal Nerves. Tlie first dorsal nerve. This nerve belongs to the brachial plexns, info -which it enters immediately after its escape from the intervertebral foramen, crossing over the neck of the first rib at an acute angle. From its size, it resembles the lower cervical nerves, and differs widely from the remaining dorsal nerves. It becomes intercostal only by giving off a small intercostal twig at its exit from the intervertebral foramen. This intercostal branch is applied to the under surface of the first rib, which it crosses obliquely from behind forwards, so that it does not reach the first intercostal space imtil opposite the junction of the rib with its cartilage ; it gains the middle of this space near the sternum, at which point it passes forwards through the space, like the other intercostal nerves, and ramifies in the muscles and the skin. The second dorsal nerve. This nerve crosses obliquely over the second rib on the outer side of its neck, to reach the first intercostal space, and then re- crosses the same rib, about its middle, to gain the second intercostal space, where it divides into two branches — the intercostal, which follows the lower border of the second rib and presents nothing remarkable, and the perforating or cutaneous branch, which requires a special description. The perforating or cutaneous branch, which is destined exclusively for the skin of the arm, is much larger than the other branches of the same kind. It emerges from the thorax at the middle of the second intercostal space, imme- diately below the second rib, passes directly through that space, is reflected at right angles over an aponeurotic arch, runs outwards, and immediately sub- divides into two branches of equal size, the one external, and the other internal. The external or intercosto-hvmeral branch (to the left of d,fig. 287;) traverses the axilla, receives an anastomotic twig from the accessory nerve (c) of the in- ternal cutaneous of the arm, reaches and crosses over the outer border of the latissimus dorsi, and divides into two cutaneous filaments, one of which is dis- tributed to the skin of the posterior region of the arm, whilst the other lies in contact with the skin of the internal region of the arm, runs parallel to the accessory nerve of the internal cutaneous, and may be traced as low down as the elbow. The internal branch crosses the outer border of the latissimus dorsi, lower down than the preceding branch, becomes applied to the skin, and divides into internal and posterior filaments which are lost in the skin of the arm. The perforating branch, therefore, of the second dorsal nerve completes the system of cutaneous nerves of the arm. The third dorsal nerve is precisely similar to the others, excepting in itsper- forating, cutaneous, or intcrcosto-humeral branch, which is distributed to the in- teguments both of the thorax and arm. It is much smaller than the preceding; it emerges (rf, 287.) from between the digitations of the serratus magnus, is reflected backwards upon itself, gives a small branch to the mamma, crosses the outer border of the latissimus dorsi, below the perforating branch of the preceding nerve, and having reached the upper part of the shoulder, is reflected upon itself, describing a curve with the concavity turned upwards, and ter- minates in the skin of the inner and upper part of the arm. The fourth, fifth, sixth, and seventh dorsalnerves agree exactly with the general description. The intercostal muscles, the triangularis sterni, the serratus magnus, the obliquus externus abdominis, the upper part of the recti ab- dominis, and the integuments of the thorax, are supplied with nerves from these branches, in the order and manner already pointed out. I would-4u:ect attention to the considerable number of filaments distributed to the skin ot the