NEUROLOGY. 1034 TJie Real Ongins of the Spinal Nerves. The apparent central extremity or origin of the spinal nerves is yery difiFerent from their real central extremity or real origin. On examining the spinal cord of an adult, for the purpose of determining this important point, one is in- clined to admit that the point of contact between any nerve and the cord is the real origin of the nerve, so readily can the latter be separated from the cord -without leaving any trace of the separation. It has even been stated by some, that the nerves arise from the neurilemma of the spinal cord. Chaussier believed that the two series of roots arose from two lateral fur- rows, one anterior and the other posterior; but Gall has with reason regarded these furrows as formed by pulling ofif the roots. Others agree with the older anatomists in regarding the spinal cord as a large nerve formed by the junction of all the nervous filaments which are given off from it. But this idea is refuted by the fact, that the cord does not pro- gressively diminish in size from above downwards, as it must have done if formed by the junction of the roots of the spinal nerves. The ingenious and correct observation made by Vicq d'Azyr, that the grey matter is always found in large quantity at those parts from which a great number of nerves originate, and that it bears a proportion to the number of these nerves, and the confirmatory observations of Gall and Spurzheim, seem to prove that the nerves originate from the grey matter. This presumption is also strengthened by the consideration, that the central grey substance of the cord is more abundant opposite the posterior roots, which are the larger, than opposite the anterior roots, which are the smaller. On examining the spinal cord of an adult, by means of a stream of water, it is seen that after tearing away the filaments of the nerves, a small conical depression remains where each filament had been attached, and that the real origin of the filaments is not in this depression but is much more deeply seated. This is all that can be discovered from an examination of the spinal cord of the adult; but in the foetus, at the seventh or eighth month, a considerable part of the cord is semi-transparent, so that the already white filaments by which the nerves arise can be traced into its interior. On making a vertical section transversely through the spinal cord of the foetus, just level with the commissure, and then directing a strong light on the surface of the section, it will be seen that the great number of very delicate filaments of which the anterior and posterior roots of the spinal nerves are composed, traverse the central grey matter, are arranged like the teeth of a comb, and may be traced into the posterior median columns; these small filaments are, moreover, all parallel. The white commissure might almost be regarded as the commissure of these nerves. This view is very different from that of Bellingeri, who, entertaining certain physiological ideas, supposes that the anterior as well as the posterior roots of the spinal nerves consist of three sets of filaments, some of which come from the surface of the cord, others from the interior of the white matter, whilst the third set traverse the white matter so as to reach the extremities of the comua of the grey substance. Lastly, some anatomists agree with Santorini in believing that the nerves decussate at their origin; but they have not attempted to demonstrate this. The Posterior Branches of the Spinai, Nerves. Dissection. Divide the integuments from the external occipital protuberance down to the coccyx. Dissect off the skin over the spinous processes with great care, especially opposite the trapezius. Be particularly cautious opposite the cellular interval between the sacro-lumbalis and the longissimus dorsi. Common Characters. The posterior branches of the spinal nerves, which are generally smaller than