THE TYMPANUM. 893 Fig. 254. Natural size. (Section of the tympanum.) of the ear, it is influenced by their movements ; and in this way it may be either stretched or relaxed. n c ^ The internal wall of the tympanum. The internal wall of the tympanum f/los 254 255 ) which is perfectly exposed when that cavity is opened from ' ' its external wall, presents a great number ofobjects for our consideration. At its upper part is situated the fenestra ovalis if fig. 254.), the long diameter of which is directed transversely, but rather obliquely down- wards and forwards; the upper border of this fenestra if, fig- 258.) is semi-elliptical, whilst the lower border is straight, or rather it projects somewhat into the open- ing. The fenestra ovalis, called also the vestibular orifice of the tympanum, would establish a free communication between the tympanum and the vestibule if it were not closed by the base of the stapes (3, fig. 255.; n, fig. 257.), which is accurately fitted to it. The fenestra ovalis is placed at the bot- tom of a depression, which is named the fossette of the fenestra, and the depth of which depends upon the degree of projec- tion of the aqueduct of Fallopius, which bounds it in front, by that of the promon- tory, which is below, and by an osseous tongue which passes up to the py- ramid, behind. Below the fenestra ovalis is the promontory ir,figs. 254, 255.), an eminence which corresponds to the first turn of the cochlea, and has three grooves upon its surface, that diverge above, and converge below, where they terminate in a common canal, which opens upon the lower surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, between the carotid canal and the groove for the internal jugular vein. This canal (canalis tympanicus, Arnold), may be called the canal of Jacohson, because it contains Jacobson's nerve, a branch given off from the glosso-pharyngeal, which establishes a very remarkable anastomosis between the glosso-pharyngeal and the nervi molles derived from the vidian and great sympathetic nerves. * The furrows upon the promontory are intended to lodge this anastomosis. They are often formed into complete canals. Behind the fenestra ovalis, and opposite its transverse diameter, is a small projection of variable size, called the pyramid it, figs. 254, 255.). There is an opening upon it which is distinctly visible to the naked eye, and makes the pyramid appear tubular. From this opening em rges a small cord (o, fig. 255.), the nature of which is not known, but which is called the stapedius muscle. A bristle passed into this opening enters the canal of the pyramid, which canal is generally described as ending in a cul-de-sac, but this is not the case. M. Huguier, prosector of the Faculty, has clearly demonstrated, in a series of pre- parations, that the canal of the pyramid is a long passage, which passes back- wards and downwards below the aqueduct of Fallopius, becomes vertical like the aqueduct, is separated from it only by a thin lamina of bone, communicates with it by a small opening, and at length abandons it below, to open upon the inferior surface of the petrous bone, on the inner side of the stylo-mastoid foramen, at a variable distance from it. Sometimes this canal bifurcates be- low ; so that two bristles introduced into the small openings near the stylo- mastoid foramen will both enter the canal of the pyramid. A small, very short, and horizontal passage, which terminates in the diploe of the temporal bone, may be regarded as a diverticulum of this canal. • This can be clearly seen in some preparations in the museum of the Faculty at Paris.