876 NEUROLOGY. rectly estimated in a frozen eye: it is filled with the aqueous humour ■ its longest diameter from before backwards is about one line. ' When examined with a lens, the anterior surface of the iris has a Jlorculent appearance, more distinct than, but similar to, that of the external surface of the choroid. It appears as if it were fissured here and there, and in the human subject presents some very well marked radiated bands. When the pupil is contracted these radiated bands are straight, but during its dilatation they be- come flexuous. They appear to interlace, and thus to become blended with each other near the pupil. It is generally admitted that the membrane of the aqueous humour covers the anterior surface of the iris ; but it cannot be de- monstrated in that situation. The colour of this surface differs in different individuals, and it has generally some relation to that of the hair ; upon these differences depend the colour of the eyes, whether blue, black, grey, &c. Whatever may be the colour of the iris, two shades of different intensity may be distinguished in it, and occasion the appearance of two concentric coloured zones in this membrane ; the smaller and deeper coloured zone is situated near the pupil; the larger and lighter coloured one includes the two outer thirds of the membrane. It is not always easy to distinguish these two zones. The posterior surface (i, fig. 243.) of the iris corresponds to the crystalline lens, from which it is separated by an interval filled with the aqueous humour, and called the posterior chamber of the eye (Jig. 241.). The two chambers of the eye, therefore, communicate at the pupil (/>). The posterior surface of the iris is covered by a thick layer of pigment, which is continuous with the pigment of the choroid : near its outer border it is also overlaid by the free or iridian portion (e e) of the ciliary processes of the choroid, which can be easily turned back so as to expose the entire pos- terior surface. It presents extremely well marked radiated bands, which can be well seen, even before the choroid pigment is removed. The aspect of the posterior surface of the iris differs essentially from that of the anterior surface : it is white and smooth, and resembles in many respects the internal surface of the choroid. Some anatomists are of opinion that the posterior surface of the iris is covered by the membrane of the aqueous humour. If such be the case, it is difficult to comprehend how that membrane is ar- ranged with reference to the pigment. Structure. The iris is three or four times as thick as the choroid; it di- minishes in thickness from its outer to its inner border. Its real structure is but little understood. The old opinion of its muscularity, which was re- futed by Weitbrecht and Demours, has been revived by M. Maunoir, who admits two sets of muscular fibres, viz. radiated fibres, which correspond to the external coloured ring, and circular fibres, which correspond to the in- ternal coloured ring, and form a sort of sphincter around the pupil; but no circular fibres can be distinguished around the pupil. An appearance as if such were the case, is occasioned by a peculiar arrangement of the radiated fibres, which seem to bifurcate opposite the internal coloured ring, to interlace with each other, and then terminate abruptly around the pupil; so that the inner border of the iris, or the pupil, appears to be formed by the blunt ex- tremities of these radiated fibres. In the ox and the sheep, the iris has two very distinct sets of fibres — an anterior and circular layer, which occupies the whole of the anterior surface ; and a posterior and radiated set of fibres, which converge from the outer to the inner border. The anterior set of fibres does not exist in the human subject. Another and much more plausible opinion regarding the structure of the iris is, that it consists of a vascular or erectile texture.* * A case is related of a young man who could produce contraction of the pupils by holdinc '"[The''m'uscularity of tlie fibres of the iris is now established beyond a doubt: the fibres of the iris of the pig are described by Schwann as being very minute, cylindrical, and not luaotu. they therefore resemble the muscular fibres of organic life.]