^026 NEUROLOGY. sheath or neurilemma. The Beurilemmatic canals divide, subdivide, and anasto mose like the small nervous cords themselves. «"<»sio- The neurilemmatic canals are composed of fibrous tissue: their shinine aspect (which has caused them to be frequently mistaken for tendons), their strength, their inextensibiUty, their low degree of vitaUty, in fact all their cha- racters, clearly prove their fibrous nature and exclusively protective function.* 1 he neurilemma of the nerves is continuous with the neurilemma of the spinal cord. _ Nervous matter. If, as was shown by Reil, a nerve be immersed in diluted mtnc acid, its neurilemma will be dissolved (rendered transparent), whilst its nervous matter will become remarkably dense and opaque. We shall here- after see how valuable is this double property of acids in their action upon nerves for determining the true character of fibres supposed to be nervous. In a nerve thus prepared it is seen most clearly, that the nervous filaments of which It IS composed are continually anastomosing by loops or at certain angles; and that the addition of one set of filaments to the trunk of the nerve, or the se- paration of others from it, necessarily interrupts the chain of their relations at the very point where it seemed possible to ascertain them, so that after every few inches the component parts of a nerve are completely changed. What is the structure of the nervous matter ? It is not a pulp, but is com- posed of pencils of exceedingly fine filaments, which may be compared to the fibres of raw silk -. these filaments are parallel and in juxtaposition ; they are free throughout the whole length of the nerve, and may be distinctly separated from each other; when not stretched, they are flexuous like a waved line. Each nervous filament reaches the entire length of the nerve. In each nerve, the filaments of which the fibres are composed pass continually from one fibre to another, and enter into an immense number of combinations, without ever becoming blended together. This structure, which is so evident in a nerve hardened by nitric acid, is not less distinct in nerves which have undergone no preparation, f On puncturing the neurilemma, the nervous matter protrudes through the opening, precisely in the same way as the substance of the spinal cord protrudes under similar cir- cumstances. On dividing the neurilemma along the whole length of the nerve, the nervous matter appears like long parallel filaments, of a milk white colour, which float in water if the nerve be immersed in that fluid. Every nervous filament (and this is a fundamental point in their anatomy) has its central extremity in the cerebro-spinal axis, and its peripheral extremity at its point of termination. During the whole of its long course, it only enters into new combinations, without ever being interrupted. Continuity is a law of the structure of the nervous filaments. J Can the nerves be injected? The doctrine of a nervous fluid, which so long prevailed in the schools, led physiologists to admit the existence of canals for the circulation of this fluid. Several experimentalists stated that they had collected the nervous fluid, and * It may be said that the neurilemma owes its fitness as a protecting organ as well to its low vitality as to its strength. This low degree of vitality of the neurilemma is the cause why nerves are constantly seen passing through inSamed or degenerated parts without being affected them- selves. t I have also examined this structure in living animals, whilst endeavouring to determine the insensibility of the neurilemma and the sensibility of the nervous filaments. X [The nervous filaments (primitive fibres of Miiller) are simple tubes, containing a thread of a soft serai-transparent substance ; thoy are continuous with the white fibres of the brain and spinal cord at the apparent origin of the nerves. The primitive fibres of the nerves resemble those of the brain and cord in the nature of their contents, but thev are larger, and their tubular, homogeneous sheath is much more distinct and is firmer, so that they do not become varicose. The olfactory, optic, and auditory nerves, however, are exceptions to this rule; their fibres resembling those of the brain and cord, in their size, delicacy, and liability to become varicose. No differences have been observed between the fibres of the other cranial and spmaj nerves nor yet between those of the motor and sensory roots. The sympathetic nerve, and all which 'receive fibres from it, contain, besides the ordinary nervous fibres, a greater or less number of jointed fibres (grey fibres, MUUcr; organic nervous fibres, ScAwonn cellular tissue, Valentin) exactly like those found in the ganglia and in the grey matter of the brain ana spinal cord ]