706 ANGEIOLOGY. and moreover furnishes a very great number of branches, it has been artificially divided, in order to facilitate its study: each of the divisions has received a particular name, according to the region through which it passes: thus the artery of the upper extremity is called successively the subclavian, the axillary, and the humeral arteiy ; and its terminal divisions are named the radial and ulnar arteries. The Brachio-cephalic Artery. The brachio-cephalic or innominate artery (arteria anonyma of many authors, e, fig. 198.) is the common trunk of the right subclavian and right common carotid arteries, and has in turns been regarded as a portion of the carotid, and as a part of the subclavian. It arises from the aorta, at the point where that vessel changes its direction from vertical to horizontal. It is situated in front and to the right of the other arteries given off from the arch of the aorta. It is from one inch to fifteen lines in length. It is directed obliquely upwards and outwards. Relations. In front of the innominate artery is the sternum, beyond the upper end of which the artery almost always projects, and. from which it is separated by the left brachio-cephalic vein, by the remains of the thymus, and by the sternal attachments of the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles. Behind, it is in relation with the trachea, which it crosses obliquely; on the outer side, with the pleura and mediastinum, which separate it from the lungs; on its inner side is the left common carotid, from which it is separated by a triangular interval in which the trachea is seen. From a knowledge of these relations, modern surgeons have succeeded in applying a ligature to the innominate artery. Its relations, however, vary in different individuals. In some cases almost the whole length of the vessel projects beyond the sternum; and it is then extremely accessible, either to accidental wounds, or to the surgeon in the application of a ligature. It has been thought that the presence of the innominate artery explains the predominance of the right over the left upper extremity j but this opinion is entirely un- founded. The innominate artery gives off no collateral branch, except in those cases in which it affords origin to the thyroid artery of Neubauer. The Right and Left Subclavian Arteries. The right subclavian artery (jr, fig. 198.; fi'fig. 204.) arises from the in- nominate (e) ; the left subclavian {g'), from the arch of the aorta. Varieties of origin. One very common variety is that in which the right subclavian arises below the left, from the posterior and inferior part of the arch of the aorta, from which it passes upwards and to the right side, generally behind the trachea and oesophagus, sometimes between the two, and rarely in front of the trachea. * The precise termination of this artery is not well defined. By most authors it is said to end, and the vessel to take the name of axillary artery as it passes between the scaleni.f It appears to me more convenient to take the clavicle as indicating the respective limits of the two vessels. All above,the clavicle, then, belongs to the subclavian, and all below it to the axillary artery. % From the difference, as to origin, between the right and left subclavians, they differ from each other remarkably in length, direction, and relations. Differences in length. Tb^i right subclavian is shorter than the left by the » [It rarriy passes between the trachea and oesophagus ; and it appears there is no record of Its havinff been actually seen in front of the trachea (see Quain on the Artcrtes).'^ t According to some authors, the artery changes its name as it emerges from between the scaleni; according to others, whilst it is yet between those muscles. Ji,,.„„„ 1 rin this country, the subclavian artery is commonly described as extending a short distance below the clavicle, and terminating in the axillary artery, opposite the lower or outer border of the first rib.]