THE VELUM INTERPOSITUM. 989 the point where the anterior pillar of the fornix changes from an ascending to a horizontal direction, it forms half a ring (situated behind and below k,fig. 282.), which is completed by the anterior part of the optic thalamus. This is the opening of the/ommen of Monro, by which a communication is established (oppositegg,^^. 278.) between the third and the corresponding lateral ventricles. The posterior pillars. Having arrived opposite the back part of the optic thalamus, each of the lateral bands of the fornix, which had already been di- rected somewhat obliquely outwards, passes abruptly and very obliquely out- wards and downwards (r r) into the descending comu (Ji) of the corresponding lateral ventricle, and is there divided into two parts, one of which forms the superficial medullary substance of the cornu ammonis, or hippocampus major (/n), whilst the other follows the concave border of the hippocampus, and takes the-name of corpus Jimbriatum (s), corps /range, corps borde. We shall again allude to these parts in describing the lateral ventricle. I have said that the anterior pillars arise from the corpora albicantia, but they have a much deeper origin, which was figured by Vicq d'Azyr, and has been still better described by Reil. According to that anatomist they arise within the optic thalami. I have traced them much further than Reil, as far as the tania semicircularis on each side; or rather each tania semicircularis (n,fig. 278.), which is situated in the lateral ventricle between the corpus stri- atum (i) and the optic thalamus (Z), and which is continuous with the anterior corpus quadrigeminum or natis of its own side, becomes subdivided into two bands, which may be regarded as the roots of the corresponding anterior pillar of the fornix. Of these two roots one is superficial (w), and easily seen without dissection, the other is deep-seated (v, fig. 283.), enters into the substance of the optic thalamus, runs forwards to the corpus albicans (Z), spreads out and forms the surface of that body, and then curves upwards to constitute the an- terior pillar of the fornix (K), at the point where it emerges from the grey matter. The two bands of the fornix also receive some other white fibres, which greatly multiply its connexions. Thus, as they are traversing the grey matter, the anterior pillars receive additional medullary fibres, some arising from the grey matter itself, and others from the commissure of the optic nerves; again, just as they emerge from the grey matter to become horizontal, they receive a considerable cord, formed conjointly by the white fibres covering the optic thalamus (g, fig. 283.), by a white band, which runs longitudinally along the optic thalamus, and is continuous with the corresponding peduncle of the pmeal gland, and by the superficial fibres of the taenia semicircularis, of which 1 have already spoken. These three sets of fibres form a cord of con- siderable size, which is bent abruptly backwards, and becomes continuous with the fornix. Lastly, the fornix receives, or perhaps it gives origin to the white radiated fibres of the septum lucidimi. The Velum Interpositum. Beneath the fornix is situated a vascular membrane, a prolongation of the ex- ternal pia mater: this is the velum interpositum, or tela choroidea (v,fig. 279.), so named by Herophilus from its tenuity, which he compared to that of the foetal membrane called the chorion. It is thus formed : the external pia mater having arrived below the enlarged posterior extremity of the corpus callosum, penetrates (at r,fig. 282.) into the interior of the bram between that body and the tubercula quadrigemina, and forms a sort of triangular web {v,fig. 279.), the base of which is turned back- wards and the truncated and bifurcated apex forwards. The upper surface of the velum is covered by the fornix (reflected at rr), to which it transmits a great number of vessels. Its inferior surface forms the roof of the third ven- tricle, and corresponds on each side to the upper and to a small part of the , inner surface of the optic thalami (/1). The velum is also in relation with the