1002 NEUROLOGY. that the corpus callosum forms at this point a sort of outer case of meduUarv substance for the corpus striatum, the entire anterior portion of which may be exposed without breaking through any connecting fibres. The anterior part of the corpus striatum may also be exposed from below, that is to say, by dis- secting from the base of the anterior lobe of the cerebrum towards the lateral ventricle ; for this purpose the handle of the scalpel must be inserted along a curved whitish line, the concavity of which is turned forwards, and which limits the anterior lobe behind. The corpus striatum can be completely isolated only in front and opposite the fissure of Sylvius, in which situation it is covered by only a slight thick- ness of cerebral substance, which is seen to consist of four very distinct layers, viz. the external grey layer of the convolutions ; a very thin white layer; an equally thin grey layer ; and lastly another layer of medullary substance. Transverse Vertical Sections. I am in the practice of making five transverse sections of the cerebrum : the first, immediately in front of the corpus callosum; a second through the largest part of the corpora striata; a third through the anterior part of the optic thalami; a fourth through the middle of the thalami; and a fifth through the occipital portion of the posterior lobes. I shall not here enter into a detailed description of these several sections, which appear to me to convey a more correct idea of the structure of the brain than any other sections, but which cannot be well understood without figures. They disclose in fact a medullary centre giving off three or four prolongations of white substance, which con- stitute in their turn the medullary centres of a certain number of convolutions to which they are distributed ; this ramified disposition of the medullary sub- stance warrants the application of the term arbor vUcb of the cerebrum to the ap- pearances seen upon these different sections. The most interesting of these sections is undoubtedly that which passes through the cerebral peduncles, and which discloses the following appear- ances : — Each hemisphere is formed by a medullary centre, which gives off three principal prolongations around which all the convolutions are arranged, and are thus collected into three groups, viz. a superior, an external, and an inferior group ; the last of these is connected with the medullary centre by a long narrow pedicle, which corresponds to the white matter on the outside of the corpus striatum. The corpus striatum and optic thalamus are situated opposite to this pedicle or prolongation of the medullary centre. The medullary centres of the two hemispheres are connected together by the corpus callosum, which forms an arch with the concavity directed down- wards. Moreover, either the section of the septum lucidum, or of the fornix, is seen according to the point at which the knife has been carried through. The transverse section through the corpora striata and optic thalami de- serves special attention. If the section be made through the anterior part of the corpus striatum, and therefore in front of the optic thalamus, the former body presents an oval grey surface, dotted with white points, which are sec- tions of medullary fibres ; the middle of this oval surface is traversed by a series of small, parallel, white fasciculi, which are sections of the medullary bands that pass through the corpus striatum. On the outer side of the corpus striatum are seen distinctly the four layers formerly mentioned as corre- sponding to the island of Reil. The white layer which turns round the outer surface of the corpus striatum may be said to be reflected upwards to form the septum lucidum. Several of these sections appear to me to show that certain white fibres, which arise in the interior of the corpora striata, pass to the circumference of the optic thalami, or it maybe said that certain white fibres arise in the optic thalami, spread out, and are lost in the substance of the corpora striata.