THE LYMPHATICS OF THE PELVIS AND LOINS. 825 iliac vessels It is important, in reference to the ligature of the external iliac arterv to know that these lymphatic glands are subject to enlargement. The internal iliac lymphatic glands occupy the space between the external and internal iUac vessels. The bladder has proper lymphatic glands situated upon its posterior surface, and near its summit. In the female, some of the pelvic lymphatic glands may be regarded as belonging to the vagma and uterus. One tolerably large gland, which may be said to be constant, occupies the internal orifice of the obturator canal, and I have often found it inflamed or indurated in diseases of the uterus. , , , , . „ „ The sacral lymphatic glands occupy the sides of the anterior surface of the sacrum: several of them are situated withm the folds of the meso-rectum, and belong to the rectum itself. The lumbar or aortic lymphatic glands are very numerous, and form a con- tinuous chain with the pelvic glands ; they occupy the angular interval be- tween the common iliac arteries, being placed along those arteries themselves, and also surround the aorta and the ascending vena cava, but more particularly the aorta. It is important to note the relation of these lymphatic glands with the aorta, for that vessel is sometimes found much compressed and narrowed from enlargements of these glands by tubercular or cancerous deposit. There is also a lymphatic gland in each inter-transverse space on both sides of the lumbar region; so that the lumbar lymphatic glands may be divided into the median and the lateral. The Lymphatic Vessels which enter the Pelvic and Lumbar Lymphatic Glands. The difierent lymphatic vessels which proceed from the inguinal glands enter the pelvis, behind the femoral arch, and near the femoral vein : the foramina through which they pass, are so numerous, that the fascia which is perforated by them is named the cribriform fascia. Having arrived beneath the perito- neum, they are divided into two sets, one of which descends into the cavity of the pelvis, and terminates in the several internal iliac lymphatic glands ; whilst the other enters the external iliac glands, and more particularly those situated behind the femoral arch. These external iliac glands, moreover, are joined by the epigastric lymphatics, some of which enter the inguinal glands, and by the ilio-lumbar lymphatics. The lymphatic glands of the pelvis also receive the deep lymphatics of the nates, which accompany the gluteal and sciatic arteries ; the lymphatics cor- responding with the obturator vessels; the lymphatics of the bladder and lower end of the rectum, those of the prostate and vesiculae seminales, and the deep lymphatics of the penis in the male, and those of the vagina, clitoris, and neck of the uterus, in the female. The lymphatics of the bladder, before entering the pelvic glands, traverse the glands proper to itself; the greater number of the lymphatics of the bladder run beneath the peritoneum upon its posterior surface. I have seen the vesical lymphatics filled with pus. Some other lymphatics emerging from the internal iliac glands accompany the ex- ternal and internal iliac arteries and veins, ascend in front of the sacrum, pass through other lymphatic glands, and arrive at the brim of the pelvis. At this point, the lymphatics of the right and left sides unite together. These vessels pass through one or several series of lumbar lymphatic glands, and at last open into the thoracic duct. This collection of lymphatic vessels and glands forms the internal and external iliac lymphatic plexuses. The internal iliac lymphatic plexus is placed in the cavity of the pelvis, and surrounds the inter- nal ihac vessels; the external iliac lymphatic plexus is situated along the vessels of that name. All the lymphatics of the lower extremities, after having passed through a greater or less number of glands, open at last into these lumbar glands, so that the vessels and glands together may he said to form an uninterrupted chain