THE EUSTACHIAN TUBE. 895 persists even to the most advanced age. This suture is traversed by a great number of canals, through which communicating vessels pass from those of the dura mater to those of the tympanum. Below, the tympanum is very narrow, and has the form of a trench, in which there is nothing particular to notice. The wall of the tympanimi is here formed by the osseous lamina of the external meatus. At the upper and back part of the circumference of the tympanum is situated a large opening which leads into the mastoid cells (c c,figs. 254, 255.). These cells are extremely numerous, and of very unequal size ; they occupy the whole of the mastoid portion, and the adjacent parts of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and are prolonged even above the external meatus. We may therefore regard the mastoid portion of the temporal bone as an appendage to the tympanum. The mastoid cells have a very regular arrangement in the ox and horse, in which animals they are disposed in a series radiating from the surface of the mastoid process towards the tympanum ; their arrangement is much more irregular in the himian subject. Two large cells are almost al- ways found, one near the apex, and the other at the posterior border of the mastoid process. In one case I found the whole mastoid process forming a single large cell, having extremely thin parietes. The mastoid cells are lined with a very delicate fibro-mucous membrane, which is continuous with the mucous membrane of the tympanima. They contain air, and it is only in some cases of disease that any quantity of mucus is found in them. The mastoid cells represent, in the auditory apparatus, the cells and sinuses which are connected with the organ of smell. It may be easily conceived that the intensity of sounds may be increased by being reverberated from so considerable a surface. In the foetus there are no mastoid cells; but there exists instead, in the base of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, a cavity prolonged from the recess already described in the upper wall of the tympanum, for the ossicula of the ear. Infront, the tympanum is contracted like a funnel, to become continuous with the Eustachian tube (e,fig. 255.); it might even be said, that the tympanum and the Eustachian tube form together a single funnel-shaped cavity, the ex- panded portion of which is constituted by the tympanum, and the contracted portion by the tube of Eustachius. The canal for the internal muscle of the malleus is formed in the upper wall of the Eustachian tube : it is a narrow tubular canal (m), which having reached the anterior part of the tympanum, becomes applied to the internal wall of that cavity ; It passes horizontally backwards, forming a projection upon this waU, and IS then reflected outwards, at a right angle, to form the hoUow eminence already described. This canal is separated only by a very thin osseous lamina from the Eustachian tube; so that the two passages, placed one above the other, have some resemblance to a double-barreUed gun. The Eustachian Tube. The Eustachian tube (more correctly called the Eustachian trumpet, from tuba, a trumpet; e<f9.2550, or the guttural meatus of the ear, is a straight funnel! shaped canal, flattened upon its outer side, and about two inches in length; t extends from the tympanum to the upper and lateral part of the phary^ where it terminates by a free, expanded extremity (m,fig. 2^4.), directed inl ^Z^Tu earned the guttural orifice,iv the mouth of the Eusta- ch an tube This orifice is wide and dilatable, of an oval shape, the larger end tt^^'l^fy, Tl^ '"^ed'ipwards, and being exceedinglydilatable ; but beyond narv ?rnh. It ^"^^"^'^^ely contracts, and will scarcely admit an ord ' nary probe. I contmues narrow as far as its tympanic orifice, where it a4in becomes sensibly dilated. It is directed obliquely inwards, forw'ards and dolT