986 NEUROLOGY. greater extent than the superior; it forms the upper -wall or roof of the lateral ventricles (i i, fig. 278., in which figure only the anterior and posterior ex- tremities, e and d, of the corpus callosum are left).* This surface is covered by the serous membrane of the ventricles, and, like the superior surface, it is fasciculated. Along the median line it corresponds, in front, to the septum lucidum, (^t, figs. 278. 282.), and behind to the fornix (A), with which it even seems to be united at this point. In consequence of the somewhat regular arrangement of the fibres constituting the two posterior pillars of the fornix (r r,figs.278, 279.),which diverge in this situation, and also of that of the transverse fibres of the corpus callosum, the back part (s,^^. 279.) of the inferior surface of the corpus callosum has received the names of lyra, corpus psalloides, psalterium. The posterior extremity of the corpus callosum (bourrelet, Reit), which as we have already stated is its thickest part, is slightly concave transversely, but presents no other notch, excepting the median depression, between the longi- tudinal tracts, t The anterior extremity of the corpus callosum does not terminate in an en- largement like the posterior, but it is reflected, and embraces the anterior extremity of the corpus striatum: it then passes downwards and backwards (e,fig. 282.), and terminates insensibly in front of the anterior portion (in) of the floor of the third ventricle. Reil applies the term knee (genu) to the point of Reflection, and that of beak (rostrum) to the posterior and thin extremity of the reflected portion. This reflected portion of the corpus callosum is seen upon the base of the brain, between the anterior lobes : the convolution of the corpus callosum also accompanies its reflected portion, and instead of being merely in contact becomes continuous with it, so that the grey matter rests immediately upon the corpus caUosum. The longitudinal tracts arise from the reflected portion of the corpus caUosum ; and the inferior peduncles of the corpus callosum ( Fi'cg d'Azyr), already mentioned, terminate upon this portion. The right and left borders of the corpus callosum enter deeply into the substance of the hemispheres. Beneath the corpus callosum are situated, in the median line, the septum lucidum (t t, fig. 278.), the fornix (k), the velum interpositum (v, fig. 279.), and the median or third ventricle (c to x, fig. 280.) ; and at the side, the lateral ventricles (i i,fig. 278.). We shall proceed to examine these different parts in the above mentioned order. To obtain a good idea of their form and relations it is im- portant to study them upon two brains, one resting upon its convex surface, and the other upon its base. Tlie Septum Lucidum. The septum lucidum, or transparent septum, so called, because it separates the lateral ventricles from each other, and is semi-transparent, is situated in the median line (septum median, Chauss.). It is very well seen (Ufig. 282.) when the corpus callosum has been divided longitudinally on each side of the middle line. It appears like a thin lamina given ofi' from the anterior and inferior part of the corpus callosum, and passing vertically downwards in front of the fornix ; it is of a triangular shape, broad in front and narrow behind; its lateral surfaces constitute the internal walls of the lateral ventricles ; its upper border is continuous with the corpus callosum, its posterior with the fornix, and its inferior with the reflected portion of the corpus callosum in front, and with the inferior peduncles of that body further back. Hence Vicq d'Azyr imagined that the septum lucidum was a continuation of these peduncles. The septum lucidum is composed of two very delicate and completely * The best mode of examining the lower surface of the corpus caUosum is to view it by nnpTiiniT thp vpntrlcles from the base of the brain. . ^ . •+ Onl s astou rhed to read in Chaussier's work, that the notch of the posterior extrcmitj of till CORPUS caUosum is caused by the alternate movements of elevation and depression of the b ain A «^b oU;vation, according to him, this extremity of the corpus ^■^^J.^^^^l^^^'^Z agliSit the free margin of the falx cerebri, although that margui .s at some slight distance from it.