?0a ANGEIOLOGY. angular artery, runs in the groo-ve formed by thenose and cheek, between the py- ramidalis nasi and the levator labii superioris alseque nasi; it is accompanied by the vein, which lies to its outer side, and it is continuous with the facial artery, without any line of demarcation, the two vessels Inosculating so com- pletely, that it is impossible to define their respective limits: the other branch, the dorsal artery of the nose, runs along the dorsum of the nose, and termi- nates opposite each ala by anastomosing with its corresponding artery. These two divisions of the nasal branch of the ophthalmic are subcutaneous, and give off numerous ramifications, which cover the whole surface of the nose. The frontal branch is smaller than the nasal, and generally smaller than the supra-orbital or superciliary; it passes upwards upon the forehead, pa- rallel to the supra-orbital, with which it communicates above by a transverse branch ; it divides into subcutaneous twigs, situated between the skin and the muscles, and into muscular and periosteal twigs. Summary of the distribution of the ophthalmic artery. The ophthalmic sends branches to the ball of the eye, to its appendages, viz. the muscles, eyelids, and lachrymal apparatus, to the frontal region, and to the nose and nasal fossse. To the ball of the eye it gives the arteria centralis retina;, which supplies the retina, the hyaloid membrane, and the capsule of the crystalline lens; the posterior, middle, and anterior ciliary arteries, which are distributed to the choroid membrane, the ciliary processes, and the iris. It supplies proper muscular branches, and also twigs from its other branches, to the muscles of the eye. To the eyelids it gives off the palpebral arteries. To the lachrymal ap- paratus it supplies the lachrymal artery for the gland, and the two branches for the lachrymal sac and the nasal duct. The frontal region receives its frontal and supra-orbital branches; the nose, the nasal branch, and the nasal fossse, the anterior and posterior ethmoidal arteries. Tlie Cerebral Branches of the Internal Carotid Artery. When the internal carotid has given, off the ophthalmic artery, it enters (c, fig. 208.) a deep fossa seen on the base of the brain at the inner end of the Ft 208 fissure of Sylvius, and immediately divides ' ^" ' into three branches, which spread out from each other. Of these three branches, the anterior is called the anterior cerebral, or artery of the corpus callosum, the external is named the middle cerebral, or artery of the fissure of Sylvius, and the third or posterior is the posterior communicating artery. Not unfrequently the carotid gives ori- gin to the posterior cerebral artery, from which, in that case, the posterior com- municating artery is then given off, and immediately joins the anterior extremity of the basilar artery. The anterior cerebral artery. This ves- sel (rfrf, fig. 208.), also called the artery of the corpus callosum, passes immediately after its origin, forwards and inwards, to- wards the median line, and thus reaches the longitudinal fissure between the right and left anterior lobes of the brain There it approaches its fellow of the opposite side, and communicates with it