988 NEUROLOGY. The fornix resembles an isosceles triangle (trigone cerebral), having the an- terior angle very much elongated and soon bifurcated; its posterior angles suddenly diverge, pass downwards and outwards, and are prolonged (r r) into the inferior or reflected portions or descending cornua of the lateral ventricles, where they constitute the corpora Jimbriata (s), or rather the fornix may be said to be composed of two perfectly distinct medullary cords, which are applied closely to each other, become broader and flatter as they proceed backwards and downwards, and separate from each other opposite the reflected portions of the lateral ventricles, into which they enter. The fornix, therefore, resembles the letter X placed horizontally, the anterior limbs of which are close to each other (between q q) and very short, whilst the posterior limbs (r r) are very long and widely apart. The term fornix is really applicable only to that portion which is applied to the corpus caUosum. ReU, who has described and figured this part better than any of his predecessors, not even excepting Vicq d'Azyr and Soemmerring, calls the fornix the twain-band. The superior surface of the fornix corresponds, in the median line, to the septum lucidum in front, and to the corpus callosum behind : on each side rt is free and forms a part of the floor of the lateral ventricles. The choroid plexuses (/> />) are sometimes reflected upon this surface of the fornix. In order to understand the relations of the fornix with the corpus callosum, it is necessary to bear in mind that it is composed of two flat medullary bands. Now the internal contiguous borders of these bands are turned upwards, and adhere to the lower surface of the corpus callosum, so as to form a small ver- tical septum, which is continuous with the back part of the septum lucidum. The medullaiy fibres of the septum lucidum are therefore generally considered to be continuous with those of the fornix. The inferior surface of the fornix (r r,fig. 279.) rests upon the velum inter- positum (v), which separates it from the third ventricle (c b x, fig. 280.) and the optic thalami (/ 0> the internal portion of which bodies is covered by the fornix (see fig. 278.). It is upon the posterior portion of this inferior surface, where the two medullary bands of the fornix separate from each other to enter the descending cornua of the lateral ventricles, that we find that regular though variable arrangement of transverse fibres (s), abutting on certain lon- gitudinal fibres (r r), which has been named the lyra, corpus psalloides or psal- terium. I have already noticed this structure, which was erroneously regarded by Gall as composed of the uniting fibres of the fornix. The edges of the fornix are thin and free, and are bordered by the choroid plexuses. m ■ The anterior pillars oi the fornix ik,figs. 279, 280.), which Vieussens, Tarin, and others described as arising almost indifferently either from the cerebral peduncles, or from the anterior commissure (c, fig. 280.; situated in the third ventricle), can only be well seen in a longitudinal vertical section of the cerebrum made exactly in the median line. Each half of the cerebrum will contain the corresponding band of the fornix ; and it wiU then be seen, as was first described by Santorini, that each anterior pillar (seen below k and behind c, fia ^82 ) arises from the corpus albicans (z) of its own side : hence these bodies have been caUed the bulbs of the fornix. The whole of the white covering of each of the corpora albicantia (^l,fig. 283.) appears to be formed into a thick white fasciculus or cord, which passes upwards, and may be very easily traced with the handle of the scalpel through the soft grey matter which forms the inferior and anterior portion of the wall of the third ventricle. Whilst passing through this erev matter the cord describes a curve, having its concavity turned backwards, Ind is situated between the optic thalamus and the corpus striatum, and behind the anterior commissure (c,fig. 282., m,fig. 283.); havmg emerged from the grey matter, which is still prolonged along its anterior surface and thus reaehes the septun^ lucidmn (0, the anterior pillar is reflected backwards (J-f f |g> '.'^ ftont of the optic thalamus, and becomes changed into a flat ^''"^d (A, ss^-). which is applied to the thalamus (0, and follows the contour of that oody. at