THE ANTERIOR PYRAMIDS. 937 basilar groove, so that it forms with the spinal cord a very obtuse angle, which ^"^Tn's^hapT'irresembles a cone flattened in front and behind, and having its base turned upwards and its apex downwards ; it has, therefore, four surfaces, viz. an anterior, a posterior, and two lateral. Anterior Surface of the Medulla Oblongata. This surface (fig. 270.) is directed downwards, and is therefore named in- ferior by some anatomists ; it is convex, and is lodged in the basilar groove of the occipital bone; it can be properly examined only after its neurilemma has been dissected ofiP, which is easily done, because its substance is denser than the spinal cord. On this surface we observe a median furrow (/), into which numerous vessels enter : this furrow, which is not nearly so deep as the anterior median furrow of the spinal cord with which it is continuous, is Interrupted by a decussation of fibres about ten lines below the pons Varolii (below n), and terminates above in a tolerably deep fossa (le trou borgne, or fo- ramen caecum, of Vicq d'Azyr), at the point where the fiinow meets the pons. Not unfrequently some transverse fibres occupy the place of this median furrow, in which case the anterior surface of the medulla oblongata resembles the pons Varolii; sometimes these transverse fibres are found upon only a part of the medulla oblongata. On each side of this median furrow are seen two eminences, which seem as if moulded in relief upon the part, and which form two planes succeeding one another like steps from within outwards. The two internal eminences are caUed the anterior pyramids; the two external are named, from their shape, the olivary bodies. The Anterior Pyramids. The anterior pyramids ( Vieussens; b b), situated on each side of the median line, and to the inner side of the olivary bodies, are two white pyramidal bundles (bandes inedullaires, Malacarne), which extend through the entire length of the medulla oblongata; tLey project in relief upon the body of the medulla, and seem to emerge or originate near its narrow portion or neck, where they separate from each other the anterior columns of the spinal cord, . from which columns they are quite distinct: at their point of emergence they are closely approximated and narrow, being about a line and a half in width; they pass somewhat obliquely upwards and outwards, become more prominent, and about three lines wide; having reached the pons Varolii, thev become rounded and cylindrical, and are constricted before they enter the substance of the pons, in which we shall afterwards trace them. When the two pyramids are gently held apart, it is said that some trans- verse fibres are seen passing from one to the other, along the bottom of the median furrow; and it is even stated that there is a decussation of their fibres: this, however, is only apparent, and I cannot here too particularly caution the student agamst those illusive appearances, which depend either upon the ex- istence of foramina for the passage of vessels, or may be produced by pulling about the scattered fibres in drawing the parts asunder. It will soon be shown that there are no transverse fibres here, and that there is no decussation of fibres at an acute angle along the whole length of the anterior pyramids, as was admitted by Petit, Winslow, Santorini, and others. The two halves of the medulla oblongata are in fact merely applied to each other, and agglutinated together. There is no decussation excei'ling at the point where the pyramids emerge.