769 THE JUGULAR VEINS. The Internal Mammary Veins. The internal mammary veins foOow the same course as the arteries of that " name and receive a series of branches corresponding to those given off by the arteries excepting in one instance, viz. the superior phrenic veins, neither of -which 'in general, terminates in the corresponding internal mammary. Usually there are two veins of unequal size for each internal mammary artery which is placed between them. The two almost always unite into a single trunk, which terminates on the right side at the junction of the two brachio-cephalic veins, or in the upper and front part of the superior cava, and on the left in the corresponding brachio-cephalic vein. Among the veins which open into the internal mammary, I should mention the proper veins of the sternum, which form a very remarkable venous network in front of and behind each piece of that bone beneath the periosteum. The Superior Phrenic, and the Thymic, Pericardiac, and Mediastinal Veins. These are small veins which unite into two groups, one for the right side, terminating at the junction of the two brachio-cephalic veins, or at the upper and anterior part of the superior vena cava ; the other for the left, and termi- nating in the left brachio-cephalic vein. The pericardiac and mediastinal veins commence upon the pericardium and the anterior mediastinum.. The thymic veins, which are very large in the foetus, may still be seen in the adult and the aged, for the thymus gland is never completely absorbed. The superior phrenic veins are remarkable for their length as well as for their small size ; they accompany the phrenic nerve and the superior phrenic artery : the left superior phrenic vein often enters the corresponding superior inter- costal vein, and, frequently, the internal mammary vein. The Vertebral Veins. The vertebral vein corresponds to the cervical portion of the artery of the same name, and like it is contained in the canal formed by the series of fora- mina at the base of the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae ; it opens into the brachio-cephalic vein immediately behind the internal jugular; and it is said to open occasionally into the last mentioned vein. Not unfrequently, as Eustachius remarks, this vein divides into two branches near its termination, one of which emerges with the artery, between the fifth and sixth vertebrse, whilst the other, either alone, or accompanied by a small arterial twig, escapes by the foramen of the seventh cervical vertebra. I have seen these two branches emerge, one at the foramen of the fifth, the other at that of the sixth cervical vertebra. This vein commences in the deep muscles at the back of the neck, commu- nicates by a large branch with the occipital vein, and sometimes receives a small branch, wh!ch passes out at the posterior condyloid foramen; it enters the canal of the transverse processes, between the occipital bone and the atlas; and whilst within this canal, it receives anterior muscular branches from the pracvertebral region, posterior branches from the external spinal veins, and vertebro-spinal branches from the interior of the spinal canal. At the point where it opens into the brachio-cephalic vein, it receives a large branch, which corresponds in its course to the ascending cervical artery ; it also receives the deep cervical vein, which has the same distribution as the artery of that name. The Jugular Veins. The jugular veins (from jugulum, the throat) are three in number on each side, VIZ. the internal or deep jugular {n,fig. 219.), the external jugular (A), and K 2