875 THE IRIS. see that they are dove-tailed together, that is, the ciliary processes of the vi- treous body are fitted into the intervals between the ciliary processes of the choroid, and vice versa. If the thick layer of pigment, with which they are covered, be removed, the ciliary processes of the choroid, when examined through a lens under water, have a white colour. In their substance are seen irregular cells which are filled with the brown pigment, and which give them a spongy, and as it were jagged, appearance. They are evidently continuous with the choroid, which immediately around them presents a zone of a whiter colour than the rest of the inner surface of that membrane. Structure of the choroid coat and its ciliary processes. The structure of these parts is essentially vascular. Fine injections thrown into the carotid artery and internal jugular vein, in young subjects, fill a beautiful network of vessels in this membrane. The vorticose arrangement {v,fig. 244.) of some of tiiese vessels is then clearly displayed, and indeed this is very well indicated, ■without the aid of an injection, by the stria; already described as visible upon the surfaces of the choroid. The short ciliary arteries belong exclusively to the choroid coat. From a great number of experiments made by M. Ribes, it would appear that injections pushed into the arteries do not enter the villi and fringes of the ciliary body, but that their vessels may be filled from the veins ; so that, according to this, the structure of the free and fringed portion of the ciliary processes is altogther venous, like the cavernous or erectile tissues.* From the different appearance of the external and internal surfaces of the choroid, anatomists have regarded this coat as being composed of two layers, of which the internal is called the membrana Ruyschiana, after Ruysch, who has given the best description of it. According to one view, which is not alto- gether unsupported, the internal layer alone concurs in the formation of the cUiary processes, whilst the external layer corresponds to the ciliary ring. The Iris. The iris (i,figs 242, 243.), so called on account of the varied colours which it presents, is a membranous vertical septum, perforated in the centre, like the diaphragm of an optical instrument. By means of this septum (i,fig. 241.), the space (/>) between the cornea (ra) and the crystalline lens (/) is divided into two parts or chambers, an anterior and a posterior. The iris is circular, and perforated in its centre by an opening which constitutes the pupil (p, /jf. 242.), vulgarly, the apple of the eye, and which is surrounded by the lesser or inner border of the iris; the pupil is circular in the human subject, and ob- long, either transversely or vertically, in the lower animals ; the number of lu- minous rays suffered to impinge upon the retina are regulated by variations in the size of this opening. We constantly find in several kinds of animals, and occasionally in the human subject, small fringes attached to the lesser border of the iris, which float in the aqueous humour. The outer or greater border of the iris is, as it were, fitted in between the ciliary ligament, which projects beyond it slightly in front, and the ciliary processes which encroach upon it behind (see fig. 241.). The manner in which it adheres to these parts is not well understood. There is a true con- tinuity of tissue, and yet they may be separated by a slight degree of force ; on this is founded the operation for artificial pupil by detaching the iris. Ihe outer border of the iris is not continuous with the circumference of the cornea. The anterior surface of the iris ii,fig. 242.) with its different shades of colour, is the part which is seen through the transparent cornea ; it is plane, not convex The interval between it and the cornea constitutes the anterior chamber of the eye (Jig. 241.). The form and size of this interval can be cor- cil*nEj"p/™8'!]' '"j"'"""'- ''^ "^nous ramincations are demonstrated in the