1058 NEUROLOGY. unciform bone, perforates the flexor brevis digiti minimi, and passes deeply into the palm of the hand, so that it cannot be exposed without dividing all the tendons of the palmar region. This branch describes a transverse curve or arch with the concavity di- rected upwards, in front of the metacarpal bones, corresponding to and situated within the curve described by the deep palmar arterial arch, which crosses it at an acute angle. No branch arises from the concavity of this nerve, but from its convexity a great number are given off in the following order :— During the passage of the nerve between the pisifoi-m and miciform bones, three branches for the three muxcles of the hypothenar eminence. Two very remarkable descending filaments which supply the palmar interossei of the third and fourth spaces, and end in the third and fourth lumbricales. The first and second lumbricales, and frequently the third also, are supplied by the median nerve. Three perforating branches pass backwards between the upper ends of the metacarpal bones, give some branches to the palmar interossei, proceed along the cellular interval between the palmar and dorsal interossei, supply the last- mentioned muscles, and terminate by anastomosing with the dorsal collateral branches of the ulnar and radial nerves. We may regard as terminal divisions of the deep branch ; two branches, which are given to the two portions of the adductor pollicis, * and a branch for the first dorsal interrosseous muscle, from which a filament is given off that enters the adductor pollicis near its lower border. Summary. From what has been stated, it appears that the ulnar nerve gives off no branch in the arm : that in the fore-arm it supplies some ar- ticular branches to the elbow-joint, certain muscular branches for the flexor carpi ulnaris and the inner half of the flexor profundus, and a cutaneous fila- ment which anastomoses with the internal cutaneous nerve : that it gives ofi' to the hand a dorsal cutaneous branch, from which the dorsal collateral nerves of the little and ring fingers, and the internal dorsal collateral of the middle finger, proceed; a palmar cutaneous division which supplies the pahnar col- lateral nerves of the little finger, and the internal palmar collateral nerve of the ring finger; and a muscular divisioii, which is distributed to the three muscles of the hypothenar eminence, to all the interossei, among which we may include the adductor pollicis, f and to the two internal lumbricales. Musculo-spiral Nerve. The musculo-spiral or radial nerve, which is the largest of the ternainal divi- sions of the brachial plexus, is intended for the triceps extensor cubiti, for the muscles of the posterior and external region of the fore-arm, and for the skin of the arm, the fore-arm, and dorsal region of the hand. It arises {f,fig. 286.) from all the five nerves of which the brachial plexus is composed, by a trunk which is common to it and to the circumflex nerve, and it issues from the plexus behind the ulnar nerve, to which it is closely appUed. Immediately after its origin, it passes downwards, backwards, and outwards (b fig 288 ). in front of the conjoined tendons of the latissimus dorsi and teres major, to gain the groove of torsion or spiral groove of the humerus, into which it enters, passing between the long head of the triceps and the bone, then between the external head and the bone ; it traverses the whole extent of * ThP reader must here be reminded, that I have regarded all that portion of the flexor hrlvU DoUidB f of Mthors) which is situated to the inner side of the tendon of the flexor longus Dollicis or in other words, all that portion which is attached to the internal sesamoid bone as poincis, or m ..iii.:. /opo Myology vol. . p. MO.) The distribution of the belonging o the adductor po^^^^^^^ P^^^^ J^^^^ SCnion^orthe adductorVeceiifthe^^ from the ulnar."^ [This general statement is no bone. ■'