ANGEIOLOGY. 800 coUateral venous canals of Tvhich I have already spoken, extend from the upper part of the anterior tibial to the middle of the popliteal vein. The Femoral Vein, The femoral vein, like the artery of that name, is hounded below by the nng in the tendon of the adductor magnus, and above by the crural arch ; it has different relations -with the femoral artery in various parts of its course: thus, below, it is on the outer side of the artery ; higher up, it is situated be- hind that vessel; lastly, from the entrance of the vena saphena interna to the crural arch, it is placed to the inner side of the artery, and is in close con- tact with the posterior part of the opening for the femoral vessels; so that femoral hernise descend in front of the vein, but not of the artery. The femoral vein is single, like the artery; nevertheless, there are one or two col- lateral venous canals, which run parallel with the lower half, or lower two- thirds of that vein ; some communicating branches from the internal saphenous vein, and some muscular branches, open into these venous canals, which are always abundantly supplied with valves. The femoral vein receives all the branches corresponding to the divisions of the femoral artery, excepting the external pudic veins and the cutaneous veins of the abdomen, which terminate in the internal saphenous vein. The great deep vein {profunda) opens into the femoral about ten or twelve lines below the crural arch. The External Hiac Vein. The external iliac vein is bounded below by the femoral arch, and terminates at the upper part of the sacro-iliac symphysis by uniting with the internal iliac vein ; it has the same relations as the artery, and is placed behind and to the inner side of that vessel, excepting over the os pubis, where it is exactly to the inner side of the artery. In one case I found the left common iliac re- ceiving the right internal iliac, so that the right external iliac was prolonged into the vena cava. The external iliac receives the epigastric and the circumflex iliac veins. These two veins are double, but each pair unites into a single trunk, as it is on the point of opening into the external iliac vein. All the deep veins of the lower extremity, excepting the external iliac, are provided with valves. There are four in the deep femoral, the same number in the popliteal, and many more in the tibial and peroneal veins ; the mouths of all the small veins which open into them are provided with a pair of valves. The SuPERFiciAi Veins of the Lower Extremity. The superficial veins of the lower extremity are much less numerous than those of the upper, and all terminate in two trunks, viz. the internal saphenous vein and the external saphenous vein. As in the hand, they are all situated upon the dorsal region of the foot. AH the collateral veins of the toes enter the convexity of a venous arch, which is more regular and constant than that in the hand, and which is placed on the fore part of the metatarsus. From the inner end of this arch is given off a large branch, named the internal dorsal vein of the foot, which is the origin of the internal saphenous vein; the outer extremity also gives off a somewhat smaller branch, called the external dorsal vein of the foot, which forms the commencement of the external saphenous vein. Tlie Internal Saphenous Vein. The internal or great saphenous vein (saphena interna; s, in the represent- .. . ation of the superficial nerves of the leg) is a coUateral vein of the femoral ^ /(^/o venous trunk, and is continuous with the internal dorsal vein of the foot. I he