CEREBRAL RRANCHES OF. THE INTERNAL CAROTID. 703 by a transverse branch, which passes at right angles between them. This anastomotic branch (o), so remarkable for its size, shortness, and direction, is called the anterior communicating artery; instead of one, there are sometimes two smaller branches; sometimes it is so short, that the two anterior cerebral arteries may be said to be applied to each other, and blended together at this point: most commonly it is from one to two lines in length, and it then gives off some small twigs, which penetrate into the third ventricle. After communicating in this manner, the anterior cerebral arteries become parallel, run from behind forwards, turn upwards in front of the anterior ex- tremity' of the corpus callosum, and then run backwards upon its upper surface, as far as its posterior extremity, describing a curve, which exactly corresponds with that of the corpus callosum itself. Before turning over the anterior border of the corpus callosum, the anterior cerebral arteries give off some ramusculi to the optic and olfactory nerves, to the third ventricle, and the adjacent part of the anterior lobe of the brain, and also a series of large branches, which are distributed to the inferior sur- face of the same lobe. At the point where the arteries are reflected, and also along the upper surface of the corpus callosum, large branches arise from the convexity of the curve described by these vessels, and ramify upon the inner surface of the two hemispheres: the anterior branches run from behind forwards, and the others from before backwards, and from below up- wards ; most of them reach the convex surface of the brain. Some capillary twigs proceed from the concavity of the curve, and penetrate the substance of the corpus callosum. We may regard as the termination of each anterior cerebral artery a very small branch which continues in the same course, reaches the posterior ex- tremity of the corpus callosum, is there reflected downwards, and terminates in the adjacent convolutions of the brain. The middle cerebral artery. This is larger than the preceding vessel; it passes (/, fig. 208.) outwards and backwards to enter the fissure of Sylvius, having previously given off a great number of rather large branches, which run perpendicularly upwards into the very thin layer of cerebral substance, situated at the junction of the longitudinal fissure of the brain with the fissure of Sylvius.* As soon as the middle cerebral artery has entered the fissure of Sylvius, it divides into three branches — an anterior, which is applied to the anterior lobe; a posterior, which lies upon the middle lobe; and a median branch, which corresponds to the small lobe that is concealed within the fissure : they all follow the-direction of this fissure, and are concealed within it, but soon emerge so as to ramify upon the convolutions and anfractuosities of the brain, anastomosing with each other and with the branches of the anterior and pos- terior cerebral arteries. It is of importance to remark, and this observation applies to all the cerebral arteries, that the arterial ramifications destined for the surface of the brain are extremely tortuous, that they dip into the anfractuosities, and cover the free borders and the two surfaces of the convolutions, between which they are situated ; that they ramify very freely, and run a very extensive course ; and that they do not divide gradually into smaller and smaller branches, but that bundles of very fine capillary vessels arise from every part of the cir- cumference of vessels of a certain size, and immediately penetrate the cerebral substance. The posterior communicating artery, or communicating artery of Willis. This artery varies exceedingly in size, being generally small, but sometimes form- ing the largest division of the internal carotid. It arises from the back of the carotid, runs from before backwards (r), and terminates in the posterior ce- rebral branch of the basilar artery. In certain cases, the communicating • We shall see hereafter that this region of the brain belongs to the corpus striatui VOL. II. F