727 THE ULNAR ARTERY. Fig. 211 (c c). These are three in number, and form for the second, third, and fourth interosseous spaces what the radial itself is for the first, with this difference, that the radial perforates the first space from behind forwards, whilst these perforating branches traverse the corresponding spaces from before backwards. Thev arise from behind the deep palmar arch, and immediately perforate the upper part of the interosseous spaces in a straight line, and having reached the dorsal aspect of the hand, generally anastomose with the corresponding dorsal interosseous arteries, which in a great number of cases are formed entirely by these perforating branches. In some subjects, the dorsal interosseous arteries result from the anastomoses of the perforating arteries with the inter- osseous arteries derived from the dorsal carpal arch formed by the dorsal carpal branches of the radial and ulnar arteries; they pass vertically down- wards on the dorsal surface of the interosseous spaces, and having reached their lower parts, anastomose with the descending digital branches of the superficial palmar arch, and thus assist in the formation of the collateral arteries of the fingers. The Ulnar Abteky and its Bbanches, The ulnar artery (g,Jigs. 210,211.), which is larger than the radial, leaves that vessel at a very acute angle, passes at first downwards, inwards, and backwards, in front of the ulna, describing a slight curve, the convexity of which is directed upwards and inwards, and then descends vertically. Having arrived at the wrist, it is placed on the outer or radial side of the pisiform bone, in front of the annular ligament of the carpus, and then enters the pabn of the hand, where it describes beneath the palmar fascia an arch, which has its con- vexity turned downwards, and is named the superficial palmar arch (t,fig. 210.; removed in fig. 211.). The relations of the ulnar artery must be separately examined in the fore-arm and in the hand. In the fore-arm, it is at first covered by the thick bundle of muscles which are attached to the inner con- dyle of the humerus, and also by the median nerve, from which it is separated by that part of the pronator teres which arises from the coronoid process; it is then co- vered by the flexor sublimis, and finally by the fascia and skin; the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris is upon its inner side, and that of the flexor sublimis on its outer: these two tendons by their projection occasion an interval between the artery and the skin. It is in re- lation behind with the brachialis anticus, the flexor profundus digitorum, and the pronator quadratus. The ulnar nerve is applied to the inner side of the artery at the point where the vessel becomes vertical, and ac- companies it as far as the hand. The median nerve is , situated on its inner side at the bend of the elbow, but afterwards becomes anterior, and then external to it. In some cases of high division of the humeral artery, the ulnar has been found immediately under the fascia in its whole length. In the hand, it is at first situated on the outer or radial side of the pisiform bone, and then in front of the hook- like process of the unciform bone ; finally, where it forms the superficial palmar arch, it is entirely sub-aponeurotic. 1° the fore-arm, the ulnar artery gives ofi' a great number of unnamed collateral branches, which are divided into internalT ex- ternal, anterior, and posterior, and are distributed to the muscles and in- teguments. Four branches, however, require special notice," viz. in the fore- arm, the common trunk of the ulnar recurrenls, the interosseous artery the