THE LACTEALS OR LYMPHATICS OF THE INTESTINES. 829 It has been stated that the lymphatics of the stomach have been seen filled with chvle; this is at least doubtful. , . , • The Lwhatics of the spleen. The superficial lymphatics of tlus organ cannot he tppn unJess the splenic bloodvessels have been previously injected with sise iniection the sise freed from the colouring matter wiU pass into them. I have seen tallow, thrown into either the arteries or vems of the spleen, pass So the supei-ficial lymphatics. It is true that the injection was made forcibly Sd kept up for some time. The deep lymphatics of the spleen are not The proper lymphatics of the pancreas are little known. The Lymphatic System of the Intestines. TTie Lymphatic Glands of the Intestines. The lymphatic glands of the small intestine, or the mesenteric glands, are ex- tremely numerous. Several anatomists, who have had the patience to count them, have arrived at very different results, partly on account of individual varieties, and partly because several, having chosen tuberculated subjects for the purpose, have mistaken the tubercles for lymphatic glands. The mesenteric glands are situated between the folds of the mesentery, in the meshes of the network formed by the arteries and veins. Those which are nearest to the intestine are found in the intervals observed between the vessels of the mesentery close to the intestine. Those which are most distant from the intestine are situated near the adherent border of the mesentery, along the trunk of the superior mesenteric artery. The largest of these glands are found near the origin and termination of that artery. Thus we find, below, a group of large lymphatic glands, the ileo-colic, opposite the termination of the ileum in the colon. Another cluster, named the duodenal, is situated above, in front of the duodenum: they are extremely large. We generally find one larger than the rest: it is represented in the oldest works on anatomy, and has been sometimes mistaken for the pancreas. The group of ileo-colic lymphatic glands is remarkable for frequently becoming inflamed in follicular enteritis. The lymphatic glands of the great intestine, or meso-colic glands, much less numerous than those of the mesentery, generally lie along the vascular arches formed by the colic arteries and veins: several of them are situated near the posterior border of the intestine; and some are even found upon the intestine, accompanying those bloodvessels which run for a short distance be- neath the peritoneal coat, and then penetrate the muscular coat. The meso-colic lymphatic glands are not nearly so numerous along the transverse colon as along either the ascending or descending colon. Those situated in the trans- verse meso-colon form an uninterrupted chain with the mesenteric glands. The Lymphatic Vessels of the Intestines. The lymphatics of the small intestine. These vessels are divided into two sets, the lymphatics, properly so called, and the lacteals. The lymphatics, properly so called, like those of the stomach nud great in- testine, arise from two sets of networks — one in the serous, the other in the mucous coats. The vessels which pass out from these networks have a re- markable character, which was well described by Mascagni; instead of passing directly into the mesentery, they first proceed for a short distance along the intestine, and then curve and enter the mesenteric glands. ; The lacteals, or lacteal vessels of the small intestine, can be easily seen in an animal that has been killed whilst the absorption of chyle is going on in the intestine, and they have occasionally been observed in the human subj'ect, in cases of accidental death. They then appear as white, nodulated, and slightly