ANGEIOLOGY. Before proceeding to the special description of the lymphatics, we shall make some general remarks upon the origin, course, and termination of these vessels. Origin of the Lymphatics. The origin of the lymphatics, like every point connected with the minute structure of the tissues, is yet a new subject for inquiry.* It has been said that the lymphatics are continuous with the arteries, so that, according to this hypothesis, the arteries are continuous with two kinds of vessels, viz. with the lymphatics, which carry off the serum ; and with the veins, which transmit the coloured part of the blood. The continuity of the arteries with the lymphatics has been admitted, in consequence of its having been observed that injections thrown into the arteries passed into the lymphatics. I have frequently seen this in injecting the spleen and the liver ; but it was only when the injection was pushed in with great and continued force : so that it is possible, as thought by Hunter, Monro, and Meckel, that in these cases some of the vessels had been ruptured, and the injection extravasated ; or, what is still more probable, there may have been transudation through the pores of the tissues. Microscopical observations show most distinctly that the arteries are continuous with the veins; but there is no fact to demonstrate the continuity of the arteries with the lymphatics. The origin of the lymphatics can be actually shown only upon free surfaces, such as the mucous membranes, the skin, the serous and synovial membranes, and the lining membranes of arteries and veins ; so that, in the actual state of our knowledge, it might be maintained that the lymphatic vessels arise ex- clusively from all the free surfaces. All the lymphatics arise by a network of such tenuity, that, when injected with mercury, the whole surface appears changed into a metalUc layer. About eight years since, having introduced at random a tube filled with mercury for injecting the lymphatics, into the pituitary membrane in a calf, I was astonished to find the surface covered by a metallic peUicle: I re- peated the experiment frequently, and constantly found that the peUicIe was not caused by extravasation, for the mercury ran in determinate lines, forming plexuses of different kinds ; also that, to succeed in this experiment, it was ne- cessary to puncture the membrane very superficially, or the mercury would run into the subjacent plexus of veins ; and, lastly, that there was no commu- nication between that plexus of veins and the more superficial network, which I suspected to consist of lymphatic vessels, for it exactly resembled the net- work of those vessels in the peritoneum covering the liver. I ascertained that the same structure existed in the skin; in the lingual, buccal, and vaginal mucous membranes; in the conjunctiva; and, lastly, in the uterine mucous membrane of a sow, which had lately littered. I showed this lymphatic net- work of the pituitary membrane in several of my lectures; and lately having again examined the subject for the purposes of the present work, I have as- certained that this network exists upon all the free surfaces, that it commu- nicates with the lymphatics, and that it is possible to inject those vessels and the lymphatic glands by introducing the pipe very superficially into the surfaces of these membranes, t I may be permitted to observe, that it is only a few months since I became acquainted with the splendid work of M. Panizza of Pavia, upon the lymphatic vessels of the testicles (^Osservazioni Antropo-zootomico Fisio- logiche, 1830); and with M. Fohmann's last very important memoir (_Mimoire * Do lymphatics commence in all parts of the body ? It is true, that absorption is carried on in every part for absorption is one element of the process of nutrition ; but as it can oe effected by other vessels besides the lymphatics, its occurrence in any part does not necessarily involve the presence of this peculiar class of vessels. ji„„Hnn u-ith ex. t These preparations were made by M. Bonami, my prosector, under my direction, witli ex- treme skill, and a zeal above all praise.