INTERNAL STRUCTURE OF THE MEDULLA OBLONGATA. 943 tion of the two halves of the medulla oblongata and spinal cord, and leaving the decussation of the anterior pyramids. It appears then, on the one hand, that the anterior pyramids are not formed by the anterior columns of the spinal cord, and, on the other hand, that the posterior columns of the cord become separated from each other behind when they have reached the medulla oblongata. What then becomes of the -white bundles of the cord in the medulla oblongata ? Having arrived opposite the neck of the bulb, the white matter of the cord is divided into two bundles, one anterior, which forms the anterior pyramid (//, fa. 273.), and may be called the cerebral bundle, because it passes up (b') to the brain; the other posterior, or the restiform body (c e), which may be called the peduncle of the cerebellum, because it is exclusively intended (n) for that organ; the former is composed of white bundles, which emerge from the in- terior of the spinal cord, and the latter of the anterior columns, and of the remaining white bundles of the cord. The olivary bodies (d) are situated between these two sets of white fibres. When, by means of the stream of water, the anterior pyramids and the res- tiform bodies have been removed, it is seen that each half of the medulla ob- longata is formed principally of a very dense nucleus, consisting of a mixture of grey and white substances. This nucleus, or fasciculus of reinforcement of the medulla oblongata, which we shall call the unnamed fasciculus (faisceau inno- mine) of the medulla, commences opposite the decussation of the pyramids by a narrow extremity, increases in size as it proceeds upwards, passes above (I, fig. 274.) i. e. deeper than the pons, and becomes continuous as we shall afterwards see with the corresponding optic thalamus. Each half of the medulla oblongata has its fasciculus of reinforcement, of which the internal surface, viz. that turned towards the middle line, corresponds to the fasciculus of the opposite side; but is separated from itby thewhite fibres (p,fi^. 274.) already described (p. 941.) as passing horizontally from before backwards, in the median line of the me- dulla. The posterior surface these fasciculi (p,fig. 271.) constitutes the anterior wall of the fourth ventricle. The corresponding peduncles of the cerebellum, or the restiform bodies, embrace them on the outside, and form, as it were, grooves for them. On examining thoroughly the internal or median surface of each reinforcing fasciculus of the bulb, it is found that there are two vertical bands upon that surface, one anterior, the other posterior ; and that the fibres which pass horizontally from before backwards, in the median line of the medulla oblon- gata, are situated between the bands of the right and left sides. Each fasciculus of reinforcement is divided above into two parts, one of which forms the centre of the corresponding restiform body, whilst the other becomes continuous with the optic thalamus above the pons Varolii. I have not alluded to the olivary fasciculi admitted by some anatomists, for the white bundles so called do not even come from the olivary body, but form the continuation of the lateral columns of the spinal cord, which embrace the olivary bodies on the outer side, without being reinforced by any bundles derived directly from them.* * [The bundles, named faisceaux innommines in the text (fasciculi tcretes of some other authors), which M. Cruveilhier describes as talcing their rise at the lower end of the medulla oblongata, are more generally considered to be prolonged from the lateral columns of the cord • and on comparing the statements of recent inquirers concerning the anatomy of the medulla oblongata, the following appears to be the arrangement which the columns of the cord undergo in passing through it viz. the posterior columns (including the posterior median fasciculi which correspond with the posterior pyramids) separate laterally from one another (e,fles. 27.S 274.) and enter the cerebellum, formmg the principal part of its inferior peduncle (n). The f° ti"^ " ^o.'"™''^ are disposed of in three ways: 1. a part of them cross the median plane to the opposite side (w,fig 273.), and form the chief part of the pyramidal body (A) of that «ide ; 2. another set jom the inferior peduncle of the cerebellum ; .S. the remaining fibres are con inued along the floor of the fourth ventricle (p,,^.271.) as the fasciculi innominati or fasciculi teretes. The anterior columns (a, fig. 273!) of the cord, on entering the medulla ob^ longata, arc thrown aside by the decussating fibres coming from the lateral coliimns, ,ind then one portion of each anterior column forms the outer part of the corresponding pyramid (A); another VOL, II< X