THE CAVERNOUS SINUSES. 777 the posterior convolutions: they both enter the anterior extremity of the Vieussens and the superior vermiform process, and opens into the anterior extremity of the straight sinus. The Superior Petrosal Sinuses. The superior petrosal sinuses iff, ^^.221.) are situated along the upper ^ ' border of the petrous portion of the temporal Fin. 221. bones, and are partly lodged in the small cor- responding grooves; they are continuous as regards their direction ^ith the horizontal portion of each lateral sinus, and occupy the anterior half of the lateral or adherent bor- ders of the tentorium, the lateral sinuses occu- pying the posterior half. They are very small, and, like the part of the lateral sinus with which they are continuous, they are three sided. The anterior extremity of each su- perior petrosal sinus communicates with the corresponding cavernous sinus Qi h); and its posterior extremity opens into the correspond- ing lateral sinus at the point where the latter leaves the tentorium cerebelli to turn round the base of the petrous portion of the tem- poral bone. The superior petrosal sinuses, therefore, establish a direct communication between the cavernous and the lateral sinuses; they sometimes receive an inferior lateral cerebral uem,but always an anterior lateral cerebellar vein, which passes upwards under the free margin of the tentorium cerebelli behind the fifth pair of heroes. The veins which come from the sides of the pons Varolii also enter the anterior extremity of this sinus. TTie Inferior Petrosal Sinuses. The inferior petrosal sinuses (^g g) are situated, one on each side, upon the petro-occipital sutures, and lie in corresponding grooves ; each of them ex- tends from the anterior to the posterior lacerated foramen of its own side. They are larger than the superior petrosal sinuses, and are semi-cylindrical, like the anterior part of the lateral sinuses with which they are continuous. The anterior extremity of each opens into the anterior occipital sinus (r) and into the cavernous sinus of its own side ; whilst its posterior extremity opens into the anterior end of the corresponding lateral sinus, opposite the com- mencement of the internal jugular vein (s). These sinuses establish a free anastomosis between the anterior and posterior sinuses found at the base of the cranium. Excepting one vein which comes from the base of the cranium through the foramen lacerum anticus, the inferior petrosal sinus receives do vein of importance. The Cavernous Sinuses. The cavernous si7mses {h h), so named from their reticulated, and as it were spongy structure, occupy the sides of the sella turcica and the grooves on the body of the sphenoid bone. Each cavernous sinus is bounded in front by the inner part of the sphenoidal fissure, and behind by the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone: its cavity (shown on the right side in the