836 NEUROLOGY. Neurology is that part of Anatomy which treats of the apparatus of sensation and bnervation: this apparatus consists of the organs of the senses, of the cerebrospinal axis, or central portion of the nervous system, and of the nerves, or peripheral portion of that system. THE ORGANS OF THE SENSES. The Skin—its external characters, structure, and appendages The Tongue considered as the Organ of Taste. — The Organ of Smell—the nose the pituitary membrane.— The Organ of Sight — tlie eyebrows — the eyelids — the muscles of the orbit — the lachrymal apparatus — the globe of the eye, its mem- branes and humors — tlte vessels and nerves of the eye. — The Organ of Hear- ing— the external ear— the middle ear or tympanum — the internal ear or labyrinth — the nerves and vessels of the ear. The organs of the senses are certain parts of our bodies, which are intended, by means of the sensibility they possess, to establish relations between us and external objects. The organs of the senses, to use a strong figuratire expres- sion, are, as it were, the bridges which connect the individual with the world around him. (Meckel's Anatomy, by Jourdan, p. 471.) The organs of the senses, being placed between the brain and surrounding objects, hav^the following characters in common : they occupy the surface of the body; they communicate with the brain by means of nerves of greater or less size ; and, lastly, each of them has a peculiar structure in harmony with that particular quality of matter, the perception of which it is intended to convey to us. Anatomists generally admit five organs of sense, which we shall name and then describe in the following order:—the skin, or the organ of tact and touch, the organ of taste, the organ of smell, the organ of sight, and the organ of hearing. The Skin. General Remarks on the Skin. The skin, the proper organ of tact and of touch, is a membrane which serves as a covering or integument to the body, and is so accurately moulded upon it, as to preserve the form, and yet conceal the inequalities, of its entire surface. It may be regarded as forming an external surface or limit, endowed at the same time with sensibility and a, power of resistance ; enabling us by the one to per- ceive such qualities of bodies as are distinguishable by the touch, and by the other preserving us, to a certain extent, from their action. It forms, moreover, an exhalant surface, or sudorific organ, by which the system is freed from noxious substances, and also an inhalant surface, by which fluids may be ab- sorbed.* * Some ancient authors, Marcus Aurelius Severinus among others, adhering closely to the order of super-imposition, which is sometimes called the anatomical order, commenced the de- scription of the human body with the skin; and the same part, though for a very different reason is described first by M. de Blainville in his Anatomie Compared that celebrated na- turalist carrying out analogical induction to its utmost limits, makes the skin the fundamental organ of the body connecting with it all the organs of the senses, which he regards as ana- logous to hairs, and names phanerte (a word constructed by M. Blainville m opposition to the term crwtie. hidden, and derived fromevident, manifest, apparent). He consu ers that the apparatus of locomotion is a developement of the elastic element of the skin, which hecomes endowed with contractility; the digestive and respiratory organs he regards as modifications ol the absorbent apparatus of the skin; and the organs of secretion and generation as d^elope- inents of its exLilant structure. The circulatory apparatus alone is "o^''«"ved by um imme- diately from the external integuments ; yet he almost believes that it is an exlension or pro- longation of the meshes of the cutaneous cellular tissue.