THE HEPATIC VEINS. 795 two venous trunks, the union of which constitutes the vena portse, viz. the splenic and the great or superior mesenteric. The Vena PorttB. The trunk of the vma porta (i) is formed by the union of the splenic and superior mesenteric veins at an acute angle, behind the right extremity of the pancreas, in front of the vertebral column, and to the left of the vena cava in- ferior. The vena portae is larger than either of its two branches of origin, but is" smaller than the two taken together. It passes obliquely upwards and to the right side; and, after running for about four inches, reaches the left extremity of the transverse fissure of the liver, where it terminates by bifur- cating. The following are its relations dui-ing its course : anteriorly it is covered by the head of the pancreas, the second portion of the duodenum, the hepatic artery, the biliary ducts, and the lymphatics of the liver, and also by some branches from the hepatic plexus of nerves ; posteriorly it is covered by that portion of peritoneum which dips behind the vessels of the liver into the foramen of Winslow, to line the sac of the great omentum. By this foramen it is separated from the inferior vena cava, the direction of which it crosses at a very acute angle. The two branches into which the vena portae divides in the transverse fissure of the liver separate so widely from each other, that they seem to form a trunk, at right angles to which the vena portae itself is attached. Some anatomists apply the term sinus of the vena porta to that portion of the vein which is situated in the transverse fissure: that part of the vein which adheres to the liver is more commonly called the hepatic portion of the vena portte, to distin- guish it from the free and floating part, which is named the abdominal portion. The two divisions of the vena portae pass horizontally each towards the corresponding lobe of the liver: they soon divide and subdivide into diverging branches, which supply all the granules or lobules of the liver. The branches of the vena portse are accompanied by the ramifications of the hepatic artery and bUiary ducts. The capsule of Glisson, or the fibrous coat of the liver, is reflected upon them, and forms a common shoath for them. (See Liver.) Before birth, the hepatic portion (p,fig. 164.) of the vena portae receives, besides the abdominal portion of the same vein, the umbilical vein («), which is obliterated soon after birth. Nevertheless, 1 once found it perfectly per- meable in an adult.* Before birth the ductus venosus (rf) extends from the hepatic portion of the portal vein to the vena cava inferior, between which and the vena portae it establishes a direct communication. This hepatic portion might therefore be named the confluence of the veins of the liver. The Hepatic Veins. The capillary radicles of the hepatic or supra-hepatic veins commence in the capillary divisions of the vena porta;, and, gradually uniting into larger and larger branches, converge towards the posterior border of the liver, or rather towards the fissure for the vena cava inferior, at which point they terminate by an indefinite number of small branches, named the small hepatic veins, which open all along the fissure; and also by two principal trunks, the great hepatic veins, which end in the vena cava immediately before it passes into the opening in the diaphragm. One of these great hepatic veins comes from the right lobe, and the other from the left lobe of the liver. The vein of the left side often receives a great number of branches from the right lobe of the liver, and is larger than the vein of the right side. Ihe vena cava inferior is always dilated into a large ampulla opposite the openings of the hepatic veins. o r- rr * Anat. Pathol, livraison 17.