782 ANGEIOLOGY. to all the branches given off by the internal maxillary artery upon the tuber- osity of the superior maxilla and in the pterygo-maxillary fossa. Thus it is joined by the middle meningeal veins. The vence comites of the; middle meningeal artery, the existence of which has been erroneously denied, are two in number, and are situated, one in front, the other behind the artery. These veins often receive some inferior and anterior cerebral veins, which enter them near the foramen spinosum of the sphenoid ; they always receive veins from the bones of the cranium and from the dura mater, and commu- nicate with the superior longitudinal sinus; they are sometimes so large, es- pecially the anterior branch, that they have deep grooves formed for them upon the sphenoidal fossa, reaching from the foramen spinosum to the point of the great ala of the sphenoid bone. Lastly, the distribution of the middle meningeal veins is similar to that of the corresponding artery. The internal maxillary vein is also joined by the inferior dental, by the deep teniporal, by the pterygoid, and by the posterior masseteric veins. All of these veins communicate with a very large and important venous plexus, the pterygoid plexus, situated between the temporal and external pterygoid muscles and between the two pterygoid muscles. In this plexus, which com- municates freely with the alveolar plexus, so freely indeed that they may be regarded as forming but a single plexus, the internal maxillary vein com- mences and joins the temporal vein, behind the neck of the condyle of the lower jaw. The temporo-maxillary trunk, thus formed by the junction of the temporal with the internal maxillary vein, is much larger than the former vein, and continues its course through the substance of the parotid gland ; it is joined directly by some parotid veins, by the posterior and anterior auricular veins, and lastly by the transverse veins of the face. The last named veins form, between the parotid gland and the masseter muscle {i,fig.2\^.), between that muscle and the ramus of the lower jaw and around the temporo-maxillary articulation, a very large plexus, named the masseteric plexus, which commu- nicates freely with the pterygoid plexus through the sigmoid notch. Termination of the temporo-maxillary trunk. Most commonly the temporo- maxillary vein or trunk terminates directly in the external jugular vein (A); at other times it enters the internal jugular, and then there is merely a trace of the external jugular, which is formed principally by the superficial branches of the occipital vein, and by some communicating branches from the anterior jugular. In some cases the temporo-maxillary vein is almost equally divided between the internal and external jugulars; lastly, it is sometimes united to the lingual and the facial vein : when it ends in the external jugular, it sends to the internal jugular a large communicating branch which passes above the digastric muscle. The Posterior Auricular Vein. The posterior auricular vein follows the distribution of the artery of that name ; it receives the stylo-mastoid vein, and enters the external jugular, or rather the temporo-maxillary vein, which does not take the name of external jugular until after it is joined by this vein. The Occipital Vein. The occipital vein is distributed in the same manner as the occipital artery ; it commences at the back of the cranium, passes beneath the splenius muscle, and is joined opposite the mastoid process by one or more large mastoid veins, which come from the corresponding lateral sinus, establishing a direct and free communication between the venous circulation in the interior and exterior of the cranium. It was this that led Morgagni to prefer the occipital veins for the purpose of bloodletting in apoplexy. The occipital vein ends in the in- ternal, and sometimes in the external jugular.