NEUROLOGY. 1078 The Sacral Plexus, The sacral plexus (Jig. 290.) is formed by the four upper sacral nerves (1 to 4) and the lumbo-sacral nerve (t) from the lumbar plexus; the three superior sacral nerves pass entirely into this plexus ; the fourth nerve only sends one of its divisions to it. The lumbo-sacral trunk or nerve, -which emanates from the lumbar plexus, is formed by the whole of the fifth lumbar nerve added to a branch from the fourth. This great nervous trunk establishes a free con- nexion between the lumbar and sacral plexuses, which in fact constitute only one plexus, which may be called the lumbo-sacral. I would here recall to mind that there is a precisely similar arrangement with regard to the cervical and brachial plexuses, to which the lumbar and sacral plexuses have an un- doubted analogy. The sacral plexus is distinguished by its simplicity from most other plexuses, which are always more or less complicated. It is formed by the convergence of five cords towards the sciatic notch. As the lumbo-sacral cord is vertical, and the third and fourth sacral nerves are horizontal, it follows that the form of the sacral plexus resembles a triangle, the base of which measures the entire length of the sacrum, while its apex corresponds to that portion of the sciatic notch which is situated above the spine of the ischium. The great sciatic nerve (s) is the continuation of this plexus, which, as Bichat judiciously remarked, is merely the sciatic nerve itself flattened from before backwards, the intricacy of arrangement so evident in the plexus representing that which exists in all nervous cords. The following are the relations of the sacral plexus: it rests behind upon the pyriformis, and it corresponds in front to the internal iliac vessels, from which it is separated by a layer of fascia: these vessels also separate the plexus from the rectum and peritoneum. Of the collateral branches some are anterior, namely, the visceral nerves, which enter the hypogastric plexus; the nerve for the levator ani; the nerve for the obturator intemus; the internal pudic nerve: the other collateral branches are posterior, namely, the superior gluteal nerve; the inferior gluteal or lesser sciatic nerve; the nerve for the pyriformis ; the nerve for the gemelli; and the nerve for the quadratus femoris. The great sciatic nerve is the only terminal branch of the sacral plexus. The Collateral Branches of the Sacral Plexus. The Visceral Nerves. Dissection. After having made a section of the pelvis at one side of the symphysis, turn the bladder and the rectum over to the same side ; carefully detach the peritoneum, which is reflected from the pelvis upon these viscera; lacerate the cellular tissue to reach the branches given off from the fourth nerve - and then trace the rectal and visceral nerves, foUowmg the annexed description. It is advantageous to empty the large veins of the pelvis, and to soak it in water for some time previously to dissecting these nerves. The visceral nerves do not, properly speaking, come from the sacral plexus, but rather directly from the fourth and fifth sacral nerves; they are three or fourTn ntmber, ^d pass upwards upon the sides of the rectum and bladder m [he mde,Td of the rectum, vagina,'and bladder, in the female ; some of them are distributed directly to those organs, but the greater number {y. Jig. 302 ) Tnter Se hypogastric plexus (m), wWch will be described with the sympathetic system. The Nerves for the Levator Ani. Besides several rectal and vesical filaments which go to the ^vator ani, this muscle receives two filaments directly from the fourth sacral nerve (4 Jig. 290.),