ANGEIOLOGY. 764 in order to obtain as perfect an injection as possible, it is necessary to throw in the fluid simultaneously at several points and in several directions. Thus, a pipe may be placed in the vena cava superior, into which the injection should be pushed from the heart towards the extremities; another in the upper part of the cephalic or basilic vein of the right side ; a third in the dorsal vein of the left thumb ; a fourth in the right femoral vein ; and, lastly, one in the left internal saphenous vein. In all these vessels, excepting in the vena cava, the injection should be thrown from the extremities towards the heart. The injection of the veins from the arteries, which was proposed by Jankius, is doubly inconvenient; first, because both veins and arteries would be coloured alike, whichwouldmake it diflScult to distinguish between them; and, secondly, because we must use a very thin liquid, which would not become firm. The most convenient injection mass is a coloured glue-size, because it sets slowly. If tallow he used, the subject must be placed in warm water. The dissection of the veins, as well as that of the arteries, consists in sepa- rating them from surrounding parts, and preserving their relations as much as possible. Method of Description. In describing the veins, we may either follow the course of the blood, and trace the veins from the extremities to the heart, or we may pursue an op- posite direction, and trace them from the heart to the extremities. I shall adopt a combination of the two methods ; that is to say, I shall commence with the trunks, and pass in succession to the larger and then to the smaller branches ; but in the particular description of each vein, I shall consider it as originating at the point most remote from, and terminating at the point nearest to, the heart. DESCRIPTION OF THE VEINS. THE PULMONARY VEINS. Preparation.—Description. — Relations. — Size. — Peculiarities. Preparation. These veins may be traced from the heart towards their terminations. The facility with which injections pass from the pulmonary arteries into the pulmonary veins should be borne in mind. There are four pulmonary veins (J I, mm, fig. n\.), two for each lung, which open separately into the left auricle. Not unfrequently, however, there are five; three for the right, and two for the left lung. Sometimes the two left pulmonary veins seem to unite immediately before openmg mto this The trunks of these veins, each of which corresponds to a lobe of the lung, pass out of that organ in front of the corresponding pulmonary artery. The two upper veins of the right lung generally unite into a smgle trunk, which descends towards the root of the lung, whilst the inferior trunk runs hori- zontally In the interior of each lobule, the puhnonary veins commence from the ultimate ramifications of the pulmonary artery, and unite into a single branch which emerges from the lobule in contact with the corresponding arterv ' These venous branches successively unite, so as to form a smgle trunk for each lobe of the lung. There are, therefore, three frunks for the right luL and two for the left; but the trunk from the middle lobe of the right lung soon ^tel to that from' the upper lobe. . The ^f^^^^^.T'^.^'S^o^'Zi's the upper lobe lies in front of that belongmg to the lower lobe; it also passes obliqueTy downwards and outwards, while that which belongs to the lower lobe^Ss horizontally. These four trunks open into the four angles of the