THE HEART. 649 and larger than that of the superior cava ; the inferior cava sometimes forms an ampulla or dilatation before it enters the auricle ; its orifice, unlike that of the superior cava, is provided with a remarkable semilunar valve, the valvula Eustachii (n), which surrounds the anterior half, and sometimes two thirds of this opening. Its free margin is concave, and directed upwards ; its adherent border is convex, and directed downwards ; one of its surfaces is turned forwards towards the auricle, the other backwards towards the vessel; one of its ex- tremities appears to be continuous with the margin of the fossa ovalis (s), and the other is lost upon the margin of the opening of the inferior cava. The valve of Eustachius closes the orifice of that vein very imperfectly. In its upper two thirds it is extremely thin, and resembles the valves of the veins; its lower third contains a muscular fasciculus. The orifice of the coronary vein is placed immediately in front of the pre- ceding, from which it is separated by the Eustachian valve. It is sometimes situated at the bottom of a small cavity or vestibule. It is provided with a very thin semilunar valve {valvula Thebesii; below and behind the bristle),which exactly resembles the valves of the veins, and completely covers the mouth of the vessel. The upper extremity of this valve is continuous with the lower end of the Eustachian valve. The inter-auricular orifice. In the foetus, the inter-auricular septum is per- forated behind and below by an opening improperly called the fijramen of Botal, for it was known to Galen, who described a free communication between the auricles. After birth, we find in the situation of the foramen ovale a fossa (fossa ovalis, vestigium foraminis ovalis), or rather a plane surface, which is generally smooth, but occasionally uneven, and as it were reticulated; it is bounded in front and above by a semicircular ridge or border (s), which is im- properly called the isthmus or annulus Vieussenii, and may be regarded as a more or less perfect sphincter. Behind, the fossa ovalis is continuous with the vena cava inferior; the semicircular ridge or border of the fossa ovalis is formed by a curved muscular fasciculus, sometimes very thick, the concavity of which is directed backwards ; the inferior extremity of the fasciculus is con- tinuous with the Eustachian valve. The fossa ovalis is frequently found to be prolonged beneath the semicircular border or annulus, so as to form a sort of cul-de-sac, the bottom of which is often perforated, and the handle of a scalpel may not unfrequently be in- troduced through this opening into the left auricle, although no morbid phe- ^nomenon may have been observed during life. The fasciculated and reticulated portion of the auricle. Upon the internal sur- face of the auricle, to the right of the vena cava, are observed certain muscular fasciculi or fleshy columns (musculi pectinati auricula:), which are directed ver- tically from the auricula towards the am-iculo-ventricular orifice. These fas- ciculi adhere to the auricle on one side only; they are intersected by other oblique and smaller bundles, which give a reticulated aspect to the inner sur- face of the auricle. Cavity of the auricula. The auricula, or that portion of the auricle which extends from the vena cava superior to the bottom of the appendix, consists of an areolar or cavernous structure, exactly resembling that which has been de- scnbed m the ventricles. The same cavernous structure is found in other parts of the auricle, aud in particular near the orifice of the coronary vein. ■ 1 agree with Halier* and Boyer, in denying the existence of the tubercle of Lower, described by that anatomist as situated (at m) between the openings of the venae cava;. ^ o _ It is generaUy admitted, that a certain number of small veins open into the right auricle by minute orifices without valves. We find, in fact, some openings resembling vascular orifices, and known under the name of the e)cne'rimenta"nullT«t"'!wnS^^^ ^^^^ "sscriptoribus quibus occ.isio ad propria