DEVELOPEMENT OF THE ISTHMUS ENCEPHALI. 953 rounded masses of grey matter, placed upon the radiated fibres of a -white bundle, which spreads out beneath them. This -white bundle (forming part of the bundle h,Jig. 274.), which he caUs the fillet or loop, is derived (c), according to him, partly from the anterior pyramidal, and partly from the ohvary body (d). It appears to me to be nothing more than the above-mentioned loop formed by the superior peduncles of the cerebellum, belovr the tubercula qua- drigemina. i • The tubercula quadrigemina themselves seem to me to be rather ot a lami- nated than of a fasciculated structure. Mayo represents them as having a fasciculated texture, The triangular lateral fasciculus of the isthmus (/j,_^sf. 272.) passes m one direction between the upper and middle strata of the isthmus, and in another it may be traced (forming the other part of the bundle, h,fig. 274.) down-wards as far as the olivary body. The anterior fibres extend from the testis (g) to the corpus geniculatum internum (v), pass beneath that body, and penetrate into the interior of the optic thalamus. This triangular fasciculus forms a lay er upon the superior peduncle of the cerebellum, from which it is perfectly dis- tinct. Sections of the Isthmus of the Encephalon. A vertical section made from before backwards through the median line of the isthmus will give an excellent view of its three portions or strata: the section should include the medulla oblongata (see fig. 274.). Upon it are seen the white and grey striated mass (»i b'm) which constitutes the pons, the re- inforcing fasciculus (I) of the medulla oblongata becoming much thicker opposite the peduncles of the cerebrum than in the pons. Transverse vertical sections will display the arrangement of the pyramidal bodies and the reinforcing fasciculi as they pass from the medulla oblongata into the isthmus. In these sections a thick bundle belonging to the fifth nerve is always seen. Sections of the tubercula quadrigemina show that they are neither distinct from each other, nor from the external and internal corpora geniculata, nor from the reinforcing fasciculi of the medulla oblongata; but that these latter fasciculi and the tubercula quadrigemina form a single system, surmounted by masses of nervous matter, which are the tubercles themselves. Developement of the Isthmus Encephali. The de-velopement of the pons and of the peduncles of the cerebellum is in relation with that of the cerebellum ; and the developement of the cerebral peduncles with that of the cerebrum. In the embryo of two months, the tubercula quadrigemina consist merely of two laminae, which curve upwards and outwards, and become united at the end of the third month. At this period the tubercula quadrigemina of the human subject are in the same condition as those of the lower animals. They are as yet indeed only two in number, one on each side of the middle line; and they are hollow as in birds. At first they are completely exposed, but are gradually covered by the hemispheres of the cerebrum, as those parts are prolonged backwards. The transverse groove which divides the hitherto single pair of tubercles mto an anterior and a posterior tubercle on each side, does not appear until about the sixth month, at which time the cavity in their interior has been obliterated by the thickening of their parietes.* * "if J'f °^ »no°"'8 I found the tubercula quadrigemina not yet divided into tlio