933 SECTIONS OF THE CORD. U 4 Internal Structure of the Spinal Cord. The foUowine results regarding the stnicture of the cord have heen ob- tained by various modes of investigation-by making sections of it; by acting upon it with a stream of water; by hardening it in alcohol and dissecting it; by studying its development; and lastly, by a reference to its comparative anatomy, which appears to be necessary to complete the knowledge acquired by the other means of investigation. Seciions of the Cord. It appears from an examination of the external structure of the spinal cord, that it consists of two white juxtaposed cylinders; that the surfaces by which these cylinders correspond are flat, closely in contact, and united together by a median commissure ; and that each of them may be divided into two columns, the one posterior and smaller, of which the posterior median column is only an appendage ; the other, antero-lateral, which forms two thirds of the circum- ference of the cylinder. Horizontal sections. If various horizontal sections be made through different parts of the spinal cord, we see that each half consists of a cylinder of white substance containing grey substance in its interior (see fig. 269. D) ; that the median commissure is composed of a white layer (white com- missure) and a grey layer (grey commissure) ; and that in each section the grey matter has a tolerably close resem- blance in form to the letter x, the two halves or curves of which are joined in the middle by a horizontal line, whilst the extremities of the curves are directed towards the origins of the anterior and posterior roots of the nerves. The pos- terior extremities reach much nearer to the surface than the anterior. We perceive also in these different sections,- that the circumference of the cord is not perfectly regular, but is somewhat sinuous, as we shall presently mention. The size of the central grey mass in each half of the spinal ° cord, the length and thickness of the prolongations or points, which it sends off towards the anterior and posterior e' i'a, roots, and lastly, the thickness of the grey commissure, pre- sent many varieties, according to the place of section * ; and •jClMf) hence there is a discrepancy between different authors as to e'j, the appearances of this section. Thus Huber compared the section of the grey matter to an os hyoides, Monro to a cross, Keuffel to four rays converging towards a central point. Rolando has given figures of sections of the cord at every part of its length. From sections of the cord, the general fact is established, that the white substance incloses the grey matter. The thin layer of grey matter on the surface of the cord admitted by Monro, has been justly rejected by all ana- tomists. The relative situation of the two substances in the cord, which is the reverse of what is observed in the brain,- has attracted the attention of anatomists, and various explanations of greater or less ingenuity, but all hy- pothetical, have been given of this fact. According to Rolando, there are two kinds of grey matter in the cord, one occupying the anterior, and the other the posterior half of the cylinder ; and these two halves are fitted into each other by a series of indentations, like the bones of the cranium. * I would recommend five sections of tlie cord, which appear to me to give a very accurate notiun of its internal structure — the first should be immediately below the decussation of the pyramids, the second through the middle of the brachial enlargement, the third through the dorsal constricted part, the fourth through the middle of the lumbar enlargement, and the fil^h near the apex of the cone formed by tlic lumbar enlargement.