732 ANGEIOLOGY. ARTERIES ARISING FROM THE TERMINATION OF THE AORTA. Enumeration.— The middle sacral—The common iliacs.— The internal iliac, or hypogastric — the umbilical — the vesical—the middle hamorrhoidal — the uterine — the vaginal—the obturator — the ilio-lumbar — the lateral sacral — the gluiceal — the sciatic — the internal pndic. —Summary of the dis- tribution of the internal iliac.—Artery of the lower extremity. — The ex- ternal iliac — the epigastric — the circumflex iliac. —The femoral— the su- perficial epigastric — the external pndic — the muscular — the deep femoral, its circumflex and perforating branches. — The popliteal and its collateral branches. — The anterior tibial and the dorsal artery of the foot. — The tibio-peroneal — peroneal—posterior tibial, and the internal and external plantar. —Comparison between the arteries of the upper and lower extremities. The arteries arising from the termination of the aorta are the middle sacral and the two common iliac arteries. The Middle Sacral Artery. The middle or anterior sacral artery (n,fig. 199.), the small median artery of the sacrum, arises from the lower and hack part of the aorta, a little above its termination. Like the aorta, it is a single -vessel, and seems to be the con- tinuation of it, as far as direction is concerned ; which, indeed, is really the case in such animals as are provided with a tail. Sometimes, but rarely, it arises from the left common iliac, or the last lumbar artery. I have seen it arise by a common trunk with the two lower lumbar arteries. It passes vertically downwards in front of the fifth lumbar vertebra, the sacrum and the coccyx being closely applied to them all. It is situated in the median line at its origin, but sometimes deviates to one side or the other. In size it is scarcely equal to one of the lumbar arteries, and it gradually diminishes from its origin to the first bone of the coccyx, towards the apex of which it terminates in a very variable manner. The size of the middle sacral is generally inversely proportioned to that of the lowest lumbar arteries. When the aorta divides higher than ordinarily, and the last lumbar is given off from the middle sacral, the last named artery is of course unusually large. During its course, the middle sacral gives off, opposite the fifth lumbar and each of the sacral vertebrsc, a right and left lateral branch, which correspond with the series of intercostal and lumbar arteries. The two lumbar branches are generally small, but are very large when the fifth lumbar arteries are neither furnished by the aorta, nor by the fourth lumbar, nor by the ilio- lumbar. The lateral branches given off upon the sacrum pass transversely outwards, supply twigs to the periosteum and bone, and anastomose with the lateral sacral, the place of which they sometimes supply within the interior of the sacral canal. The middle sacral having become very slender near the base of the coccyx, bifurcates in order to form an anastomotic arch with the right and left lateral sacral arteries. I have seen its lower end divided into three branches, of which the median was prolonged as far as the tip of the coccyx, whilst the lateral branches anastomosed with the lateral sacral arteries. The Common Iliac Arteries. The primitive or common iliac arteries {ii,figs 199. 212.), the two branches into which the aorta subdivides, commence opposite the lower margin of the fourth lumbar vertebra, and terminate by bifurcating opposite the base of the