THE BRANCHES OF THE HYPO-GLOSSAL NERVE. 1141 K K 4 the olivary and pyramidal bodies, by a row of filaments collected into two very distinct fasciculi, whicb proceed to the anterior condyloid foramen (q, fig. 296.), perforate the dura mater separately, and join together so as to emerge from the canal in the form of a rounded cord.* After leaving the anterior condyloid canal, the hypo-glossal nerve (d,fig. 301.) descends vertically between the internal carotid, which is on its inner side, and the internal jugular on its outer side. At first it lies behind the pneumogastric ( 8 to p), it then crosses very obliquely over the outer side, and lower down it gets in front of that nerve, around which therefore it describes a semi-spiral. Having arrived below the posterior belly of the digastric muscle, the hypo- glossal changes its direction and runs forwards and downwards (d, fig. 300.), crossing in front of the internal and external carotids [and hooking beneath the occipital artery], it is then reflected upwards to reach the under surface of the tongue (d near x), and thus describes a loop having the concavity turned upwards, parallel to and below the digastricus, and almost ten lines above the OS hyoides. Relations. It is situated deeply in its vertical portion, where it runs along the vertebral column, becomes superficial in its middle portion (d^fig. 298.), where it is merely separated from the skin by the platysma and the promi- nence of the sterno-mastoid, and again becomes deep-seated anteriorly, where it rests on the hyo-glossus muscle, and is covered by the anterior belly of the digastricus and by the stylo-hyoideus, and then by the submaxillary gland and the mylo-hyoideus, after which it enters the genio-glossus, and is lost in the substance of the tongue. The relations of the hypo-glossal nerve and the lingual artery are worthy of remark. The nerve is at first parallel to and above the artery, is soon se- parated from it by the hyo-glossus, and then rejoins it in front of that muscle. In the substance of the tongue, the artery lies to the outer side of the genio- glossus, while the nerve runs forwards through the fibres of the muscle. The Collateral Branches of the Hypoglossal Nerve. Some of these are anastomotic. Thus, as it crosses the three divisions of the eighth nerve, the hypo-glossal lies in contact with the pneumogastric nerve, with which it sometimes communicates by very delicate filaments. Most commonly the anastomosis between these two nerves forms a true plexus, f This communication is sometimes effected with the anastomotic branch of the spinal accessory, sometimes with the pneumogastric itself. The hypo-glossal is also connected by a very small anastomotic twig to the superior cervical ganglion. It also receives three filaments from the nervous loop formed by the union of the first and second cervical nerves, namely, two from the first nerve and one from the second. The superior filament from the first nerve ascends, an ar- rangement which it is difficult to understand, for it passes in a direction towards the roots of the hypo-glossal; if it be supposed that this filament is derived from the hypo-glossal, then it is directed towards the roots of the first cervical nerve. Opposite to the anterior border of the hyo-glossus it gives off a very re- markable anastomotic branch which forms an arch with the Ungual nerve. ihe other collateral branches which it gives off are the descending branch; & small muscular infra-hyoid branch; and the branches for the hm-glossus and styb-glossus. ^ + ri^ll^ ■ '""^JuTu'* Bituated in front of the filaments of the hypo-glossal, hvni Hl=.?n 'r' ' observed that the descendens noni (a branch of the U^'^nl^k ] somcfmcs arises m part or entirely from the pneumogastric lower dowu iu