ANGEIOLOGY. 654 in the first place of a non-muscular portion, which may be called the confluence oj the vencB cavm (simis venosus) ; in it there is only one small muscular bundle situated immediately to the right of the orifice of the vena cava superior ; and secondly of a muscular portion, which resembles a sort of grating and is com- prised between two fasciculi, one a circular bundle, surrounding the auriculo- ventricular orifice'; the other a very prominent semilunar bundle, interposed between the vena cava inferior and the auricula, and forming a vertical or rather an oblique arch, which terminates to the right of the inferior cava. Muscular fibres of the auricula:. The walls of the left auricula present a cavernous or areolar structure, in the middle of which we see a central canal, which opens into the interior of the auricle by a distinct orifice. There is not in general any central canal in the right auricula, but only an areolar or ca- vernous structure. The muscular fibres of the inter-auricular septum form a muscular ring for the border of the fossa ovalis (so incorrectly termed the isthmus or annulus of Vieussens), which must be regarded as a true sphincter, consisting of two thirds, three fourths, or even an entire circle. The fibres of which it is formed arise from the auriculo-venti-icular orifice, near the septum. Some muscular fibres are often found in the substance of the floor of the fossa ovalis. The other muscular fibres of the septum are continuous with the circular fibres of the auricles. Separation of the Two Hearts. Dissection. Divide the anterior fibres of the ventricles carefully, layer by layer, parallel to the anterior furrow. Then separate the two ventricles, by means of the finger or the handle of the scalpel. In order to separate the auricles, carry the scalpel along the posterior inter-auricular furrow, being particularly careful upon arriving at the fossa ovalis. It is often possible to separate the auricles completely without opening either of them. The division of the heart into the right and the left heart is not merely imag- inary or theoretical, but is capable of actual demonstration. After making the beautiful preparation described above, we find that the left convex ven- tricle is received into a corresponding concavity in the right ventricle ; the two are therefore adapted to each other, and their mutual reception is rendered complete by means of the infundibuliform prolongation of the right ventricle. On the other hand, the right auricle is convex, and is received into a cor- responding concavity in the left auricle. By placing the two halves of the heart together, we see clearly the position of the aortic opening behind and to the right side of the pulmonary, the crossing of the aorta and the pulmonary artery in the form of the letter X; the relation of the aorta with the base of the right ventricle, and its situation between the right auriculo-ventricular orifice, which is behind, and the infundi- bulifonn prolongation of the right ventricle, which is in front of it. This last relation explains how a communication may take place between the aorta and the right ventricle. The separation of the two sides of the heart also enables us to judge accurately of the shape and the relative size of the two ventricles, the regular conical form of the left ventricle, the prismatic and triangular form of the right ven- tricle, the left wall of which is as it were pushed inwards by the corresponding projection of the left ventricle. We can also ascertain the shape and relative size of the two auricles. Vessels, Nerves, and Cellular Tissue. Arteries. The heart receives certain proper arteries, called cardiac or coro- nary, from their being arranged in the form of a circle or crown. They are two in number, and are the first branches given off by the aorta. They form