NEUROLOGY. 1146 sympathetic nerves -will be described with the ganglia to which they are con- nected. I shall describe in succession the cervical, the thoracic, the abdominal, and Fig. 302. the pelvic portion of the sympathetic. I have already said that I do not re- cognise any proper cephalic portion of this system of nei-ves, for the ophthalmic and the other cranial ganglia seem to me to belong to a totally different class. The Cervical Poktion op the Sym- pathetic System. The cervical portion of the sympathetic (/ ^ fi9- 302.) has this peculiarity that, instead of being composed of as many ganglia as there are vertebrae, it has only two or three. This may be ex- plained by supposing that the superior cervical ganglion represents by itself the ganglia which are wanting. It will here- after be seen that the lumbar ganglia are rather frequently fused in a similar manner. The cervical portion of the sympathetic is situated on the anterior region of the vertebral column, behind the internal and common carotid arteries, the internal jugular vein and the pneumo- gastric nerve (jo). It is connected to all these parts, and to the prsevertebral muscles, by some very loose cellular tis- sue ; a layer of fascia intervening be- tween them; it commences by a large fusiform ganglion, the superior cervical ganglion {f); this is succeeded by a nervous cord of variable size, which terminates in the middle cervical ganglion (a) when that exists, but when it is absent in the inferior cervical ganglion (i), which is continuous with the first thoracic gan- glion, either directly, or through the medium of two or three very remarkable nervous loops, or frequently by both me- thods of connexion. We shall proceed to examine the three cervical ganglia. The Superior Cervical Ganglion. Dissection. Remove the correspond- ing ramus of the lower jaw, separate the ganglion very carefully from the pneumogastric, glosso-pharyngeal, and hypo-glossal nerves, behind which it is placed. In order to trace the superior or carotid branch, make an antero-pos- terior median section of the head, open the foramen lacerum posterius from beUnd in the manner indicated for ex- posing the pneumogastric, and then examme the ganglion and its superior branch from the inner side.