116G NEUROLOGY. small splanchnic nerve, which is shared between the solar and the renal plexus. Some small gangliform nodules are occasionally found upon the course of these branches, among which are some very delicate filaments, which evidently pass into the bodies of the lumbar vertebrae. All these internal branches assist in the formation of the lumbar splanchnic, or pelvic visceral nerves. The Lumbar Splanchnic Nerves and the Visceral Plexuses in the Pelvis. The lumbar splanchnic nerves (at k) pass inwards in front of the aorta, be- low the superior mesenteric artery, and anastomose with each other and with those of the opposite side to form a very complicated plexus, which is com- pleted by a very considerable prolongation from the superior mesenteric plexus. This plexus (n), which may be called the lumbo-aortic plexus, surrounds all that portion of the aorta which is included between the superior and in- ferior mesenteric arteries ; in the intervals between the nervous filaments are found lymphatic glands, which should be carefully distinguished from some nervous ganglia which form part of the plexus. The lumbo-aortic plexus is bifurcated below ; one portion of it passes upon the inferior mesenteric artery to constitute the greater part of the inferior me - senteric plexus (below n) ; whilst the other portion descends upon the aorta, and even a little below the bifurcation of that vessel, and ends between the common iliac arteries, in front of the sacro-vertebral angle, from which it is separated by the common iliac veins. Some filaments are prolonged around the common iliac and the external and internal iliac arteries and their branches. The aortic portion of the lumbo-aortic plexus bifurcates below into two se- condary plexiform cords, one right and the other left, which pass downwards upon the sides of the rectum and bladder, and enter the right and left hypo- gastric plexuses, which are almost entirely formed by these cords. The Hypogastric Plexuses. The hypogastric plexuses (m) are among the great plexuses of the body ; they supply the rectum and the bladder in both sexes, and also the prostate and testicle in the male, and the vagina, uterus, and Fallopian tubes in the female. There are two hypogastric plexuses, one on the right, the other on the left side. They are situated upon the lateral and inferior surfaces of the rectum and bladder in the male, and of the rectum, vagina, and bladder in the female; they are distinct from each other, and are connected not by median anas- tomoses, which 1 have never been able to detect, but through the lumbo-aortic plexus, by the bifurcation and spreading out of which they may be said to be formed. The hypogastric plexuses from the enlargement and areolar dis- position of their component cords, very closely resemble the solar plexus. Each plexus is formed essentially by one of the two divisions of the lumbo- aortic plexus ; it is also joined by some filaments from the inferior mesenteric plexus, by some very small twigs from the sacral ganglia, among which those derived from the third sacral ganglion are especially remarkable ; and lastly by some twigs from the anterior branches of the sacral nerves (see Sacral Nerves). Formed by a combination of filaments from these different sources, each hvpogastric plexus gives off a hemorrhoidal, a vesical, a vaginal, a utenne, and a spermatic or ovarian plexus ; all of these plexuses, like the hypogastric plexus itself, are found on each side of the body. . The inferior hcemorrhoidal plexuses are blended with the superior hsemorr- hoidal plexuses which, as already stated, are the terminations of '"f^n^ mesenteric clexus ; they pass behind and m front of the rectum. The filaments S7ng t^SterioVbranches of the sacral nerves may be distm^-^^^^ from those belonging to the sympathetic system, by the difference in the colour of the two kinds of nerves.