NEUROLOGY. 85G The Pituitary Membrane. The pituitary or Schneiderian ♦ membrane, the immediate seat of smell, is a fibro-mucous membrane, which lines the whole extent of the nasal fossse, and is prolonged, with some modifications of texture, into the difiFerent cells and sinuses which open into those fossa;. When covered with this membrane, the nasal fossae present a configuration differing in many respects from that which they have in the skeleton. Many of the foramina and canals are closed, and several are contracted in their di- mensions. The irregularities of the surface of the turbinated bones are, in some measure, concealed. Besides this, the mucous membrane, where it is reflected upon itself, forms a number of folds, some of which prolong the turns of the turbinated bones ; whilst others, more or less, contract the orifices of communication between the various cells and sinuses and the nasal fossae. The pituitary membrane, originating then, on the one hand, from the skin, which is reflected at the margins of the nares, and provided with hairs (h, fig. 233.), is, on the other hand, continuous, without any line of demarcation, with the mucous membranes of the pharynx and velum palati (at t s), of the Eusta- chian tubes (at m), and of the nasal ducts (at r). In the roof of each nasal fossa (u v) it closes the foramina of the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, and those of the nasal bones, so that all the vessels and nerves which pass through these foramina enter the mucous membrane by its external surface ; before it enters into the sphenoidal sinus, it forms a fold around the orifice of that sinus, by which the opening is narrowed, so as to have the form of a vertical fissure (see the bristle marked d). Upon the external wall of each nasal fossa (see fig. 233.) f, it covers a great number of parts, counting from below upwards, viz. the inferior meatus, at the upper and anterior part of which it meets with the lower orifice of the nasal duct (r, figs. 233, 234.); around this opening it forms a semilunar valvular fold, the free margin of which is directed downwards, and which prolongs the canal of the ducts to a greater or less distance in different sub- jects ; in passing a probe into the nasal duct from the inferior meatus, this valve must, almost of necessity, be torn. From the inferior meatus the pituitary membrane is reflected upon the inferior turbinated bone (c c,figs. 233, 234.), which appears longer in the recent state, in consequence of a fold of the mucous membrane being contmued m front, and another still more marked behind the bone; this is the thickest part of the nasal mucous membrane. . ^ . r i » In the middle meatus (i) the pituitary membrane covers the infundtbulum, at the lower extremity of which is an ampulla or dilatation, where the orifice of the maxillary sinus is generally found. This orifice (see bristle, a, fig. 234.) has a very different appearance from that which it presents m the dried skull: it is extremely narrow, scarcely admitting the blunt end of a common probe. » Pnnnd Victor Schneider (de Catarrho) gave his name to this membrane, because he wa, ^'MTnThiTligure! pt'tU?.^^^^ -d inferior conch, are represe,.tod as cut away, to show the parts in the middle and inferior meatuses.]