1028 NEUROLOGY. itself injected ? Bogros believed that it was, and he even asserted that he had seen a central canal with the naked eye; but no such canal exists; and the one which he showed after desiccation of an injected nerve was artificially made, as we shall immediately find. How, indeed, can we admit the ex- istence of a canal in nervous matter, which we have shown to consist of a pencil of parallel and juxtaposed filaments ? If therefore, in the central injection, the mercury neither enters into the nervous matter, nor is contained in the neurilemma, where is it situated ? Is it in lymphatic vessels ? We do not know ; for lymphatics have not been shown . by any one. Are they arteries or nerves ? To this it may be answered, that the bloodvessels do not follow the direction of the nerves. All this is explained by the following fact: each nervous fibre, besides its common neurilemmatic sheath, has also a proper sheath, in contact with the neurilemma by its outer surface, and with the bundle of nervous filaments by its inner surface, which is smooth and moist. This sheath may be demonstrated by cutting a nerve across, and seizing one of the tufts which project beyond the retracted neurilemma; a nervous fibre can then generally without effort be drawn out several inches, having a smooth surface, and being completely freed from its common neurilemma. Now this fibre consists not only of nervous matter, but also of a proper sheath perfectly distinct from the neurilemma. It may now be injected, and wiU then present all the characters of the central injection already mentioned ; and upon examining it with a lens it will be seen, that the nervous filaments of which it is composed are regularly distributed around the column of mercury. It follows then that in the central injection of a nerve it is neither the neu- rilemma, nor the nervous matter, nor the vessels that are injected, but the proper sheath of each nervous fibre; and that the passage of the injection from one fibre to a great number of others depends on the canals formed by the proper sheaths anastomosing with each other. I shall further remark, that in this injection the mercury evidently pene- trates into a regular canal, and not into one produced by its own weight, for a column of a few lines is sufficient for the purpose. ^ Again, the mercury runs more easily from the peripheral towards the central extremity of a nerve than in the opposite direction, and when the injection is successful, the spinal ganglia are filled with the mercury, which is then either extravasated into the cavity of the dura mater, or escapes by the veins. If it be asked, why the mercury does not pass into the anterior and posterior roots of the nerves ? I should answer, that it is not certain that the fibres of these roots have any proper sheaths ; or if so, they are very readily lacerated. As to the passage of the mercury from the nervous ganglia into the veins, it is pro- bable that the proper sheaths terminate in the ganglia, so that the mercury is extravasated into the tissue of which the ganglia consist. Injections afl'ord a good means of tracing the nervous filaments into the substance of organs. An injection thrown into the lingual branch of the fifth nerve penetrates as far as the papilise of the tongue. Structure of the Ganglia. Meckel, in his excellent monograph upon the fifth pair, advanced the opinion that the nerves divided in the ganglia into a multitude of fibres which are intended for a great number of parts. ^. .•■ , ,1, Zinn (Acad Berlin, 1753) said, that the nerves not only divided within the ganglia into a great number of fibres, and were directed by them from the centre to the circumference, but that they were also mingled and combined in the ganglia in such a manner that a great number of fine fibres united into a smaller number of fibres of greater diameter. But this doctrine, however specious it may be, not resting "Pon a^J^"?; tomical fact, was rejected by Haller. Scarpa »"derto°k a series o researches m order to render our knowledge more complete regarding this subject. Instead