STRUCTURE OF THE NERVES. 1027 C c 3 they even described its properties ; and anatomists instituted no researclies to confirm or refute these assertions. Malpighi himself, who, in reference to the study of anatomy, carried to such an extent that system of philosophical scep- ticism which has completely revolutionised all science, believed that he saw the nervous fluid escape from the cut end of a nerve, like a glutinous juice, which he compared to spirits of turpentine.* Reil and some others have injected the neurilemma. Reil describes a very ingenious method of injecting the optic nerve, which consists in opening the transparent cornea, and injecting mercury into the globe of the eye: the mer- cury passes through the foramina, which transmit the filaments of the optic nerve at the point where these become continuous with the retina. Such was the state of our knowledge when Bogros, prosector to the Fa- culty, having accidentally punctured a nerve with the tube of a mercurial in- jecting apparatus, observed that the mercury ran along the punctured nervous fibre, and also into the adjacent nervous fibres; he repeated and varied his experiments in a great number of ways, and soon published a memoir, in which he formally announced as a demonstrated fact, that in each nervous fibre there was a central canal capable of being injected; and in his enthu- siasm at his discovery, he thought that he had realised the desire of Ruysch f, and that he could henceforth trace the nerves to their very finest terminations. The work of Bogros was in general received with little favour ; and, I think, has not been estimated at its real worth. Having renewed his experiments, I have arrived at the following result. If, with a pair of blunt pincers, a ner- vous fibre be raised from the centre of the nerve to which it belongs (from the middle of the median nerve for example), and if the tube of the lymph- atic injecting apparatus be inserted accurately into its centre, the mercury wUl be seen to run by jerks, either downwards or upwards, along the centre of the nervous fibre, and to pass into a variable number of the adjacent fibres; if the injection be a successful one, the greater number of the fibres of the nerve will be injected throughout their whole length. Gentle pressure with the finger, or with the handle of the scalpel, greatly facilitates the progress of the mercury; l)ut it often happens that the parietes of the canal through which the mercury is passing yield at some point, a rupture ensues, and the fluid is extravasated. When the nervous fibre has not been punctured in the centre, the mercury is seen to run along the injected fibre, and even into some of those near it; but the mercurial column is never regular; it does not occupy the centre of the fibre, but only one side of it; and it is soon extravasated into the neurilemmatic sheath, which in a short time bursts. This second kind of injection, which may be made at will by puncturing the fibre superficially, diff'ers essentially from the former one obtained by in- troducing the pipe into the centre of the fibre. In the latter case the small column of mercury is uniform and regular, and its metallic lustre is as it were observed ; the fluid runs rapidly ; the nervous canal is less easily rup- tured ; and, when this does happen, it is preceded by a protrusion of the nervous matter; then the mercury is extravasated into the neurilemmatic sheath, and it pursues the same course as it would have taken if the nervous fibre had been punctured supei-ficially in the first instance. Where do the injections pass in these two cases ? In the second method, that IS to say, when the nerve is punctured superficially, it is the neurilemma that is injected. But in the method of central injection, is the nervous matter » But, as Haller remarks, Malpighi only saw this upon cutting through the cauda equina and never observed it in the section of any other nerves ; now, it is extremely probable tHat he saw merely the serous fluid which is most commonly found in the lower infundiWorm portion of the spinal dura mater: "QnUm vehementer sispicor eum clarum virum humorem vidisse TiBcidum, quo infundibulum dura; raembraniB spinalis frequentissimi plenum est, et quridZ m spinam bifidam auctus abit." (.HaWer, Elem. P/iysiol t iv p 197) i. <:i. qui mem t Ruysch said that he should have nothing to desire, if lie could succeed in iniectinu ih« nerves aa he had done the vessels. ="»-v.>.i,u uijecung tne