COMPARATIVE ANATOMY OF THE SPINAL CORD. 945 X 2 The olivary bundles of Tiedemann, ■which are situated to the outer side of the anterior pyramids, and like them traverse the pons, gain the sides of the tubercula quadrigemina, beneath which they form an arch, which consti- tutes the upper waU of the aqueduct of Sylvius. The olivary bodies which are wanting in birds, reptiles, and fishes, do not appear until the end of the sixth or the commencement of the seventh month of foetal life. The cerebellar bundles, or restiform bodies, are perfectly distinct from the preceding. The small mammillated bundles which bound the sides of the posterior longitudinal groove can also be distinguished in the foetus. Comparative Anatomy of the Spinal Cord. Mammalia. The spinal cord of mammalia precisely resembles that of the human subject: its length, its size, its enlargements, are exactly proportioned to the size and activity of the muscles, and to the sensibility of the organs with which it is connected by means of the nerves. Birds. The spinal cord in birds is proportionally both longer and larger than in other animals; and this has reference to the enormous muscular effort required in flying. It presents two great enlargements; one of these corresponds to the wings, and the other, which is larger, and contains a ventricle, corre- sponds to the lower extremities; this ventricle was known to Steno, who de- scribed it under the name of the rhomboidal sinus. According to Nicolai {Dissertatio de Medulla. Spinali Avium. Halle, 1811) and Tiedemann, the spinal cord of birds contains a central canal, which is lined by a thin layer of grey matter, not only La the embryo, but also in the adult. Reptiles. In all reptiles the spinal cord contains a canal, which is lined, accoi-ding to Tiedemann, by a thin layer of grey substance. In the batrachian reptiles (the toad, frog, &c.) the spinal cord occupies only the anterior or upper part of the vertebral canal. M. Desmoulins says (t. i. p. 187.) that the grey matter in these species surrounds the white substance. This opinion ap- pears to me to be erroneous. In ophidian reptiles (serpents) the spinal cord occupies the whole length of the vertebral canal; there is no grey matter *, but its place is occupied by a fluid, so that each half of the medulla contains a canaL In the saurians (crocodiles, lizards) the spinal cord is slender, of almost uni- form size throughout, and occupies the whole length of the vertebral canaL The spinal cord of the chelonian (tortoises, &c.) is the most remarkable of all, as regards its shape, and is peculiarly illustrative of the law which regulates the dimensions of this organ. There are three fusiform enlarge- ments separated from each other by two very narrow portions; the middle enlargement corresponds to the upper extremities, and the inferior one to the lower extremities ; the first constriction corresponds to the neck, the second to the thorax. Fishes. In z\\ fishes the spinal cord occupies the entire length of the ver- tebral canal. It is of uniform size in its anterior five sixths, but diminishes like a cone in the posterior sixth. There is no grey matter f, so that the cord is hollow. According to Arsaky {Dissert, de Piscium Cerehro) and Tiede- mann the medullary canal is lined by a thin layer of grey matter. The lophius piscatorius, and the male tetrodon present remarkable ana- tomical peculiarities: in the Jophius the spinal cord is diminished in size op- posite the third cervical vertebra; all at once it becomes extremely slender, and then terminates in a point opposite the eighth cervical vertebra. Twenty-six pairs of nerves arise from the enlarged portion, and only five or six pairs from the slender portion. In the tetrodon there is no spinal cord, properly so » [The spinal cord of serpents forms no exception to the general rule; grey matter has been recognised m it, as in the cord ol" other vertebrated animals. The same is tnie of fishes (sZ l^euret, Anntotnie Cumpanc du Si/slime Nervcux. &c. Paris 1839 )1 t See note, suprH. ^ '■'