THE MEMBRANA PUPILLARIS. 877 If we examine an oblique section of the iris under a lens, we find indeed that it has an areolar spongy structure ; and the extreme vascularity of this part also supports the same view. • ■ n j • w .i. Arteries of the iris. The arteries of the ins are principally derived from the two lone ciliary arteries, which bifurcate and anastomose after they have reached the ciliary ligament, and form a vascular circle, which gives off ra- diated vessels that converge from the outer border of the ins towards the pupil There are also some anastomotic arches near the pupil. Veins of the iris. The veins of the iris are much more numerous than the arteries ; they terminate in the vense comites of the long ciliary arteries, and in the vasa vorticosa. ^ . „ ^ Nerves. The nerves of the iris, or ciliarij nerves (a a, fig. 242.), are very large ; as we have stated, they gain the ciliary circle, and then pass through it in great numbers, to enter the iris, and be distributed in its substance. Most of these nerves are given off from the ophthalmic ganglion : some of them are derived directly from the nasal nerve, which is a branch of the fifth cranial nerve. The older anatomists distinguished two layers in the iris — one anterior, which they called the membrane of the iris; the other posterior, covered with pigment, which they called membrana uvea. By examining an oblique section of the iris with a lens, two layers may in fact he seen, separated by the spongy tissue of which I have spoken. The Membrana Pupillaris. Dissection. By opening the eye of the fcetus from behind, this vascular membrane may be easily seen through the vitreous body and the crystalline lens. In the foetus, the opening of the pupil is closed by a membrane, called the membrana pupillaris, which was discovered and very well described by "Wachendorf, but more perfectly so by Haller and Soemmerring, and recently by M. Jules Cloquet. It may be seen about the third month of intra-uterine life, and generally disappears towards the seventh month. "WTien persistent it may occasion congenital blindness. Wachendorf and Soemmerring have de- monstrated the vessels of this membrane, which are continuous with those of the iris. During the existence of the membrana pupillaris, the membrane of the aqueous humour forms a shut sac. From the researches of M. Jules Cloquet concerning the pupillary membrane, it appears that it consists of two thin layers, between which the bloodvessels are arranged in loops ; that the convexities of these loops are turned towards each other, but that the loops which approach each other from opposite sides do not anastomose together ; that between these loops and towards the centre of the pupil, there is a small irregular portion of the membrane which is destitute of vessels, and is, there- fore, weaker than any other'part; that the formation of the pupil is effected by the rupture of this membrane, and that this rupture is occasioned by the retraction of the vascular loops which ultimately occupy the lesser border of the iris. Uses of the iris. The iris regulates the quantity of light that is admitted into the interior of the eye. The contraction of the pupil is an active move- ment, and its dilatation is passive, facts which are opposed to the doctrine of Its muscularity, but support the idea of its being a vascular and erectile structure. It has been stated that the movements of the iris are intended to enable us to judge of the distance and size of objects, or rather to enable us to see objects at different distances : this is erroneous, for the pupil remains of the same size, under the action of a similar quantity of light, whether the object looked at be near or distant.* The effect of narcotics, and especially of bella- * [The pupil certainly dilates in loolting at distant objects, and contracts under tlie opposite