''■^'^ ANGEIOLOGY. first kind; many of them proceed directly from the parietes of the heart Thes"e cor'.^ T ' fasciculus of divergin/cords arisin^fSm the ZilT Ihese cords are so arranged, that by drawing upon them the valve is de- pressed and stretched. We find, in fact, that both in the anterb and pos- terior part of the tricuspid valve, those cords which arise from the free margin on one side converge towards those of the opposite side, some even crossina- each other in the form of the letter X. crossing The ar terial or pulmonary orifice (^ostium arteriosum, d,fin. 194 "l is olaced at the anterior part of the left side of the base of the right^^ntricle. hT^sepa- rated from the auricular orifice by a tolerably prominent muscular band Fig. 196. ^ which is concave on its lower surface, and divides the right ventricle into two portions, an auricular and a pulmonary portion or infundibulum. This orifice is circular and is provided with three very distinct valves, which are named sigmoid or semilunar if, Jig. 195.; aaa, fig. 196.).* Although thin and semi-transparent, they are very strong. They are directed vertically as the blood is passbg from the ventricle into the artery, and become horizontal when it tends to flow back from the artery into the ventricle. Of their two surfaces, the ventricular corresponds to the cavity of the ventricle ; the other, or arterial surface, includes between it and the walls of the artery, a small cul-de-sac, which has been compared to a pigeon's nest. The adherent border of each valve is convex, and directed towards the ventricle; its free margin presents in the middle a small nodule, by which it is divided into two semilunar halves. When depressed the valves completely close the vessel, the three nodules filling up the triangular interval left between the approximated free margins. These valves must therefore oppose the reflux of the blood into the ventricle ; but the resistance offered by them is easily overcome by an injection thrown into the pulmonary artery. Interior of the Left Ventricle. The left ventricle occupies the left upper and back part of the heart; it is evidently constructed upon the same fundamental type as the right ventricle, but diifers from it in many respects, as we shall now proceed to show. Difference in situation. The diflFerent positions of the two ventricles are sufficiently known from what has already been stated ; but it is important to remark, that the left ventricle projects beyond the other at the apex of the heart { fig. 197.), whilst the right is more prominent at the base in consequence of the existence of the infundibulum. Difference in shape. The right ventricle is pyramidal and becomes col- lapsed when not distended; the left is conical and convex, not only on its free surface (i), but even at the septum (a, fig. 194.), where it seems to project into the interior of the right ventricle. Difference in size. It is generally stated, in accordance with Senac, Winslow, and Haller, that the right ventricle is more capacious than the left: this state- ment is founded upon direct observation, which proves that the right ventricle gains more at the base than the left does at the apex; also upon deductions made by comparing the right auricle and the pulmonary artery with the left auricle and the aorta; and lastly, upon the results obtained by injecting the cavities of the heart. No two observers agree as to the exact nimibers which would represent the capacities of the two ventricles, as the following different « It is extremely rare to find any anomaly in the number of these valves, cither by an in- crease or a diminution of them.