ANGEIOLOGY. 832 fact, the cervical lymphatic glands sometimes become enlarged in diseases of the lungs. The lymphatics of the heart, pericardium, and thymus. The lymphatics oftlie heart are divided into superficial and deep; the superficial vessels commence by a subserous network, and for the most part run along the right border of that organ ; the deep lymphatics arise from the internal membrane of the heart, in ■which I have never been able to inject a perfect network : they all accompany the coronary vessels, and all pass out of the pericardium ; some of them unite with the lymphatics of the lung; the others enter the glands in front of the arch of the aorta and puhnonary artery, and from thence pass to the thoracic duct. The lymphatics of the pericardium and thymus enter the internal mammary, anterior mediastinal, and bronchial lymphatic glands. The Lymphatic System of the Head. The Lymphatic Glands of the Head. There are more lymphatic glands in the face than in the cranium. AU the lymphatic glands of the cranium are found upon its posterior region : some of them are situated behind the ear along the attachments of the occipito- frontalis; several are placed beneath the upper end of the stemo-mastoid; they are very small, and often escape notice in a hasty dissection : they become very distinct in diseases of the scalp. Are there any deep lymphatics of the cranium? The pituitary body, the pineal gland, and the white bodies known as the glandulae Pacchioni have been regarded as belonging to the lymphatic system. Some authors have even con- sidered the tubercles, so frequently found in the brains of infants, and which are evidently accidental formations, to be of the same nature. Certain bodies found in the carotid canal, and which are evidently enlargements of the ganglionic nerves, have also been described as lymphatic glands: but this opinion is now completely rejected. Of the lymphatic glands of the face, the largest occupy the base of the lower jaw, and are called the sub-maxillary lymphatic glands : several of them are situated upon the outer surface of the maxillary bone, along the facial vessels, in front of the masseter muscle. We find also in the face, the parotid lymphatic glands, some of which are superficial and others deep, the latter being situated in the substance of the gland : we find some also between this gland and the masseter: lastly, there are the zygomatic glands, situated imder the zygoma, and the buccinator lymphatic glands. The Lymphatic Vessels of the Head. These belong either to the cranium or to the/ace. The lymphatics of the cranium. The superficial or subcutaneous cranial lymphatics are divided into two sets; the temporal lymphatics, which run along the superficial temporal artery, and pass through the parotid lymphatic glands, from which vessels proceed to the glands in the anterior region of the neck; and the occipital lymphatics, which follow the occipital artery, and terminate in the mastoid and the occipital lymphatic glands. The deep lymphatics of the cranium, the lymphatics of the dura mater, or the meninqeal lymphatics, accompany the meningeal vessels, escape through the foramen spinale of the sphenoid bone, and enter the jugular lymphatic glands. Ruysch appears to have been the first who noticed lymphatics in the brain ; he has named them vasa pseudo-lymphatica. Mascagni could only show the presence of the superficial lymphatics of the brain by injecting coloured sise into the carotid arteries. The sise freed from the colouring material passed into the lymphatics.