THE OBTURATOR ARTERY. 735 The Middle Hemorrhoidal Artery. This is a small artery (e), which is sometimes wanting, its place being then supplied by branches from different sources, but especially from the sciatic or the internal pudic; it passes upon the sides of the anterior surface of the rectum, where it terminates by anastomosing with the superior and inferior hsemorrhoidal arteries. The Uterine Artery, The uterine artery {nn,fig. 198.) arises from the umbilical, near the poste- rior vesical, and frequently by a common trunk with it; passes transversely inwards to the corresponding lateral border of the n,terus, a little above the OS tincse ; is reflected upwards along the uterus, and terminates by expanding into several ascending branches, of which the anterior reach the front, the posterior the back, and the middle the upper border of the vise us, and inoscu- late either with their fellows of the opposite side, or with the uterine branches of the ovarian artery. The uterine arteries are remarkable for the great size which they acquire during pregnancy, and also for their tortuous and spiral course, even to their smallest branches — a disposition which no other artery presents in the same degree. These tortuosities, instead of diminishing, ap- pear to increase during pregnancy — a fact which seems opposed to the view generally adopted regarding the use of arterial flexuosities in organs liable to variations in their size. Collateral branches. At the point of its reflection, each uterine artery gives off one or more descending branches between the vagina and the bladder to supply both parts; in their course along the borders of the uterus, they furnish a series of anterior and posterior ascending branches, which are distributed in the same way as the terminal ascending branches; they all anastomose in the median line with their fellows of the opposite side. Relations. The trunks of the uterine arteries are beneath the peritoneum ; the principal branches are situated under a thin layer of the substance of the uterus, and the ultimate divisions and subdivisions enter its tissue. The Vaginal Artery. The vaginal artery arises from the umbilical, sometimes before, sometimes after the origin of the uterine, which is sometimes given off from a common trunk with it. It is as large as the uterine in young subjects, but is smaller than it after puberty. It descends directly upon the sides of the vagina, to which it gives off a numerous series of branches, supplies a considerable branch to the neck of the bladder and the urethra, gives an equally large one to the bulb of the vagina, and then passes backwards between the orifice of the vagina and the rectum, and anastomoses with its fellow of the opposite side. The Obturator Artery. The obturator artery (/, fig. 212.) is remarkable for the varieties of its origin, and for the important consequences which result fi-om those varieties in reference to the operation for femoral hernia. It generally arises from the internal iliac by the side of the umbilical, but sometimes above the gluteal; it is almost as frequently given off from the ex- ternal ihac, either directly, which is rare, or by a common trunk with the epi- gastric. Lastly, and much more rarely, it arises from the femoral artery 1 he course of the obturator artery is modified by these differences of oriein which, notwithstanding the assertion of some anatomists, are as common in the male as the female, and which may occur on one side only, or on both VOL* II, ^