THE LOBULES OF THE CEREBELLUM. 957 The inferior veraiform process is merely the lower part of the median lobe of tlie cerebellum, of which the superior vermis constitutes the upper part. The superior vermis is continuous, without any line of demarcation, with the two hemispheres of the cerebellum, so that the upper part of that organ ap- pears imdivided. The inferior vermis, which seems at first sight to be in- tended to separate the two hemispheres, nevertheless forms the means of connexion between them, as may be easily seen by di-awing them apart from each other. . . The circumference of the cerebellum is somewhat elliptical, or rather re- sembles the heart upon playing cards; behind and in the middle line it presents a notch (n), between the convex margins of which a triangular in- terval is left, into which the falx cerebelli and the internal occipital crest are received. At the bottom of this notch the surface of the cerebellom is trans- versely grooved; this part unites the superior to the inferior vermiform process, and belongs to the median lobe of the cerebellum. The rounded margins of the notch are continuous with the circumference of the cerebellum. In front, the circumference of the cerebellum appears to be formed by the pons Varolii (d,fg.276.) and middle cerebellar peduncles (m), •which are in relation with the posterior surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bones, and are therefore straight, and form a truncated angle, which projects forwards, and corresponds to the pons Varolii. All the bundles of fibres which connect the cerebellum with the cerebrum and spinal cord enter at the anterior part of its circumference: thus, besides the middle peduncles of the cerebellum, we find in this situation its superior peduncles (r, Jig. 272.), or processus ad testes, and its inferior peduncles (cut at 71), or processus ad medullam oblongatam, to which we shall presently return. T7ie Furrows, Lobules, Lamince, and LamelloR of the Cerebelhim. The whole surface of the cerebellum is traversed by curved lines or furrows, which are for the most part concentric and horizontal, but not very regular. • These furrows are not parallel, but are inflected towards each other, and in- tersect at very acute angles. They may be divided into four sets, according to their depth. The first set of fiirrows are the deepest: they reach as far as the central nucleus, and divide the cerebellum into segments or lobules {g, h, I, Jig. 275.). These segments are divided into secondary segments by the second set of furrows. The secondary segments are again subdivided into lamincB or folia, and these laminse into lamellce, by two sets of yet smaller furrows. Pourfour du Petit, Malacarne, and Chaussier have studied the segments, laminae, and lamellae of the cerebeUum with great care, and have even counted them. The differences in their results* are not so much a proof of varieties m the structure of the organ, as of the want of some uniform method of enu- meration. The segments which occupy the circumference of the organ are the largest: they represent segments of an ellipsoid, and are very broad in the middle, and narrowed at each extremity. The segments of the upper surface are concentric, and their curvature corresponds to that of the entire cerebellum. Ihe segments of the lower surface are also concentric in each half or lobe of the^cerebellum, but the curves of one side are independent of those of the The laminaj or folia of the cerebellum are applied to each other like the leaves of a book ; they are separated from each other in their whole length, * Winslow admitted 3 lobules, Collins G, Pourfour du Pptit I'i M^1nc^^np ii an,! pi,,.,..-