1054 NEUROLOGY. The other collateral branches of the median in the fore-arm arise from its posterior aspect: they are the branch for the superficial layer of muscles, which arises opposite the elbow-joint and then divides successively into several others, which enter the pronator teres, the flexor carpi radialis, the palmaris lonyus, and the^exor sublimis. The filaments for the flexor sublimis are remarkably slender and are reflected upwards below the epitrochlea: they belong to the upper part only of this muscle, which is also supplied by two or three other branches given off in succession from the median, a little below the bend of the elbow. The branch for the deep layer of muscles is a large trunk which soon divides into several branches, viz. one external, for the flexor longus pollicis, the upper ex- tremity of which it enters; two internal,'which enter the flexor profundus but only supply its kiBf* half, the other half receiving its nerves from the ulnar * ; and a middle branch, the inter-osseous nerve (e), which requires a particular description. It passes vertically downwards, in front of the inter-osseous ligament between the flexor profundus and the flexor longus pollicis, to both of which it gives several filaments ; having reached the upper borders of the pronator quadratus, it passes behind that muscle and divides into a great number of filaments, some of which penetrate the muscle from behind, whilst others descend to gain the lower part of the muscle. I have seen the inter- osseous nerve perforate the inter-osseous ligament, run a very short distance upon its posterior surface, then pass through it again, and ramify in the pro- nator muscle. The palmar cutaneous branch {i,fig. 287.) comes off from the median nerve opposite the junction of the three upper fourths with the lower fourth of the fore-arm, runs along the median nerve, and divides into two branches which perforate the fascia of the fore-arm immediately above the annular ligament. The external branch is the smaller, and crosses obliquely over the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis, and terminates in the skin upon the ball of the thumb f ; the internal branch, which is larger, descends vertically in front of the annu- lar ligament and beneath the skin, from which it is separated by a layer of adi- pose tissue, and is lost in the palm of the hand, much sooner than might be ex- pected from its size \ ; it can scarcely be traced as far as the middle of the palm. In the Hand. The median nerve, while passing behind the annular ligament of the carpus, becomes considerably wider and flattened ; it might even be said to increase gradually in size. Immediately after it has passed below the ligament, stiU flattened' out, it divides (r) into two branches, one internal, the other external, which are themselves subdivided ; the Internal into two, and the external mto four branches, so that in all there are six terminal branches. The terminal branches of the median nerve. Of these one only is muscular, and belongs to the muscles of the ball of the thumb ; the other five are in- tended for the integuments of the fingers, of which they form the palmar col- lateral nerves. , , . The branch for the muscles of the ball of the thumb is a recurrent nerve; it arises from the front of the median, passes upwards and outwards, forming a horizontal curve with the concavity turned upwards, perforates the superficial layers of the flexor brevis, immediately gives off a descending branch to that muscle, and, continuing to ascend itself, is divided abnost equally between the abductor brevis and the opponens pollicis. • All the deep br.mches may be traced as far as the periosteum of the bones of the fore-arm. rsnmp of them Lve been seen to communicate with filaments of the ulnar nerve.] ^ nThfs brSich anastomoses with the terminal cutaneous division of the musculo-sp.ral or ■■^^'Th^sTudden mode of termination is common to all nerves of sensation, which arc often Jost alLTt Imr^edUerin the skin ; the nerves of motion, on the other hand, run a very long course as filaraeuts before they terminate in the muscles.