I I 2 THE LINGUAL NERVE. W2l nus nerve derived from the cervical plexus. One of these branches joins the dental nerve, before that nerve enters the dental canal; another branch ter- minates in the temporo-maxillary articulation. The Terminal Branches of the Inferior Maxillary Nerve. The Lingual Nerve. The lingual or gustatory nerve (n, figs. 298. 300; n n', fig. 301.) passes down- ^ f,^. 300. wards and forwards: it is at first situ- ated between the external pterygoid muscle and the pharynx, but it soon passes between the two pterygoids (^fig. 300.), then between the internal ptery- goid and the ramus of the lower jaw (fig. 298.), and then runs forwards along the upper border of the submaxillary gland, between it and the buccal mucous membrane, and above the mylo-hyoid muscle ; it then passes beneath the sub- lingual gland, which it crosses, to pass to its inner side and, accompanied by the Warthonian duct, which lies to its inner side and crosses it at a very acute angle, it gains the corresponding border of the tongue, and ramifies in the substance of that organ. During its passage between the two pterygoids the lingual nerve is joined by that branch of the facial nerve which is known as the chorda tympani (x, fig. 298.), and which unites to it behind, forming a very acute angle opening upwards ; this branch of the facial, which may be regarded as one of the roots of the lingual, remains in contact with that nerve for some time, and is at last blended with it. The lingual nei-ve also receives, sometimes before, and sometimes after being joined by the chorda tympani, a very considerable anastomotic branch from the inferior dental: this branch is rarely wanting. After receiving these two branches, the lingual nerve becomes considerably increased in size, and. during its course gives off several filaments to the tonsils, the mucous membrane of the cheeks and the gums. Opposite the submaxillary gland, the lingual nerve presents a very remark- able ganglion, generally described as the submaxillary ganglion (situated behind X, fig. 300.) ; the trunk of the nerve does not enter into its formation, but it appears to be formed only by its inferior filaments. It has been gratuitously supposed that this ganglion is formed exclusively by the chorda tympani, which, according to such a view, after running in mere contact with the lingual nerve, becomes detached from it (opposite n) to enter the ganglion (x) ; we have stated that there was equally little reason to suppose that the chorda tympani was the continuation of the cranial branch of the vidian. The sub- maxillary ganglion, the size of which is very variable, gives off a great number of filaments, most of which are distributed to the submaxillary gland ; one of these filaments accompanies the Warthonian duct. Having reached the sublingual gland, the lingual nerve supplies that gland with a great number of filaments, which dip into it and form a plexus of very delicate meshes. In the tongue, the lingual nerve is situated at the lateral border of that organ, and on a plane above that of the hypoglossal nerve, with which it communicates by an anastomotic branch, forming a loop. It becomes gra- dually diminished in size by giving off a very numerous series of filaments