vi CONTENTS. iexuiei. The Veins. Definition. _ Tlie venous system.- Origin of tlic veins. _ Course.-Anastomoses and pi — Varieties. — lermmation. — Valves. — Structure. — Preparation. — Metliod of de- scription Pagey.-iS Description of the Veins. The Pulmonary Veins. Preparation—Description Reiations. — Size. — Peculiarities . . - 764 Tlie Veins of the Heart. The great coronary or cardiac vein The small cardiac veins ... The Superior, or Descending Vena Cava and its Branches. The superior vena cava. — The brachio-cephalic veins — the inferior thyroid — the internal mammary — the superior phrenic, the thymic, pericardiac, and mediastinal the vertebral The jugular veins, viz. the external — the anterior — and the internal The encephalic veins, and the sinuses of the dura mater, viz. the lateral —the superior longitudinal — the straight — the superior and inferior petrosal — the cavernous — the coronary and the an- terior and posterior occipital sinuses — the conflux of the sinuses The branches of origin of the jugular veins —the facial—the temporo-raaxillary — the posterior auricular the occipital — the lingual — the pharyngeal — the superior and middle thyroid — the veins of the diploe.— Summary of the distribution of the veins of the head The deep veins of the upper extremity — the palmar, radial, ulnar, br.ichial, and axillary—the subclavian. — The superficial veins of the upper extremity —in the hand—in the fore-arm at the elbow and in tlie arm General remarks on tnese superficial veins - . . 766 The Inferior or Ascending Vena Cava and its Branches. The inferior vena cava—the lumbar or vertebro-lumbar veins — the renal — the middle su- prarenal — the spermatic and ovarian — the inferior phrenic The portal system of veins — the branches of origin of the vena porta;—the vena porta; — the hepatic veins. —The common iliacs — the internal iliac — the hemorrhoidal veins and plexuses — the pelvic veins and plexuses in the male and in the female. — The deep veins of the lower extremity — the plantar, posterior tibial, perone.il, dorsal, anterior tibial, and popliteal — the femoral—the external iliac The superficial veins of the lower extremity — the internal saphenous — the external saphenous - - - - - . - -791 The Veins qf the Spine. General remarks. — The superficial veins of the spine. — The anterior superficial spinal veins, viz. the greater azygos —the lesser azygos — the left superior vertebro-costals — the right vertebro-costals — the vertebro-lumbar — the ilio-lumb.ir, and middle and lateral sacral — the anterior superficial spinal veins in the neck. — The posterior superficial spinal veins. — The deep spinal or intra-spinal veins — the anterior longitudinal, and the transverse veins or plexuses, and the veins of the vertebrae — the posterior and the posterior and lateral transverse veins or plexuses — the medullary veins General remarks on the veins of the spine ......... 803 The Lymphatic System. Definition, history, and general view of the lymphatic system. — Origin. — Course. — Termin- ation and structure of tlie lymphatic vessels. — The lymphatic glands.— Preparation of the lymphatic vessels and glands - - - - ■• - -811 Description of the Lymphatic System. The thoracic duct — the right thoracic duct. — The lymphatic system of the lower ex- tremity of the pelvic and lumbar regions — of the liver — of the stomach, spleen, and pancreas — of the intestines — of the thorax — of the head — of the cervical regions — of the upper extremity and upper part of the trunk . , - - - 820 neurology. The Organs of the Senses. The skin — its external characters, structure, and appendages. — The tongue considered as the organ of taste The organ of smell — the nose — the pituitary membrane. — The organ of sight — the eyebrows — the eyelids — the muscles of the orbit—the lachr3Tnal .ipparatus —the globe of the eye, its membranes and humours —the vessels and nerves of the eye. — The organ of hearing — the external ear — the middle ear or tympanum — the in- ternal ear or liibyrinth—the nerves and vessels of the ear - - - - 836 The Cekebro-spinal Axis. General observations - - - - - - ■ -908