INTERNAL STRUCTURE OF THE ISTHMUS ENCEPHALI. 951 The Internal Structure of the Isthmus of the Encephali gular lateral Duncues oi lue isiumus, ou^/cm^x the valve of Vieussens and the tubercula quadrigemina. Internal Structure of the Pons and the Peduncles of the Cerebellum. It has been stated that the lower surface of the pons presents some white transverse fibres (see left side, ^3-. 273.), which twist upon each other to form p. the middle peduncles of the cere- jT-'^^s-^i' ' bellum. On making a very su- yond the level of the peduncles of the cerebrum, it will be seen that the pons is traversed longitudinally by certain white bundles of fibres {b',figs. 273, 274.); and if, moreover, the handle of the scalpel be insinuated beneath the posterior border of the pons, and all that part be removed which projects beyond the pyra- midal bodies of the medulla oblongata, these white longitudinal bundles which traverse the pons are found to be the prolongation of the pyramids (6), and are themselves continuous with the peduncles of the cerebrum (n,fig. 282.). By thus separating the pons into very thin horizontal layers it will be found that the longitudinal (6') and transverse (m) fibres form several alternate layers, above which we arrive at the middle stratum of the isthmus. The peduncles of the cerebnmi are continuous with the longitudinal fibres of the pons, and the middle cerebellar peduncles with the transverse fibres of the same part; the grey matter of the pons extends into the substance of the latter, and gives them a striated appearance. At the boundary between the pons and the middle peduncles of the cerebellum there is on each side a very considerable longitudinal bundle, which forms the origin of the fifth nerve, and which therefore does not belong to the anterior pyramidal bodies. * The absolute continuity of the anterior pyramids with the peduncles of the arising from the tubercula quadrigemina. This opinion is very doubtful as far as concerns the human subject. » The most anterior and the most posterior transverse fibres of the pons have a very peculiar • arrangement; the anterior arc inflected (o.yfe. 282.) between the peduncles of the cerebrum, and completely occupy the interval between them ; so that each of these peduncles is embraced by a distinct ring lormed by the libres of the pons ; and, again, the most posterior fibres of the pons dip between the anterior pyramids, each of which is also embraced by a distinct ring. perficial incision into the pons, we find beneath the external layer of white matter, which is very thin behind, and a little thicker in front, a greyish yellow substance, which is traversed by the transverse fibres of the pons, so that the part (m,fig. 274.) has a striated appearance. If the handle of the scalpel be passed beneath the anterior bor- der of the pons, so as to remove all that part which projects be-