THE CONVOLUTIONS AND SULCI OF THE BRAIN. 979 z 3 There are several orders of convolutions. In fact, simple convolutions are seen to be divided, excavated, and furrowed, more or less deeply ; but there are no regular and consecutive subdivisions as in the laminseof the cerebellum. Vertical sections made in different directions will show the arrangement of the convolutions much better than the most careful observations of the ex- ternal surface of the brain. Each convolution presents to our notice two surfaces, a base or adherent border, and a free border. The surfaces of the corresponding convolutions are moulded upon each other, and separated by a duplicature of the pia mater. The base or adherent border of each convolution is continuous with the central portion of the hemisphere (see section, 277.). The free border is slightly rounded, so that between any two contiguous convolutions there is a small groove, which is very distinct in cases of puru- lent infiltrations or depositions of lymph in the sub-arachnoid cellular tissue. At the points where these convolutions meet, a triangular depression is ob- served. These spaces are small in the natural state, but become very evident in cases of atrophy of the convolutions. The free border of some convolutions is frequently marked by an oblong depression or groove, varying in depth and extent, and following the direction of the convolutions : these depressions are sometimes sharp, and radiate into three or four branches ; at other times they are superficial, or, lastly, deep and narrow. The arteries and veins which pass over the free borders of the convolutions form grooves upon them of various depths. The free borders of most of the convolutions generally reach the surface of the brain; but besides the secondary convolutions, several of which remain concealed throughout their whole length, between two adjacent convolutions, there are some principal convolutions, which descend at one of their extre- mities between two adjacent convolutions ; and there are others, again, which are depressed at one or at several points of their extent. The depth of the convolutions varies from ten to fourteen lines, but it is extremely variable in different individuals : moreover, there are perhaps not two convolutions, nor two parts of the same convolution, which correspond in thickness in the same brain: some are considerably swollen, whilst others are narrow: there is almost always an enlargement at the point where two con- volutions become continuous. Eustachius and Vieussens have erred, then, in representing aU the convolutions as perfectly similar. It would be undoubtedly curious to describe minutely all the convolutions. Vesalius, who appears to have entertained the idea of so doing, likened the appearance of the surface of the brain to those irregular forms which are traced by unskilful painters in delineating clouds. Vicq d'Azyr made an unsuccessful attempt to elucidate this subject; Gall and Spurzheim, who were interested in giving a minute description of each convolution, abandoned the task; I have myself attempted, and so has Rolando, to describe and name some of them. The description, however, to be understood, would require the as- sistance of figures; I shaU, therefore, content myself with noticing, in this place, the most important convolutions upon the internal surface, upon the inferior surface, and upon the external surface, or convexity of each hemi- sphere. Convolutions and Anfractuosities upon the Internal Surface. The convolution of the corpus callosum is one which predominates over all those of the internal surface of the hemisphere ; it is that which embraces the corpus callosum, and hence its name. It commences in front, below the re- flected extremity of that body to which it adheres, passes forwards and up- wards, turns round Its anterior extremity, then extends backwards, and having reached beneath the posterior extremity of the corpus caUosum, continues its course, and is arranged, m a manner to be presently described, upon the lower surtace of the cerebrum.