1061 THE NERVES OF THE BRACHIAL PLEXUS. General Summary of the Distribution of the Nerves of the Brachial Plexus. The preceding description shows that the brachial plexus supplies the skin, the muscles, and the articulations of the upper extremity, includmgthe shoulder. We shaU briefly recapitulate, first the muscular and then the cutaneous ^^^Thl^muscular branches. By its collateral branches, the brachial plexus sup- plies the scaleni and all the muscles which move the shoulder, excepting the trapezius, which receives its nerves from therbraehial plexus and from the spmal accessory nerve of Willis; by its terminal branches it supplies all the muscles of the arm, the fore-arm, and the hand. Each of the muscles which move the shoulder receives a special nerve: thus, besides the nervous filaments for the scaleni, there is the nerve for the sub- clavius; the nerve for the levator anguli scapute ; the nerves for the rhom-. boideus'; the nerve for the serratus magnus, which is better known as the external thoracic nerve; the nerve for the latissimus dorsi, which is generally described as a branch of the subscapular; and the nerves for the pectoralis major and minor. The muscles which move the arm upon the shoulder also receive their nerves from the brachial plexus ; sometimes there is a separate nerve for each muscle, sometimes the same nerve supplies two muscles. The nerve for the deltoid, or the circumflex nerve, also supplies the teres minor. The supra-spinatus and infra-spinatus receive their filaments from the same branch, viz. the supra- scapular nerve. The teres major receives a branch from the subscapular nerve. * Of the muscles which move the fore-arm upon the arm. Those of the anterior region, or the flexors, viz. the biceps, coraco-brachiaUs, and brachialis anticus, receive their filaments from the musculo-cutaneous nerve; the muscle of the posterior region, the triceps, is supplied entirely by the musculo-spiral nerve. The ulnar nerve gives no branch in the arm. The muscles which move the radius upon the ulna, and those which move the hand and the fingers, are thus supplied. The interosseous division of the musculo-spiral nerve supplies the muscles of the posterior region of the fore- arm, viz. in the superficial layer, the common extensor, the extensor proprius digiti minimi, and the extensor carpi ulnaris ; in the deep layer, the supinator brevis, the adductor longus, extensor brevis and extensor longus poUicis, and the extensor proprius indicis. The muscles of the external region of the fore-arm, namely, the two supi- nators, and the two radial extensors of the carpus, also receive their branches from the musculo-spiral nerve. The muscles of the anterior region of the fore-arm receive their filaments from the median nerve, excepting the flexor carpi ulnaris and the internal half of the flexor profundus, which are supplied by the ulnar nerve. The flexor profundus then, by a peculiarity which not imfrequently occurs in re- gard to compound muscles, receives its nerves from two different sources. The intrinsic muscles of the hand are supplied in the following manner : — Those of the ball of the thumb by the median nerve ; those of the ball of the little finger by the ulnar nei-ve; the two external lumbricales by the median nerve ; the two internal lumbricales by the ulnar nerve ; all the interossei, in- cluding the adductor pollicis, by the ulnar nerve. The cutaneous branches f. The skin which covers the shoulder on the outer side receives its nerves from the cervical plexus. » The teres minor and the infra-spinatus are, therefore, supplied by two dllTerent branches which would induce us to describe these two muscles separately, did we not see that compound' and sometimes even simple, muscles receive two or more distinct nerves. ' t A beautiful preparation of the cutaneous nerves of the upper extremity may be made by removing the skm, cither by turning it inside out, in the same way as an eel is skinned or bv making a longitudinal incision along the outer side of the limb. In both cases the fascia should be removed with the skm. In the lirst method, by which a very fine preparation may bo made E E 4