741 THE EPIGASTRIC ARTERY. H 4 The numerous and important relations of this vessel, and the great number of branches arising from it, have led to its division by anatomists into three portions, which are named the external iliac artery, the femoral or crural artery, and the popliteal artery. The two terminal branches are the anterior tibial, which, in the foot, is termed the dorsal artery of the foot, and the tibio-peroneal trunk, which divides into the peroneal and posterior tibial arteries, the latter of which terminates in the sole of the foot by subdividing into the internal and external plantar arteries. The External Iliac Artery. The external iliac artery (^r,Jigs. 199. 212.), the outer of the two branches into which the common iliac divides, is analogous to the subclavian artery in the upper extremity. It extends from the highest part of the sacro- iliac symphysis to the lower border of the femoral arch or Poupart's ligament, be- low which it takes the name of femoral artery. It is directed obliquely down- wards and outwards, in a line extending from the sacro-iliac symphysis to the crural ring, and is almost always straight, but sometimes tortuous. It has the following relations: in front and on the inner side it is covered by the peri- toneum, which is very loosely attached to it—an important fact, which enables the surgeon to separate that membrane from it in applying a ligature to the vessel; on the outer side, it rests against the psoas muscle, ftom which it is separated by the iliac fascia; behind, the artery of the right side is in relation with the corresponding external iliac vein, which is placed to its inner side below ; on the left side the vein is below, and on the inner side of the artery ; lastly the genito-crural nerve, just as it is about to enter the inguinal canal, crosses in front of this artery, and so also do the spermatic vessels ; the cir- cumflex iliac vein crosses it at right angles behind the femoral arch, in order to terminate in the external iliac vein ; besides this, it is covered immediately behind the arch by several lymphatic glands; higher up, the ureter crosses obliquely in front of it, and the artery of the right side is covered by the termination of the ileum, and that of the left side by the sigmoid flexure of the colon. Collateral branches. The external iliac artery furnishes no branches, ex- cepting at its lower part, near the femoral arch, where it gives off the epigastric and circumflex iliac arteries. The Epigastric Artery. The epigastric artery is, practically speaking, one of the most important to be well understood, on account of its relations with the crural ring and in- guinal canal, that is to say, with the parts through which the viscera generally descend in herniie. This artery (y,_/i^s. 199. 212.) arises from the inner side of the external iliac, two or three lines above the femoral arch. Its origin, however, is subject to some varieties : sometimes it takes place half an inch, one or even two inches, above the crural arch ; an important fact in reference to the application of a ligature to the external iliac. Hesselbach and several others, state that they have seen the epigastric arise from the obturator artery; but their descriptions appear to me to prove nothing more than that the epigastric and obturator arteries may arise by a common trunk. It is worthy of remark, that the ob- turator is often observed to arise from the epigastric, whilst there is, perhaps, no example of the epigastric being derived from the obturator. The ob- turator so frequently arises by a common trunk with the epigastric*, that many anatomists have thought that the obturator is derived from the epigastric more inU™atd,"co„t:SaU ""^^ •^"'^'''^''''^