THE ORBITAL NERVE. 1113 Having reached the sclerotic, the ciliary nerves perforate that coat more or less obliquely, around the entrance of the optic nerve, excepting two or three which enter the globe of the eye near the attachment of the muscle; after having perforated the sclerotic, they become flattened or ribbon-shaped, and run forwards (a, Jig. 242.) parallel to each other, between the sclerotic and the choroid coats, slightly adhering to the former of these membranes, on which grooves exist for their reception; on approaching the ciliary circle or liga- ment (6), they bifurcate, and divide into filaments which anastomose with the neighbouring filaments, and appear to be lost in the ciliary circle, which has been, and not without some reason, considered by modem anatomists as a nervous ganglion, ganglion annulare (annulus gangliformis sen ganglion annulare, Soetnmerring'). I have seen some of these ciliary nerves pass through the ciliary circle and enter the iris; they are not distinctly seen to enter the ciliary processes.* The Superior Maxillary Division of the Fifth Nerve. Dissection. Saw through the zygomatic arch, turn down the masseteric muscle, and remove the roof of the orbit; first dissect the lachrymal, malar, and temporal twigs of the orbital branch of the nerve; then clean out the orbital cavity, remove the upper wall of the zygomatic fossa to reach the spheno-max- illary fossa by means of two cuts joined at an acute angle in the foramen ro- tundum. Detach the origins of the pterygoid muscles; lastly, trace the nerve into the infra-orbital canal and on the face. The superior maxillary nerve (J),figs. 298. 300, 301.), the second or middle division of the fifth nei"ve, both in position and size, runs forwards to enter, after a very short course, the foramen rotundum, by which it is conducted into the spheno-maxillary fossa ; from thence it passes into and traverses the whole length of the infra-orbital canal, where it is named the infra-orbital nerve (f); having reached the fore part of that canal, it bends downwards, and ramifies in the cheek. It is plexiform at its origin and in the foramen rotundum, but is fasciculated throughout the rest of its course. Its collateral branches, taken in the order of their origin, are the orbital nerve; certain nerves which are given off from the enlargement called Meckel's gan- glion, namely, the palatine, spheno-palatine, and vidian or pterygoid nerves ; the posterior dental nerves, and the anterior dental nerve; lastly, several small filaments come off either from the ganglion of Meckel, or from the su- perior maxillary nerve itself, and, surrounding the internal maxillary artery, assist in the formation of its plexus. TTie Orbital Nerve. This branch (<, Jig. 300.) comes off immediately in front of the foramen ro- tundum, from the upper side of the superior maxillary nerve, passes through the spheno-maxillary fissure, along which it proceeds to enter the orbit; it then runs along the floor of the orbit, and divides into two branches : the one as- cending, the lachrrjmal branch of the orbital nerve, which enters the lower sur- face of the lachrymal gland, anastomoses with the lachrymal branch (s) of the ophthabnic nerve (a), and sends off some branches to the upper eyelid, near its external angle ; the other branch is the temporo-malar, which passes hori- zontally forwards, enters a small canal in the malar bone, and subdivides into a malar Jilament, which perforates the bone, and is distributed to the skin upon * Tiedemann, from the results of observations in comparative anatomy, believes that the arteries which ramify in the retina are accompanied by very delicate nervous filaments, derived from the ophthalmic ganglion and the ciliary nerves : he has seen a nervous filament penetrate the optic nerve with the artena centralis retina;; and he states that the ciliary arteries are ac- companied by very delicate nervous filaments, whicli he has traced into the retina as far as thp tone of Zinn. Tiedemann also says that he has seen, only once it is true, a rather larce npr vous filament proceed from Meckel's ganglion and join the thick and short branch which U given off from the third pair to assist in the formation of the ophthalmic ganglion