NEUROLOGY. 1018 Each nerve has an apparent and a real central extremity or origin. The apparent origin is the exact point at which the nerve is given off from the surface of the cerebro-spinal axis; but as several nerves can be traced into the substance of the cerebro-spinal axis to a variable depth, it is probable that all of them have a much deeper real origin. The older anatomists proceeded on this supposition, when they described aU the nerves as originating from the cerebrum, and more particularly from the corpus callosum, or rather from the optic thalami and corpora striata. We are still ignorant of any central point or sensorium commune, forming the point of termination or of origin to all the nerves of the body. In respect of their origin, we might regard all the nerves as proceeding from the spinal cord: the nerves of the face, and those of the organs of respir- ation and deglutition, arise from the medulla oblongata and its cranial pro- longations ; the nerves of the upper extremity proceed from the cervico-dorsal enlargement of the cord; and the nerves of the lower extremity from the lumbar enlargement; the nerves of the trunk arise from the spinal cord be- tween its three enlargements. The optic and olfactory nerves alone appear to form exceptions to this rule. All the spinal nerves present the greatest uniformity in reference to their origin, course, and termination. The arrangement of the cranial nerves, which appears at first sight to be uninfluenced by the laws which regulate the distribution of the spinal nerves, may yet be referred to those laws to a cer- tain extent, notwithstanding its apparent irregularity and complexity. The general remarks which follow apply more particularly to the spinal nerves. The spinal nerves arise by two sets of roots, the anterior (a fig. 267.) and the posterior (6). Gall advanced the notion, that the posterior roots of the spinal nerves preside over extension, and the anterior roots over flexion of the trunk and limbs, and he explained the predominance of extension over flexion by the greater size of the former roots.* Although the fact of this predominance appears to me in- disputable, GaU's explanation is nevertheless rendered void, for it supposes a separation of the fibres of the anterior and posterior roots in reference to their distribution, and no such a separation exists. Sir Charles Bell, having proved by experiments that the facial nerve and the fifth cerebral nerve had different properties, the former being devoted to motion and the latter to sensation, was led to examine whether there did not exist something analogous in the other parts of the body ; and the double roots of the spinal nerves must have naturally suggested themselves to his mind. Might not the object of this double origin be to concentrate a double property in each pair of nerves ? Experiments were instituted, and they confii'med the preconceived ideas of this ingenious physiologist. They were soon followed by the perfectly confirmatory experiments made by Magendie, who, by also adducing facts in pathological anatomy, threw so much light upon this subject, that most modern physiologists have admitted that the posterior roots belong to sensation and the anterior to motion. Now, notwithstanding the imposing authorities which I have quoted, I must say that I am by no means convinced of the reality of this distinction, and that, in repeating both Bell's and Magendie's experiments, the section of the an- terior and that of the posterior roots appeared to me to produce precisely the same effects.f I have also endeavoured to determine the question anatomically. * In this matter Gall has caught sight of a truth which I believe I have established upon in- contestable evidence, in describing the apparatus of locomotion; namely, that in all parts ol the body, excepting in the muscles of the fingers, tlie extensors are more powerful than tne "T'cThe accuracy of these experiments has now been amply confirmed ; and there is "O doubt that the anterior are the motor and tlie posterior the sensory roots: no dilTerence ol siruciure has been detected between them.]