ANGEIOLOGY. foramina Thehesii; they are constantly found below the orifice of the vena cava superior but most of them only lead into small groups of areola;, and in- jections do not demonstrate the existence of any corresponding vessels. The only true vascular orifices are those for the anterior coronary veins. Interior of the Left Auricle. The cavity of the left auricle (fiy. 197.) differs from that of the right in the following circumstances: —in being less capacious than the right auricle, the proportion between them being four to five; in its form, which is irre- gularly cuboid; in the number of its orifices, of which there are five after birth, and six in the foetus; in the character of those orifices : thus the left au- riculo-ventricular orifice (see ^jr. 195.) is smaller than the right; its long diameter, which is transverse, is from thirteen to fourteen lines, its short diameter is from nine to ten lines ; the four other openings belong to the pul- monary veins, two (c) on the right, and two (c c) on the left side, and all are without valves*; in the structure of its auricula, which is perfectly distinct from the rest of the auricle, and contains a central conical cavity, leading into the auricle by a well defined circular opening ; in the left auricle, nothing is seen on the septum corresponding to the fossa ovalis. t When the two auricles communicate by an oblique passage, we find a very thin fibrous band, beneath which the scalpel may be introduced into the right auricle. Structure of the Heart. The heart is essentially a muscular organ, and has a framework consisting of certain fibrous rings or zones ; it is covered by a layer of serous membrane; the left cavities are lined by a membrane continuous with the internal coat of the arteries, and the right cavities by one continuous with the lining mem- brane of the veins.f Some nerves, proper vessels, and cellular tissue, also enter into its structure. The Framework of the Heart This term may be applied to four fibrous zones (the tendinous circles of Lower), which may be regarded as afFordiug both origin and insertion to all the muscular fibres of the heart. These zones are situated at the four orifices of the ventricles, viz. the two auriculo-ventricular and the two arterial orifices. Dissection. Remove with care the adipose tissue, and the vessels which occupy the furrows of the heart. Examine the fibrous zones from the in- ternal surface of the heart. In order to study the relations of the orifices with each other, remove the auricles, the aorta, and the pulmonary artery, a little above those orifices. The auriculo-ventricular zones. Each auriculo-ventricular zone is a tolerably regular fibrous circle, which surrounds the opening between the auricle and ventricle, and determines its form and dimensions. These fibrous circles give off expansions of a similar nature, which enter into the formation of the tri- cuspid and mitral valves, and thus add to their strength. The chordaB ten- dinese of the heart also terminate in these zones, either directly or through the medium of the valves. The left auriculo-ventricular zone is stronger than the right. Tlie arterial zones. These are two circular rings, the diameter of each of * It is not uncommon to meet with five openings, three on the ri^ht and two on the left side; in other cases, the two left pulmonary veins open by a common orifice. t [The situation of the foetal opening (a, fig. 197.) is very commonly indicated by a recess of variable deptli opening between the left surface of the septum and the (still free) crescentic border of the valve of the foramen ovale ] X [The muscular fibres of the heart, though involuntary, very closely resemble in structure those of the voluntary muscles (see note, p. 249.), but tlie transverse stria; upon them are less distinct. The lining nicmbr,mes of the two sides of the heart are covered by epithelium, and form what is termed the mducaiilimn.]