ANGEIOLOGY. 666 the vertebral column, which affords it both support and protection. In those animals in which the aorta is prolonged beyond the trunk, the vertebral column accompanies the vessel, and forms a bony canal or sheath for it, distinct from the canal for the spinal cord. _ Direction. Immediately after its origin the aorta advances towards the right side (a, fig. 198.), and almost directly afterwards proceeds upwards describ- ing a slight curve, the convexity of which is turned forwards and to the right, and the concavity backwards, and to the left. After leaving the pericardium it changes its direction, becomes sud- denly curved, and passes almost horizontally from the right to the left, and from before backwards, to reach the left side of the vertebral column, on a level with the third dorsal vertebra, at which point (6) it makes a third curve, and becomes vertical and descending. Having reached the diaphragm (at c) it in- clines a little to the right side, in order to gain the median line, and to pass through the ring, or rather the canal, formed for it by the pillars of the diaphragm. From this point to its termination it rests upon the middle of the anterior surface of the vertebral column. Varieties in its direction. It is not a very rare occurrence to find the aorta curving over to the right instead of the left side — a dispo- sition which may either be accom- panied with a complete transposition of the thoracic and abdominal vis- cera, or may be independent of it. Size. The several portions of the aorta have not a uniform caliber *; but its gradual decrease, in this re- spect, bears no dii'cct proportion to the number and size of the branches given off from it. At its origin it always presents three ampullae, which correspond to the sig- moid valves; they are called the sinuses of the aorta, or sinuses of Valsalva. They exist originally, and must therefore be distinguished from a dilatation found on the convex side of the arch of the aorta in old subjects, and called the great sinus of the aorta. This dilatation results entirely from the impulse of the current of the blood. . The caliber of the aorta, moreover, differs exceedingly m different subjects, even when there is no appreciable organic lesion f : it should be remarked, how- ever, that the thickness of its coats is not at all in proportion with its caliber. The aorta is generally divided into three portions, viz. the arch of the aorta, * Thus the caliber of the commencement of the aorta, compared with that of its termination, is Kenerallv as five to three; hence the diminution is not by any means proportionate to the number of brlncl^s arising from it; for the united calibers of its collateral branches would much exceed that of the main vessels. . ,-„„„r„,-onr,, nnnnsitn t Thus I have seen a case in which the aorta was 4 uiches 8 Imes in circumference opposite the arch, and 2 inches 6 lines at its lower end: the latter is the usual size of the vessel.