NEUROLOGY. 86fi However, even without much practice, it is possible to overcome them, so far as to squint by endeavouring to look at the nose. It is not uninteresting to remark that the sixth cranial nerve, or the ab- ducens oculi, is destined exclusively for the external rectus muscle ; and that the third cranial nerve, or motor oculi, supplies the three other recti, the levator palpebrae superioris, and the obliquus minor. No other muscles in the body receive such large nerves in proportion to their size as those of the eye. TTie Oblique Muscles of the Eye. These are two in number, the superior or great oblique, and the inferior or lesser oblique. The Obliquus Superior. The superior or great oblique muscle of the eye {ffig. 238.) is a long, fili- form muscle, which is reflected over a pulley or troch- lea, and hence has been termed the trochlearis muscle : it arises from the fibrous sheath of the optic nerve, between the superior and internal recti, in the same manner and upon the same plane as those muscles; from this point it passes forwards along the angle formed by the junction of the roof with the inner wall of the orbit, and forms a rounded muscular fasciculus, which ends in a rounded tendon near the cartilaginous pulley intended for its reception: the tendon passes through this pulley, is reflected upon itself at an acute angle, so as to be directed downwards, outwards, and somewhat backwards; gets beneath the superior rectus, where it spreads out, and is then inserted into the sclerotic coat on a level with the longest transverse diameter of the eyeball, and consequently further back than the insertion of the recti. The superior oblique is the longest muscle of the eye. The trochlea, or pulley of the superior oblique, is a small cartilage, which fonns five sixths of a short cylinder or ring; the edges of this imperfect cylinder are attached to the slight bony ridges which bound a depression upon the superior wall of the orbit. Its attachment is effected by means of loose ligamentous fibres, so that the pulley itself has a certain degree of mobility. The gliding of the parts is facilitated by a synovial membrane, which is reflected from the tendon upon the pulley, and is prolonged in front of and behind the latter. Beyond the pulley, a whitish filamentous tissue takes the place of the synovial membrane. The relations of the superior oblique are similar to those of the superior rectus. Action. Like all reflected muscles, the superior oblique must act from the point of its reflection. It follows, therefore, that this muscle rotates the eye upon itself from without inwards, that is, around its antero-posterior axis. From the oblique direction of its tendon from before backwards, after it is reflected, it can draw the eye forwards, and tends to bring it out beyond the orbit. This muscle is believed to assist in the expression of the tender passions (musculus patlieticus). The fourth cranial nerve, also called the trochlear or pathetic nerve, is destined exclusively f(5r this muscle. The Obliquus Inferior. The inferior or lesser oblique (g,fig. 237, 238.) is the shortest muscle of the eye, and the only one which does not arise from the bottom of the orbit: it ardes from the inner and anterior part of the floor of that cavity, and, there-