LUMBAR PORTION OF THE SYMPATHETIC SYSTEM. 1165 munication between the ganglia; the external branches, and the internal branches: besides these there are some small and very delicate filaments, which enter the bodies of the vertebrse. The Communicating Branches between the Ganglia, These communicating branches consist of one or more white cords extending between every two ganglia; they scarcely ever have the grey appearance and ganglionic structure usually found in similar branches of communication : the communicating filament between the fourth and fifth lumbar ganghon is often wanting. The External Branches. These are the branches (at d) which communicate with the lumbar nerves. I conceive that they are furnished by the lumbar spinal nerves to the lumbar ganglia of the sympathetic. There are generally two but sometimes three for each ganglion; they arise from the anterior branches of the several lumbar nerves, as they emerge from the intervertebral foramina* ; they accompany the lumbar arteries, along the grooves upon the bodies of the lumbar vertebrae, and terminate in the corresponding ganglia; they are usually directed obliquely downwards. In general, each ganglion receives branches not only from the corresponding lumbar nerve, but also from the nerve next above it. Thus, two branches end in the second lumbar ganglion ; one from the first and another from the second lumbar nerve ; the third ganglion receives filaments from the second and third lumbar nerves; when one ganglion is wanting, its place is supplied by the next, which receives its own proper branches, and also those belonging to the absent ganglion. One ganglion not unfrequently communicates with three lumbar nerves. When several ganglia are united into one, it is easy to conceive that this single ganglion must receive all the filaments corresponding to those ganglia. It is also easy to understand that these filaments must be directed more or less obliquely either upwards or downwards, and that they will correspond in length to the distance between the lumbar nerves and the single ganglion; the superior filaments being directed downwards, and the inferior filaments up- wards. A very remarkable condition of the branches of communication between the lumbar nerves and the sympathetic ganglia consists in the existence of certain ganglia or swellings upon them; and the almost indefinite anomalies observed in this particular are no less remarkable. I have found as many as three ganglionic nodules upon the same communicating branch; sometimes when the two or three communicating branches reach the side of a vertebra they unite in a ganglion from which two or three other branches are given off to the proper sympathetic ganglion, f Moreover, these ganglia, like all the irregular ganglia, rarely present that peculiar character which is common to the regular ganglia, namely, that of forming a centre in which a certain number of filaments end, and from which others are given off. The Internal or Aortic and Splanchnic Branches. The internal branches from the lumbar ganglia are the aortic and the lum- bar splanchnic branches, and form a continuous and uninterrupted series with the aortic and splanchnic branches from the thoracic ganglia; so that the inter- nal branches from the first Q) and sometimes from the second lumbar ganglion join the branches from the eleventh and twelfth thoracic ganglia, to form a * These communicating branches frequently arise in the substance of the psoas muscle from twigs derived from the lumbar plexus. inuscie irom mLIc.'" P'"'" of the sympathetic published by M.