THE DORSAL ARTERY OF THE FOOT. 753 fascia of the foot, and also anteriorly by the inner portion of the extensor brevis digitorum. It runs along the outer side of the tendon of the extensor Droorius poUicis, which projects so as to raise the integuments from the vessel; It mav be exposed in its entire length by cutting along the outer border of that tendon. It is not uninteresting to remark, that, under the dorsal Ugament of the tarsus, this artery is situated in the same sheath as the tendon of the extensor proprius pollicis. Its collateral branches are internal and external. The internal branches are numerous, but are not named: they ramify upon the inner side of the tarsus, and anastomose upon the inner border of the foot, either ■with each other, with the internal maOeolar arteries, or with the internal plantar artery. One of them may be described under the name of the internal tarsal artery, a branch which has a remarkable course : it passes obliquely forwards and inwards as far as the posterior extremity of the first metatarsal bone, and is sometimes continued along the inner side of that bone, to form the internal collateral artery of the great toe ; at other times it is reflected under the first metatarsal bone, and anastomoses directly with the intei-nal plantar artery, after having given off a great number of branches to the inner side of the me- tatarso-phalangal articulation of the great toe. Among the external branches there are two which require particular descrip- tion, viz. the dorsal artery of the tarsus, or the external tarsal, and the dorsal artery of the metatarsus, or the metatarsal artery. The external tarsal artery (g) varies in its size, which almost always bears an inverse proportion to that of the external malleolar and metatarsal arteries. I have seen it as large as the dorsal artery of the foot, by the bifiu'cation of which vessel it appeared to be formed. It passes transversely outwards under the extensor brevis digitorum, anas- tomoses freely with the external malleolar artery, and gives off the following branches: some which ramify upon the outer side of the os calcis, and anas- tomose with the peroneal; a branch which runs upon the cuboid bone, some- times being so large as to be regarded the continuation of the artery, and then passes under the sole of the foot to anastomose with the external plantar; and, lastly, some branches in front, which anastomose with the metatarsal artery, the place of which vessel it sometimes partially supplies, by giving oS the dorsal interosseous arteries. In one case, where the external tarsal artery was very large, it passed transversely outwards as far as the outer surface of the cuboid bone, was reflected backwards on the outer surface of the calcaneum, and there anastomosed very freely with the external malleolar and the pero- neal arteries. In another case, the external tarsal artery divided into two branches, one of which ran transversely outwards and reached below the sole of the foot, whilst the other formed the dorsal interosseous artery of the fourth interosseous space. The metatarsal artery (/t) generally arises from the front of the dorsal ar- tery of the foot, opposite the posterior extremity of the first interosseous space, sometimes by a common trunk with the external tarsal just described. Ac- cording to the most regular distribution, it passes transversely outwards, op- posite the posterior extremities of the several metatarsal bones, and constitutes the dorsal arch of the metatarsus (i). Three branches given ofl' from the convexity of this arch, which is directed forwards, are named the dorsal interosseous arteries (II). They run along the dorsal surface of the second, third, and fourth interosseous spaces, and having arrived opposite the metatarso-phalangal articulations, divide into two col- lateral branches for the corresponding toes. During its course along its own interosseous space, each dorsal interosseous artery receives two perforating branches, a posterior perforating artery, opposite the posterior extremity of the interosseous space, and an anterior perforating, opposite the anterior ex- tremity of the same space. This explains the otherwise singular fact, that the dorsal interosseous arteries are increased in size opposite the posterior 1 2