THE COCHLEA. 903 The following parts of the cochlea are separately described — the tube of the cochlea or lamina gyrorum, the lamina spiralis, the axis or columella, the two scalce, uni. i^ie aqueduct. . The tube of the cochlea. The tube of the cochlea {canalts spiralis cochlecB, or lamina gyrorum) is the compact lamina (I, figs. 258. 262.) which forms the ex- ternal walls of the cochlea. If we imagine a hollow osseous cone, coiled spi- rally, sicut circa fulcrum convolvulus (Haller), or like a winding staircase ; and further that the lowest turn of the spire embraces the turn above it, and that the walls of the different turns are blended with each other, we shall have a correct idea of the tube of the cochlea : as before stated, the spire thus formed describes two turns and a half. The spiral lamina of the cochlea. The spiral canal, or tube of the cochlea, is subdivided lengthwise into two secondary cavities (c e, c e, figs. 263, 264.) called scales (scala, a staircase) by a septum (a), which is named the spiral lamina of the cochlea {lamina spiralis cochlea:}. Commencing at the base of the cochlea (<, fig. 259.; also fig. 263.), and at the fenestra rotunda, where it can be very easily seen, the spiral lamina winds edgewise, around the axis or columella (6 b, fig. 262.), and is continued without any interruption to the summit or cupola (/) of the cochlea, the several turns of which it exactly follows. Its internal border is applied against the axis of the cochlea, and adheres intimately to it, excepting above, where it is free for a short distance, and leaves a communication (n, fig. 263.) between the two scalae. Margo liber laminae spiralis quo fit ut utriusque scala sit communicatio (^Soem- vierring). Its external border adheres to the inner surface of the lamina gyro- rum, or tube of the cochlea. In consequence of the conical form of this tube, the lamina spiralis would, if unrolled, represent an isosceles triangle, the base of which had corresponded to the fenestra rotunda, and the apex to the summit of the cochlea. The spiral lamina consists of two portions—an internal osseous and an external membranous portion.* The osseous portion (lamina spiralis ossea; d,figs. 259. 261, 262. 264.) pre- dominates in the first turn, diminishes gradually in the second, and ceases at the commencement of the third, where it tenninates in a kind of hook ov beak (hamulus vel rostrum ; e, fig. 262."). This bony portion is thick, and consists of two la- mellae, between which are found a great num- ber of very delicate canals, through which the nerves of the cochlea pass. These two lamellae form two distinct furrows upon the columella. The membranous portion (lavdna spiralis mem- branacea; a a, figs. 263 to 265.), completes the septum, forming its outer part. It is narrow in the first turn of the cochlea, becomes broader in the second, and constitutes the entire septum in the third. The bony and membranous portions of the spiral lamina, therefore, represent two isosceles triangles, so arranged that the hase of the one JP corresponds to the apex of the other, and vice Wf versa. Moreover, as Comparetti remarks, three zones can be distinguished in the membranous portion . . , . of the spiral lamina, the consistence of which dimmishes progressively from the margin of the osseous lamina towards the internal surface of the tube of the cochlea. Cochlea (dry). Magnified four diameters. Cochlea (recent). [In the dried cochlea {Jig- 262.) the two scalie conimimicatc along their whole course.]