980 NEUROLOGY. It is narrow at its anterior extremity, which Rolando regards as the principal root of the olfactory nerve; it increases in size as it proceeds, and opposite the middle of the corpus callosum it is elevated like a crest, becomes much broader, and is marked by several furrows, of which some are superficial and others deep. The circumference of this broad crest is divided into several branches, which become continuous either with the superior convolutions of the convex surface, or with the posterior and superior convolutions of the in- ternal surface of the hemisphere. Vicq d'Azyr first pointed out this crest of the convolution of the corpus callosum, and it was named by Rolando, pro- cesso enteroido crisiato. The internal convolution of the anterior lobe is eccentric in reference to the one just described, upon which it is moulded, a deep anfractuosity intervening between them. It is very large at its origin in front of the fissure of Sylvius ; it forms the internal part of the anterior lobe of the cerebrum, and having arrived in front of the crest of the convolution of the corpus callosimi, it passes upwards, and becomes continuous with the convolutions of the convex surface of the hemisphere. This convolution is divided throughout its entire extent by a secondary anfractuosity, which is at first straight, and then sinuous. Convolutions and Anfractuosities of the Digital Cavity. A very deep longitudinal furrow, which corresponds to the digital cavity of the lateral ventricle, and like it constantly exists, extends from the convolution of the corpus callosum, near the posterior extremity of that body, directly backwards along the posterior lobe of the brain, which it divides into a su- perior and inferior portion. This anfractuosity of the digital cavity forms a division between the internal and inferior surfaces of the hemisphere. The convolutions of the digital cavity are the two longitudinal and tortuous convolutions which bound this anfractuosity ; the upper convolution belongs to the internal surface of the hemisphere, whilst the lower one forms part of the inferior surface. Convolutions and Anfractuosities upon the Inferior Surface. The great anfractuosity, called the fissure of Sylvius, divides the convolutions of the inferior surface into those of the anterior and those of the middle and posterior lobe. The convolutions of the anterior lobe constantly found are, the two small, straight, longitudinal convolutions which bound the groove of the olfactory nerve (I, Jig. 276.), and the flexuous convolution, which extends obliquely forwards and outwards, along the border of the fissure of Sylvius, and is con- tinuous behind with the external straight convolution of the olfactory nerve. The small convolutions and intervening anfractuosities are very irregular, and differ in different individuals, and even on the two sides in the same in- dividual : into the depressions formed between these convolutions are received the prominent ridges seen upon the orbital plate of the frontal bone. The convolutions of the (middle and) posterior lobe. The convolution which runs along the great transverse fissure is the continuation of the convo- lution of the corpus callosum, and terminates in front by an unciform en- largement, which corresponds to the dilated extremity of the comu Ammoms; it forms the outer boundary of the great transverse fissure. The convolution of the corpus callosum and its continuation, viz. that of the transverse fissure, represent an ellipse, which is broken only at the fissure of Sylvius. On the outer side of this convolution is a longitudinal anfractuosity, wtiicn corresponds to the lower wall of the inferior comu of the lateral ventricle. This anfractuosity is bounded by certain longitudinal convolutions, aU ot which proceed from the convolution of the transverse fissure, and are remaiK- able for their size and windings.