1124 NEUKOLOGY. the origin of the great sympathetic. As it crosses the internal carotid in the cavernous sinus, it communicates by one or two filaments with the superior cervical ganglion. It also communicates at the same point with the ophthalmic division of the fifth nerve. Lastly, it enters the orbit through the widest part of the sphenoidal fissure, passes through the fibrous ring which is common to it and to the inferior division of the common motor nerve, crosses at an acute angle beneath the ophthalmic nerve, and gains the inner surface of the external rectus, and pene- trates that muscle after having expanded into a pencil of very delicate filaments. We shall again advert to the communication between this nerve and the superior cervical ganglion. The Seventh Pair of Nerves. The Portio Dura, or the Facial Nerve. "We have already traced the facial nerve, or the portio dura of the seventh, from its origin to the internal auditory meatus, which it enters together with the auditory nerve {T,fig. 296.), which nerve lies below and behind the facial, and forms a groove for its reception. Having reached the bottom of the internal auditory meatus, this nerve follows the long course of the facial canal *, or aqueduct of Fallopius, a winding passage which is formed in the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and which opens by one end into the internal auditory meatus, and by the other upon the lower surface of the pars petrosa at the stylo-mastoid foramen. The facial nerve traverses this canal, which is exclusively appropriated to it; it is at first directed outwards (re.^jf. 296.), and after proceeding for about a line bends suddenly, and runs backwards, in the substance of the internal wall of the cavity of the tympanum, above the fenestra ovalis. Having reached the back of the tympanum, it forms another bend, and passes ver- tically downwards (o, figs. 298. 300.) to the stylo-mastoid foramen. It follows, therefore, that the facial nerve describes two curves, like the aqueduct of Fallopius, and is horizontal in its first two portions and vertical in the third. On emerging from the stylo-mastoid foramen, the facial nerve runs for- wards in the substance of the parotid gland, and after a course of about five or six lines divides into two terminal branches, the temporo-facial (g,fig. 285.) and the cervico-facial (/), which expand into a great number of diverging filaments, and cover the temples, the whole of the face, and the upper part of the neck, with their radiations and anastomoses. The facial nerve gives off and receives certain collateral branches before and others after its exit from the stylo-mastoid foramen. The Collateral Branches of the Facial Nerve before its Exit from the Stylo- Mastoid Foramen. In the internal auditory meatus, the facial nerve receives some twigs ^rom the auditory, a remarkable anastomosis which deserves the attention of phy- siologists. „ , , Opposite to the hiatus Fallopii, i. e. at the first bend formed by the Fallopian aqueduct, the facial nerve is joined by the cranial branch of the vidian or the great superficial petrosal nerve {v, figs. 296. 300.). Accordmg to MM Rioes, Hippolyte Cloquet, and Hirzel, this branch is applied to the facial nerve but does not anastomose with it, and is detached from it lower down to constitute the chorda tympani nerve; and as the cranial branch of the » Wwhat niii-nosp is this lone course witliin the petrous portion of the temporal bone? Thole physfolog Fs who beUeve the facial nerve to be ^f a mixed nature, that is, both sensory .4d motorhavf laid Kreat stress upon this point, which they conceive to be favourable to their v?ewT; but there is noUhe slightest shadow'^of a proof that the facial nerve possesses these two properties.