810 ANGEIOLOGY. transverse occipital sinuses and canals, and the coronary sinus, which exactly correspond to the transverse plexuses, extending from one anterior intra- spinal plexus to the other. We sometimes find two or three transverse venous plexuses in the basilar groove of the occipital hone. Lastly, may we not compare the veins on the outer surfaces of the spine to the occipital, frontal, and temporal veins ; and do not the veins passing through the posterior lacerated foramen and the sphenoidal fissure, which we have re- garded as representing the intervertebral foramina (see Osteology), establish a communication between the veins on the inside and those on the outside of the cranium, just as the veins which escape through the intervertebral fora- mina connect together the superficial and the intraspinal veins. The anterior and posterior deep spinal veins communicate with the super- ficial veins of the spine at the intervertebral foramina so freely, that the circulation would not be interfered with even if a considerable amount of ob- struction existed. I have already stated (see Vertebra), that the diameter of the intervertebral foramina is in relation, not with the size of the nervous ganglia, but rather with that of the veins, which establish a communication between the superficial and intraspinal venous systems. The Proper Veins of the Spinal Cord, or the Medullary Veins. If we examine the pia mater of the spinal cord, even without having in- jected it, in the body of a person who has died suddenly, as in that of a new- born infant after death from asphyxia or apoplexy, the surface of the pia mater will be found covered by very tortuous veins, which emerge from the posterior median furrow of the spinal cord. This venous network, which is spread over the whole surface of the cord, gives off opposite the roots of each nerve a small vein, which runs directly between those roots, enters the cor- responding intervertebral foramen, is enclosed with the nerve in the sheath formed by the dura mater, and having emerged from that sheath, opens into the large vein situated in the intervertebral foramen. There is, therefore, this difference between the proper veins and arteries of the spinal cord, that the number of veins is equal to that of the nerves; whUst the arteries are less numerous, and enter the fibrous sheaths of the nerves only at intervals, and in proportion as the preceding arteries are ex- hausted. Moreover, the anterior and posterior spinal veins, like their corre- sponding arteries, may be regarded as belonging only to the upper part of the cord, and not as being intended to traverse its whole length. General Remarks on the Veins of the Spine, The veins of the spine may be regarded, in reference to the general circu- lation, as establishing an unbroken communication between the veins of all parts of the trunk ; so that we can suppose one of the venaB cavse to be ob- literated, without the venous circulation being interrupted. The greater azygos itself, which is generally regarded as the principal means of commu- nication between the two venae cavae, is not, however, necessary, when we consider the arrangement of the anterior and posterior spinal plexuses. Thus, I have sometimes seen the inferior, and sometimes the superior, vena cava obliterated without any apparent increase in the diameter of the vena azygos, and, what will perhaps be thought surprising, without oedema, either of the upper or lower extremities. Supposing the vena cava ascendens to be obstructed from the entrance of the hepatic veins down to the renal veins, the blood would then flow back by the vertebro-lumbar veins into the plexuses contained within the spinal canal; through these plexuses, it would ascend to the vertebro-costal veins, from thence to the azygos veins, and through them into the superior vena cava. K all the jugular veins were obliterated, the venous circulation in the head would still continue, and would be carried on through the spinal veins. I have