COMPARATIVE ANATOMY OF THE CEREBRUM. 1013 Comparative Anatomy of the Cerebrum. The Optic Thalami and Corpora Striata. In analysing the brains of the lower animals, it is of the utmost importance clearly to distinguish the hemispheres, properly so called, from the optic tha- lami and corpora striata. . , , , . , . . • 1 /^-U *T,- The optic thalami are recogmsed by their havmg a ventricle (the third) between them, by being connected by an anterior and a posterior commissure, and moreover'by being continuous with the cerebral peduncles. The size of the optic thalami is always proportioned to that of the hemi- spheres. In fishes, the cerebrum appears to be almost entirely formed by the optic thalamL mi . There are no traces of corpora striata m fishes. Their existence m reptiles cannot be doubted. They are of enormous size in birds, in which they con- stitute almost the entire hemispheres. If it be true that in the animal series the size of the hemispheres is always directly proportioned to that of the optic thalami, such is not the case with the corpora striata, which as I have already stated are a kind of internal convolutions, and are often inversely proportioned in size to the hemispheres properly so called. Thus the corpora striata are very large in proportion to the hemispheres in the rodentia: in this respect, as in many others, the brain of this order of mam- malia approaches very near to that of birds. In the higher orders of mam- malia, as the camivora and quadrumana, the proportion between the corpora striata and the hemispheres is nearly the same as in the human subject. TTie Cerebral Hemispheres and Olfactory Lobes, In Mammalia. Man surpasses all the mammalia in regard to the size of the cerebral hemispheres and the number of their convolutions. The quadrumana stand next to man. The dolphin perhaps exceeds the ape in both respects, and this would tend to support the relations of travellers respecting the wonderful intelligence of this cetaceous animal. In the camivora and ruminantia, the hemispheres are smaller, the occipital lobe of the cerebrum does not exist, and the anterior part only of the cerebellum is covered. There is no fissure of Sylvius and no lobe of the corpus striatum. In all these animals, the number of the convolutions, and the depth of the anfractuosities, have appeared to me to be as great as they are in man, in pro- portion to the size of the hemispheres. I have not observed that regularity of the convolutions which several anatomists have pointed out as contrasting with their irregularity in man. The lowest order of mammalia, namely the rodentia, have the least com- plicated brain. It is shaped like the heart on playing cards, almost resembling the brain of birds. The cerebellum is completely exposed, and the tubercula quadrigemina are but partially covered by the cerebrum. There are scarcely any traces of convolutions, and the hemispheres are reduced to a membrane folded upon itself. The corpus callosum is extremely small, but the cornu ammonis is very large. These two parts seem to be developed inversely to each other. Thus the corpus callosum is larger and the cornu ammonis is smaller in man than in the lower animals. In the rodentia, the grey matter of the convolutions is reflected beneath the fornix.* In all mammalia, excepting the dolphin, the olfactory nerves, which are so delicate in man, form two thick pedicles lying under the anterior lobes of the cerebrum, and terminating in front by large ovoid bulbs, corresponding in size, * [Mr. Owen h.is discovered that tlic brain of marsupial animals resembles that of birds in wanting the corpus callosum (see his Memoir in Phit. Trans. 1837).] ' B B 4