INTERNAL STRUCTURE OF THE MEDULLA OBLONGATA. 941 The oblique sections display appearances corresponding with those of the horizontal section. . •. n •. i Vertical section. A very interesting section of the medulla oblongata is a vertical oue, extending from before backwards through the median line. I prefer the plan of forcibly separating the two halves of the medulla to that of dividing it with a scalpel. By this means it may be shown, that there are in the median line of the medulla some antero-posterior fibres, which appear to me to vai7 in number in different subjects: these fibres (o,fig. 274.) run from behind forwards, through the whole antero-posterior diameter of the medulla ; having reached the anterior median furrow, they pass horizontally outwards to cover the pyramids and olivary bodies, and form the arched fibres already described. These antero-posterior fibres are limited below by the decussating fibres of the pyramids. Examination of the Medulla Oblongata by Dissection under a Jet of Water, and when hardened in Alcohol. The anterior pyramids may be separated by ordinary dissection, and a toler- ably accurate view obtained of their decussations ; and, moreover, the medulla oblongata may be divided into two lateral halves, and its principal parts may then be isolated. The examination of the medulla when hardened in alcohol, or boiled in oil or in a solution of salt, leads to important results by enabling us to dissect it fibre by fibre, and to trace these fibres above and below their points of decussation. Together with these different modes of investigation, I have employed another, viz. that of acting upon the meduOa and its parts by a jet of water, the force and size of which is to be varied at pleasure, and the drops of which insinuate themselves between the fibres, and separate them from each other*. If a stream of water be directed upon the anterior pyramids, the fasciculated arrangement of their component fibres, all of which are parallel, wiU be clearly demonstrated; and it will also be seen that these two bodies are not mere medullary bands, but are two three-sided bundles occupying an angular groove between and in front of the two olivary bodies {fig. 269. C). The decussation of the anterior pyramids demands attention, as one of the most important points in the anatomy of the cerebro-spinal axis. On examining the anterior median groove of the medulla oblongata (see figs. 270. 276.) it will be found that, at a distance from the pons Varolii of about ten lines (Gall says an inch and some lines), the anterior pyramids divide into three or four bundles, which alternately interlace in a regular manner (below n), so as to form a plaited structure of from two to four lines in length. Is this decussation only apparent ? and if so, does the appearance result, as has been said, from the traction of parallel fibres in opposite directions ? or do the pyramids commence by alternate bundles arising from each side of the middle line, and does this alternate arrangement occasion the appearance of a de- cussation ? or, lastly, do the right and left pyramids actually cross like the limbs of the letter X ? On consulting the various authorities on this subject it is found, that the decussation of the pyramids, first pointed out by Aretseus, re-noticed by Fabri- cius Hildanus, and demonstrated by Mistichelli f and Pourfour Dupetltj, has been admitted by Santorini, Winslow, Lieutaud, Duverney, Scarpa, and Soemmerring; and that the opposite opinion has been maintained by Mor- are blended in the latter; a stream of water, directed upon the sections, will greatly assist the examination by making the colours more distinct . e / .^J'^" •^'"■''''^ ff^^i"*^ """f examination of a fresh medulla oblongata, it may easily be conceived that the results will be much more conclusive than if we had thus e" X?e,n°s"struc'tte '° """''^^ P^^P^ation that may have t Trattato dell 'Anoplcssia, 17r9. 1 Lettres d'un Mcdccin dcs Ildpitaux, 1710.