ANGEIOLOGY. 830 flexuous lines, which communicate occasionally with each other, pass from one mesenteric gland to another, enter the lymphatic glands situated in front of the aorta and vena cava, and terminate in the thoracic duct by a variable number of trunks: the lymphatic plexuses of the left side pass behind the aorta. The lacteals commence, according to Lieberkiihn, upon the summit of each of the villi of the small intestines, run down to its base, and then enter at right angles into the submucous lacteal vessels, which invariably perforate the other coats of the intestine, on its concave border. This arrangement was very evident in a case in which the lacteals were filled with tuberculous matter (Anat. Pathol, liv. ii. pi. 2. *) The lymphatics of the great intestine. We may with Mascagni divide these lymphatics into two sets according to the glands in which they terminate; viz. those of the coecum, and of the ascending and transverse colon, which pass through the meso-colic lymphatic glands and then terminate in the me- senteric glands, and those of the descending colon and rectum, which enter the lumbar lymphatic glands together with the lymphatics of the genital organs and of the lower extremities. The Lymphatic System of the Thorax. The Lymphatic Glands of the Thorax. The thoracic lymphatic glands are divided into those of the parietes of the thorax, those of the mediastinum, and the bronchial or pulmonary glands. The lymphatic glands of the parietes of the thorax are very small, and are thus arranged : the intercostal glands are situated on each side of the spine near the costo-vertebral articulations ; some are placed between the two layers of the intercostal muscles : they are very smaU, and irregular in number. The substernal or mammary glands are found at the anterior extremity of the in- tercostal spaces near the internal mammary vessels, and applied along the borders of the sternum ; there is one for each intercostal space. The mediastinal lymphatic glands are divided into those of the posterior medias- tinum, which are arranged along the oesophagus and aorta, and form a con- tinuation of the intercostal glands : they have been known to become enlarged and press upon the oesophagus, so as to cause dysphagia; and into those of the anterior mediastinum, the principal of which lie upon the diaphragm in front of the pericardium, and around the great vessels connected with the base of the heart. The bronchial or pulmonary glands were noticed by the oldest anatomists and especially by Vesalius, whence the name of glandules Vesaliana, by which they are stUl known : they are remarkable for their situation, number, size, and colour. They are situated along the bronchi and their first divisions. The largest are generally placed opposite the bifurcation of the trachea. The smallest lie within the substance of the lungs, around the first divisions of the bronchi; some of them are seen in the interlobular fissures. Their number is very considerable. In disease, they may acquire such a size as to compress and narrow the bronchi, and thus prevent the passage of the air through those tubes. In infancy they do not differ in colour from the other lymphatic glands, but they are black in the adult, and especially in the aged. They are also liable to become the seat of depositions of phosphate of lime. Senac considers them to be secreting glands quite distinct from the lymphatic glands. Portal divided them into true glands and lymphatic glands ; but no one has been able to demonstrate the excretory ducts, which, according to Portal, proceed from the lymphatic glands upon the trachea. The communications between these and the trachea, observed in some cases of disease, are altogether accidental. • See also note, Vol. 1. p. 487.