772 ANGEIOLOGY. times an inferior thyroid vein. At the point where it bends at the lower part ot the neck it receives a subcutaneous vein, which comes from the upper part of the thorax, and passes above the fourchette of the sternum. A t the same point, also, the right and left anterior jugular veins communicate with each other by a transverse branch (r, fig. 223.), into which branches derived from the inferior thyroid vein, or even some branches communicating directly with the left brachio-cephalic vein, pour their contents. Branches of origin. The anterior jugular vein often commences by sub- cutaneous and muscular branches, derived from the supra-hyoid region, and corresponding in their several courses to the branches of the sub-mental ar- tery. I have seen it arise from one end of a loop, the other end of which was continuous with the external jugular vein; at other times it commences by a common trunk with the facial and lingual veins. Lastly, I have seen the an- terior jugular form the continuation of the facial vein. The Internal Jugular Vein. The internal jugular vein {n,fig. 219.), the principal vein of the head, collects the blood from the interior of the cranium and from the greater part of the face and neck; it commences at the posterior lacerated foramen, and ter- minates in the brachio-cephalic vein (r), which is formed by the junction of the internal jugular with the subclavian vein (o). Its direction is vertical, without any deviation or bending. It is of considerable size, but varies in different individuals; it is seldom of equal size on both sides, and is inversely proportioned to the external and an- terior jugular veins ; it becomes extremely large in such chronic diseases as impede the entrance of blood into the cavities of the heart. I have sometimes seen the internal jugular vein of the left side very small, its place being then supplied, as in the lower animals, by a very large external jugular. Moreover, the internal jugular is not of uniform size throughout its whole length. It commences at the posterior lacerated foramen by a dilatation, which is called the gulf of the internal jugular vein; it continues of the same size until opposite the larynx, where it becomes greatly enlarged in consequence of re- ceiving several branches ; it terminates below in an oblong dilatation, and is again slightly contracted as it opens into the brachio-cephalic vein. This oblong dilatation in some asthmatic persons is very large, and might be called the sinus of the internal jugular vein. That part of the internal jugular vein which extends from the os hyoides to the brachio-cephalic vein represents the common carotid artery; the part in- cluded between the os hyoides and the posterior lacerated foramen represents the internal carotid ; and the series of branches which terminate in it represent the external carotid and the ramifications of that artery. These branches of the intemal j ugular, however, do not unite into a common trunk corresponding to the trunk of the external carotid artery, so that the distribution of this vein represents very nearly that variety in the distribution of the arteries of the neck, in which there is no external carotid artery; the branches usually given from it arising from the common carotid artery, which then terminates in the internal carotid. Relations. In that portion of its course which corresponds to the intemal carotid artery, the internal jugular vein has almost the same relations as that vessel: thus it is situated in the triangular interval between the pharynx and the ramus of the lower jaw; the artery, together with the pneumogastric, hypo-glossal, glosso-pharyngeal, and spinal accessory nerves lie to the inner side and in front of it; the styloid and vaginal processes and the styloid muscles are also anterior to the internal jugular vein. That portion of the vein which represents the common carotid artery lies on the outer side of that vessel and in contact with it, excepting below, where the carotid is directed somewhat inwards to reach the arch of the aorta, whilst the vein continues to be vertical, and is therefore separated from the artery. During its course it