THE HEART. 655 two arterial circles placed at right angles to each other; that is to say, one circle follows the auriculo-ventricular furrow, and the other occupies the inter-ventricular furrow. Veins. Corresponding to these two arteries, there is one vein, named the great cardiac or coronary vein, and a few small ones, called the anterior coronary veins. I do not think that the existence of those accessory veins described by Thebesius as terminating directly in the right aui-icle, and the other cavities of the heart, has heen clearly demonstrated. I have already said that the common openings of several groups of areolae have been often mistaken for the orifices of veins. There is always an opening resembling the orifice of a vein below the vena cava superior, but injection does not show any vessel there. Lymphatics. These terminate in the numerous lymphatic glands, which surround the brouchi and the lower part of the trachea. Nerves. The cardiac nerves are small when compared with the nerves re- ceived by other muscular organs, with those of the tongue for example, and especially with those of the muscles of the orbit. Some are derived from the cervical ganglia of the sympathetic nerves, the others from the cerebro-spinal system, viz. the cardiac branches of the pneumogastric. These nerves, which are placed near the arteries, follow them at first, but soon separate from them, and are lost in the muscular substance. We cannot therefore admit the opinion of Behrends, who attempted to prove that the nerves are intended only for the vessels of the heart, and not for its proper tissue. Cellular tissue. The serous cellular tissue which unites the muscular fasci- culi of the heart is so delicate, that it is extremely difficult to demonstrate it. In certain cases of disease it may become loaded with fat. We always find a greater or less amount of fat upon the surface of the heart beneath the serous membrane ; it abounds in the circular furrow be- tween the auricles and ventricles, in the furrow of the ventricles, at the apex and right border of the heart, in the furrow between the pulmonary artery and the aorta, and between the small digital appendages upon the top of the left auricle. Developement. In size. The heart is larger in proportion to the rest of the body in the earlier stages of its developement. In the foetus at the full term, and after birth, the weight of the heart is to that of the body as 1 to 120 ; before the end of the third month of intra- uterine life it is as 1 to 50. It should be remembered that, at the fourth or fifth week, the heart of the foetus occupies the entire cavity of the thorax. In old age the heart does not undergo atrophy like most of the other organs, and in many subjects far advanced in years it is even hypertrophied. In direction. During the first three months the heart of the foetus is di- rected vertically as in other mammalia; it does not begin to deviate to the left side and forwards, as in the adult, until the fourth month. In shape.* The heart at an early period foms a rounded and symmetrical mass, of which the auricles constitute the greatest part; the ventricles appear at this time to be only appendages of the heart, and the right auricle alone is equal in size to all the rest of the organ. The ventricles are gradually en- larged, whilst the auricles diminish, and towards the fifth month the due pro- portion between the auricles and ventricles is established ; the left ventricle is, at this period, more capacious than the right. The walls of the heart are thicker than they are afterwards, and the heart is firmer and does not collapse when empty. The thickness of the parietes of both ventricles is almost the same. In interned conformation. It is in reference to its internal structure that the principal changes occur duiing the developement of the heart. The right * See note, p. C50. VOL. II. C