FUNCTIONS OF THE CONVOLUTIONS. 981 The most internal of these convolutions forms the lower boundary of the anfractuosity which I have said corresponds to the posterior cornu of the 1^161*3^ ventricle From the anterior part of the convolution of the transverse fissure some extremely flexuous convolutions proceed from behind forwards, assist m forming the sphenoidal horn (point of the middle lobe), and become continuous with the convolutions of the external face of the hemisphere. Convolutions and Anfractuosities of ike Convex Surface. The convolutions upon the convex surface of the hemisphere are un- doubtedly the most complicated; on separating the borders of the fissure of Sylvius, within which the island of Keil is contained, it is seen that the fissure is triangular, and presents three sides: an inferior border, formed by the external convolution of the anterior lobe of the cerebrum ; a posterior border, directed very obliquely upwards and backwards, which appears to receive all the occipital convolutions, and consists of a very tortuous convolution ; and a superior border, also consisting of a very windiiag convolution, in which the majority of the superior convolutions terminate. The convolutions upon the convex surface of the brain may be divided into the frontal, the parietal, and the occipital. The frontal convolutions are three or four in number, and are directed from before backwards. The parietal convolutions are three in number; they pass in a serpentine direction from within outwards, and become continuous with the convolution which forms the superior border of the fissure of Sylvius. The occipital convolutions are directed from before backwards, and proceed, either from the posterior parietal convolution, or from the posterior border of the fissure of Sylvius. The occipital convolutions are the narrowest and the most sinuous of aU, so that the sides of the sinuosities of each convolution are in mutual contact in the greatest part of their extent, and touch the adjacent convolutions only at the points at which they are bent.* The frontal convolutions are also very flexuous, and have similar cha- racters to the occipital, but not so distinctly marked. They are larger than the occipital convolutions, but smaller than the parietal, which are, moreover, less tortuous than either of the others. The unusual details with which I have described the convolutions can only be justified by the importance which has recently been attached to them. In the preceding description the following points have been noticed: — Their general disposition, their windings, and their mutual adaptation; their continuity, and the impossibility of drawing any precise limits between them I their general configuration, according to a common type, and the want of uniformity in their details, not only in different brains, but also in the opposite hemispheres of the same brain ; their variable dimensions in different individuals, both in respect of depth and width, these being always directly proportioned to the size of the cerebral hemisphere : the individual differences both in the size of the brain and in that of the convolutions are very great.f We have also seen that the internal surface of the cranium is eactly moulded upon the surface of the brain, the digital impressions in the cranial bones cor- responding to the convolutions, and the ridges or eminences to the small spaces intervening between the free borders of the convolutions. Functions of the Convolutions and Anfractuosities. The convolutions and anfractuosities render the surface of the brain of much greater extent than it would otherwise have been. According to Vesalius, • In senile atrophy the occipital convolutions are chiefly aflected. t Comparative anatomy fully confirms this fact: the convolutions of a small hemisphere are birls developed, and they do not exist at all when the hemispheres are very thin, as in z4