1070 NEUROLOGY. arises merely from its early subdivision. During its course, the internal inguinal nerve is crossed by the ureter and covered by the spermatic vessels.* The internal or scrotal branch (e,fig. 290.) crosses over the front of the femoral artery, gains the internal orifice of the inguinal canal, crosses the epigastric artery, and before entering the inguinal canal, gives off several filaments which are reflected upwards, and dip into the substance of the internal oblique and transversalis ; the scrotal branch is placed below the spermatic cord, from which it is perfectly distinct, runs with it through the whole length of the ingumal canal (b,fig. 291.), rests upon the reflected portion of the femoral arch orGim- bernat's ligament, and emerges from the external orifice of the inguinal canal, opposite the lower end of the external pillar: at this point it is reflected, passes vertically downwards behind the cord, and ramifies in the skin of the scrotum of the male, and of the labia majora in the female. The femoral cutaneous branch gains the crural ring ; but before entering the ring, it gives off a great number of very delicate filaments, which are reflected upwards behind the arch, to be distributed to the lower part of the psoas-iliac and transverse muscles: it then passes through the crural ring, in contact with its outer angle, and crosses the circumflex ilii artery at its origin, just as we have shown that the scrotal nerve crosses the epigastric artery ; after leaving ;he crural ring ie,fgs. 291, 292.), it lies beneath the fascia, but soon becomes subcutaneous, anastomoses with a cutaneous branch of the crural nerve, and may be traced beyond the middle of the thigh.f I have already stated, in describing the external inguinal nerve, that the posterior or gluteal cutaneous branch of the external inguinal nerve is often given off by the internal inguinal nerve. In that case this branch runs out- wards, crosses the external nerve at a very acute angle under the femoral arch, and escapes from below the arch on the outer side of that nerve to turn round the tensor vaginae femoris. iiot unfrequently the filaments for the lower part of the internal oblique and transverse muscles arise by one or more distinct bi-anches. The Terminax Branches of the Lumbar Plexus. These are three in number, viz. the obturator nerve, the crural nerve, and the great communicating branch between the lumbar and sacral plexus, called the lumbosacral trunk or nerve, which I regard as a dependence of the sacral plexus. The Obturator Nerve. The obturator nerve (A, fig. 290.), which is distributed exclusively to the ex- ternal obturator muscle, to the three adductors of the thigh, and to the gracilis, is the smallest of the terminal branches of the lumbar plexus; it arises from the third and fourth lumbar nerves by two equal branches, which unite at an acute angle ; it perforates the psoas, passes under the angle of bifurcation of the common iliac artery and vein, runs along the inner surface of the psoas, crosses very obliquely over the sides of the brim of the pelvis, and is then placed below the external iliac vessels, with which it forms an acute angle, and above the obturator artery : throughout the whole of this course, it is enveloped in the subperitoneal cellular tissue of that region, and thus flattened and enlarged, reaches the internal orifice of the obturator or subpubic canal, on emerging from which it expands into diverging branches {h,Jig. 291.) for the adductors and the gracilis muscle of the thigh. * Sometimes a small eiament comes off from the genito-crural nerve whilst it is still within the substance of the psoas, descends vertically on the inner side of this nerve, gives off a fila- ment which is lost upon the external iliac artery, and then again becomes united with the nerve from which it had been given off. . » . i „„, in + In order to assist the memory, by connecting these nerves with important parts, 1 »"> the habit of calling the femoral cutaneous branch of the internal inguinal nerve the brancn qj the crural ring, and the scrotal branch, the branch the inguinal canal. The scrotal br.incn may be cut in relieving the stricture in inguinal hernia by the division of Gimbcrnat s ligament. and the femoral cutaneous branch maj; be wounded when the external angle of the crural ring is divided for the relief of femoral hernia.