GENERAL DESCRIPTION OF THE RECTI MUSCLES. 865 <;ranial or abducens oculi nerve, and continuous with the external origin of the sunerior rectus A fibrous arch under which certain veins pass, unites these two origins and also serves as a point of attachment to the muscular fibres. From these points the muscle passes obliquely forwards and outwards along the external wall of the orbit, is reflected upon the eyebaU, and terminates like the other recti muscles. General Description and Action of the Recti Muscles. The four straight muscles of the eye arise from the bottom of the orbit, and terminate upon the eyeball, a few lines from the cornea. . , , • Thev all have the same form, viz. that of a long isosceles triangle, having its base turned forwards and its "apex backwards. Their relations are also similar • thus they correspond, on the one hand, to the periosteum of the orbit, and on the other to the optic nerve and the globe of the eye, from which they are separated by some fat and vessels. In consequence of their being inserted in front of the transverse diameter of the eye, they are all reflected upon the eyeball: this fact is rendered much more evident when the eye is drawn in an opposite direction to that in which the particular muscle under examination would act. Their tendons are sur- rounded with a whitish, and as it were elastic cellular tissue, by which the movements of these muscles are facilitated. * The recti differ from each other, both in length and thickness. Thus, the internal rectus is the shortest and thickest, the external rectus is the longest, and the superior rectus is the smallest. Action. K these muscles were not reflected upon the globe of the eye, their action would be simply to draw it forcibly backwards towards the bottom of the orbit ? but in consequence of this reflection they can give it a rotatory mo- tion. Thus, the superior and inferior rec i rotate the eyeball upon its trans- verse axis, whilst the internal and external recti rotate it upon its vertical axis. After either of these effects is produced, the eye is then drawn back- wards. The direct movement backwards is produced by the simultaneous contraction of the four muscles. When any two adjacent recti act together, the eye is moved in the diagonal of the two forces exerted by those muscles; and hence the eye, and therefore the pupil, can pass over all the radii of the circle represented by the base of the orbit: this arrangement is not only highly favourable to the exploratory power of the eye, but also assists in placing the function of vision under the control of the will, since it enables us to turn away the eyes from any offen- sive object. The straight muscles of the eye, as well as the oblique muscles, also aid in expressing the passions: and hence the following names have been given to them by the ancients. — The superior rectus is called superhus (mi- rator, Haller) \ the inferior rectus, humilis; the external rectus, indignatorius ; the internal rectus, amatorius seu bibitorius. Lastly, it has been supposed that the muscles of the eye, by compressing that organ, can alter the distance between the retina and the crystalline lens ; and a theory to explain the power we possess of adapting the eye for distinct vision at different distances, has even been constructed on the supposed pos- sibility of this compression. The necessarily simultaneous and co-ordinate action sometimes of the same muscle, and sometimes of different muscles in the two eyes, is a remarkable physiological fact. Thus, the contraction of the superior rectus of the right eye is of necessity accompanied by contraction of the corresponding muscle of left eye; whilst the contraction of the external rectus of one eye is accom- panied by contraction of the internal rectus of the other eye, and vice versa -. the will can neither prevent nor disarrange these co-ordinate contractions. » [Small synovial biirsic have been described as existing between these tendons and the Elobe or the eye.] ■ " Q 2