CENTRAL EXTREMITY OF THE OPTIC NERVE. 1097 optic commissure), or rather the two optic nerves unite before they pass to their respective destinations. . On turning the cerebellum forwards, it is seen that the optic tracts {2, fig. 295.) are continuous with the corpora geniculata externa (6), and conse- quently take their origin from the optic thalami (a), of which these bodies are a dependence. In some cases, the white ribbon-like band, or optic tract, which constitutes the origin of the optic nerve, is also continuous with the corpus geniculatum internum (c). In the human subject, the optic nerves never arise, either entirely or in part, from the anterior tubercula quadrigemina (nates) ; it is only by induction that this mode of origin has been admitted in the himian subject. * The optic tract (2,^5-. 272.), having arisen from the corpus geniculatum externum (above i) with which it is continuous, without any other line of demarcation excepting the difference of colour, assumes the appearance of a thin and broad ribbon, which turns round the cerebral peduncle (u) parallel to and on the inner side of the great transverse fissure of the brain. During this course, it lies in contact with the peduncle of the cerebrum, from which it may be separated without laceration, excepting at its outer border, by which it adheres so intimately that the peduncle has been supposed to supply it with several roots. As soon as it gets beyond the peduncle, the optic tract {s,fig. 276.) is con- densed into a flat cord, which leaves the peduncle, passes inwards and for- wards, and unites with its fellow of the opposite side, to form the chiasma (square space of Zinn, <), or rather to form with the optic tract of the oppo- site side, a commissure which is convex in front and concave behind. On leaving the commissure, it completely changes its direction (2), passing forwards and outwards, to enter almost immediately into the optic foramen (2,y?^.296.). During its course in front of the peduncle of the cerebrum, it is in relation with the following parts: behind, with the tuber cinereum (v), from the inte- rior of which some white fibres arise, and pass to the chiasma ; in front, with the membrane which forms the anterior portion of the floor of the third ven- tricle and which is prolonged upon the upper surface of the chiasma. An important question here presents itself, viz. Is there a complete or partial decussation of the optic nerves in the commissure ? Do these two nerves in- terlace without decussating, or rather is there an intimate mixture of their fibres ? Are the nerves placed in simple juxtaposition and vmited by a trans- verse band ? Lastly, does the chiasma constitute a commissure in whicli the two optic tracts terminate, or rather which serves as a point of origin for the optic nerves ? All these opinions have found supporters, and facts have been quoted in favour of each; a circumstance which proves, not that there are anatomical varieties in the structure of the chiasma, but that its structure is of a complex nature. Comparative anatomy proves that the optic nerves decussate in the com- missure : iu fishes, the two nerves cross without tmiting : it is also proved by * The origin of the optic nerves varies in the different classes of animals. In birds, in which these nerves are at their maximum development, thev arise entirely from the tubercula quad- rigemina, which arc the opitc lobes in these animals, .liid are transposed from the side to the base of the brain. The ontic thalami do not assist iu forming these nerves. In rodentia, a small number of fibres from the optic th.dami join the mass of those which are derived from the nates. In carnivora, the number of filaments from the tubercula quadrigemina and from the optic thalami are almost equal. Moreover, if it be remembered that the tubercula quadrigemina, the corpora geniculata externa and interna, and the optic thalami themselves, belong to the same system of organs, and form a continuation of the reinforcing fasciculi Uaisceaux inno. mines) of the medulla oblongata ; and if other facts confirmatory of the preceding also be taken into consideration, namely, that a white band proceeds on each side from tlie natis to the corpus geniculatum externum, and another from the testis to the corpus geniculatum internum : it will he easy to account for these varieties of origin, whicli can all be reduced to the same type. It is of some importance in regard to this question, that in a great number of cases of atrophy of the optic nerve which I have had occasion to examine in the humau subject, the corpus eeni- culatum externum was airccled, and not tlie natis.