887 THE AURICLE. observed upon upper part, we Fig. 282. it ■ at its centre, but somewhat nearer to the lower than the find the concha (a, fig. 252.), a funnel-shaped excavation, the form and expansion of which are familiar to all, and at the fore-part of the bottom of which is found the orifice of the external auditory meatus. The concha is bounded in front by the tragus (6). a tri- angular process, the adherent base of which is turned for- wards and inwards, whilst its free apex is directed back- wards and outwards: it advances like a lid over the orifice of the external auditory meatus, which is completely closed by its depression. The posterior surface of the tragus, which forms part of the concha, is covered with stiff hairs, especially in old subjects; whence its name of tragus, from Tpayos, a goat. The use of these hairs is to arrest any smaU particles that are floating in the air. ^ . ^ . ^ ^ Behind and below, that is, opposite the tragus, the concha is bounded by the anti-tragus (c), a triangular tongue, which is smaller than the tragus, and is separated from it by a wide, deep, and rounded notch, named the notch of the concha {incisura tragicd). Behind and above, the concha is bounded by the anti-helix (e), a curved fold, which commences above the anti-tragus, being separated from that part by a slio-ht depression, passes upwards and forwards, bifurcates, and then ends in the oToove of the helix. The superior branch of the bifurcation of the anti- helis is broad and smooth, whilst the inferior is sharp; between them is situated a slight depression, called the scaphoid, or navicular fossa, but which would be more correctly named the fossa of the anti-helix (/). The term helix (eAf|, a roU; from kxlaine, to roll around) is applied to a curved fold {g g) which forms the external border of the auricle : it commences in the cavity of the concha, which it divides into two unequal parts, one superior and narrow, the other inferior and broader; gradually increasing in size, it then passes upwards and forwards above the external meatus, then above the tragus, from which it is separated by a very distinct fuiTow: it next runs directly upwards, curves backwards, descends to form the posterior mar- gin of the auricle, and terminates by becoming continuous with the anti-helix in front, and with the lobule (I) behind. . The groove or furrow of the helix is the groove (i) which surrounds the helix and separates it from the anti-helix. The lobule occupies the lower or small extremity of the auricle, from the rest of which it is distinguished by its softness; it is surmounted by the tragus in front, by the anti-tragus behind, and by the notch of the concha in the middle. The lobule of the ear varies exceedingly in size in different indi- viduals, and is the part to which ear-rings are generally appended. The structure of the auricle. The cartilage of the ear (^figs. 253, 253*.) con- stitutes the framework of the auricle, in a great measure determines its shape, and is the cause of its pliability and elas- ticity. When the skin is removed from it, this cartilage, therefore, presents certain emi- nences and depressions, corresponding, with some exceptions, to those already described as existing upon the surface of the auricle. The cartilage of the ear has no part corresponding' with the lo- bule : again, the cartilaginous fold which constitutes the helix terminates at the middle of the concha, from whence It IS continued by a fold of skin, which, moreover, covers it throughout and increases its prominence. Upon the cartilage of the auricle we also ob- serve the following parts: — 1. A raammiUated eminence (re, fig. 253 ) called Fifr. 253.