NEUROLOGY. 914 history. Vessels. In respect of the number and size of its vessels, the cranial dura ma- ter seems to form an exception to fibrous membranes in general, which are re- markable for their slight vascularity. It receives, in fact, the foUowing arteries —the middle meningeal, which is a branch of the internal maxillary artery; the anterior meningeal, from the ethmoidal artery ; and the posterior meningeal, from the ascending pharyngeal, or pharyngo-meningeal. Nevertheless, if we consider that these vessels are situated between the dura mater and the bones, and that they are almost entirely distributed to the bones, we shall be able to account for the apparent anomaly in the number and size of these vessels. The veins of the dura mater are two venae comites for each meningeal artery, and the small veins which enter the sinuses; the venous sinuses themselves are situated between the two layers of this membrane. The lymphatics form a network upon the internal surface of the dura mater, but do not appear to belong to the proper fibrous tissue. Nerves of the dura mater. On consulting the various writers upon this subject, it is found to be involved in the strangest perplexity : some authors admit, whilst others deny in the most positive manner, the existence of nerves in this membrane; and those who do admit their existence, dififer altogether in regard to their origin. Modern anatomists, with Haller, Wrisberg, and Lobstein, state that there are no nerves in the dura mater; on the other hand, Vieussens, Winslow, Lieutaud, Lecat, Valsalva, and others, declare that they have observed them. Valsalva says, that they are derived from the seventh pair; aU. the other authors state that they arise from the fifth; but they do not agree as to the exact point of origin, which, according to some, is the Gasserian ganglion ; and according to others, either the ophthalmic, or the superior or inferior maxillary divisions of that nerve. Chaussier admits their existence, and says that they are derived from the ganglionic system ; but it is evident that he has been led to this conclusion from theory, and not from actual observation. Accident has enabled me most distinctly to demonstrate nerves in the dura mater. In a head which had been macerated in diluted nitric acid, and afterwards in water, the dura mater having become transparent and jelly-like, I was surprised to see within its substance certain white lines exactly re- sembling nervous filaments. I cut down to these white lines, ascertained that they were nerves, and dissected them throughout their whole course. I re- cognised on each side of the middle line two nervous filaments which came from the fifth nerves, and reached nearly to the superior longitudinal sinus. There was a third nervous filament in the substance of the tentorium cerebelli, but I could not ascertain its origin.* Uses of the cranial dura mater. The dura mater serves as an internal pe- riosteum for the bones of the cranium, with which it has numerous vascular connections; and it also covers and defends the encephalon. Its prolongations separate from each other the different parts of the encephalon, and in some measure prevent the effects of concussion. It also contains within its sub- stance certain venous canals, in which all the blood is returned from the en- cephalon. to the termination of the sacral canal. In order to ascertain the capacity of this fibrous sheath, it must be I * [The tentorium receives a branch from the fourth cranial nerve (see descriptii T7ie Spinal Portion of the Dura Mater. nerve).]