1132 NEUROLOGY. The Second Portion of the Eighth Nerve, or the Pneumogastric Nerve. Dissection. Lay open the back part of the foramen lacerum posterius, and afterwards examine the nerve in the different parts of its course successively. The pneumogastric nerve, called also the vagus nerve, the par vagum, and the tenth cranial nerve of some modern authors, is the principal branch of the eighth nerve (8,^17. 301.), and is one of the most remarkable nerves in the body, both on account of the extent of its distribution, and of the importance of the organs supplied by it. It supplies branches, on the one hand, to the larynx, the lungs, and the heart; and, on the other, to the pharynx, the oeso- phagus, the stomach, and the solar plexus. It has already been stated that this nerve arises from the upper part of the medulla oblongata, upon the restiform bodies, and in a line with the posterior roots of the spinal nerves ; that its filaments of origin converge, and then unite at first into seven or eight fasciculi, and then into a single cord, which passes towards the foramen lacerum posterius, through which it emerges from the cranium. The pneumogastric nerve then runs vertically (p,^^. 301.) in the neck along the vertebral column, enters the thorax, runs along the oesophagus, with which it passes through the diaphragm, and terminates on the stomach and in the solar plexus. We shall now proceed to examine this nerve whilst it is within the foramen lacerum posterius; as it is emerging from that foramen; and as it descends in the neck, in the thorax, and in the abdomen. The Pneumogastric Nerve within the Foramen Lacerum Posterius. At the foramen lacerum posterius the pnemogastric nerve passes through the same opening as the spinal accessory, which lies in contact with it; a fibrous, cartilaginous, or bony septum separates it from the glosso-pharyngeal, which lies in front of it; and another cartilaginous and often bony septum separates it from the internal jugular vein. As it is passing through the foramen it presents a well-marked ganglionic structure ; I would say rather a grey substance containing white nervous filaments, but without any observable swelling : hence, most anatomists have denied the existence of a ganglion at this spot. To this ganglion, the ganglion of the pneumogastric, which may be compared to the Gasserian ganglion and to the intervertebral ganglia, the spinal acces- sory nerve is applied, and is connected with it by several very delicate filaments. I have already stated, that not unfrequently the highest roots of the spinal accessory nerve join the pneumogastric directly. This ganglion gives ofi' an anastomotic twig which enters the petrosal gan- glion of the glosso-pharyngeal: I have not always found this filament; it also gives an anastomotic branch to the facial nerve, viz. the auricular branch of the pneumogastric of Arnold. This branch might be called the branch of the jugular fossa; it can be very well seen through the coats of the jugular vein, when that vessel is laid open. It runs along the anterior part of the jugular fossa, between it and the internal jugular vein, gives off an anastomotic twig to the nerve of Jacobson, enters the temporal bone through an opening in the jugular fossa, near the styloid process, and traverses a very short canal, which conducts it directly into the Fallopian aqueduct, in which it anastomoses with the facial nerve. * » I have seen this branch, immediately after its origin, enter the sheath of the glosso-pha- rvneeal nerve run along its ganglion, and then curve backwards to enter the jugular fossa. Arnold, who first described this anastomotic branch, represents it as divided mto three fila- ments ■ an ascending, which anastomoses with the trunk of the facial nerve; a descending, wh!ch 'anastomoses with the posterior auricular branch of the same nervo, and a middle («, fig- 299.), which r.imifies upon the external auditory meatus.