NEUROLOGY. 1012 also the optic thalami. The tubercula quadrigemina and the cerebellum are still exposed. The anterior lobes only of the cerebriun are formed. The posterior lobes seem to be merely appendages. The hemispheres then con- stitute at this period a membranous sac which is open on the inner side and be- hind, and may be regarded as representing the brain of reptiles. The corpus callosum begins to appear under the form of a narrow commissure, which unites the two hemispheres in front, they being completely separated behind. In the fourth and fifth months, the cerebrum covers the anterior part of the tubercula quadrigemina. The posterior lobe exists, the fissure of Sylvius, which is well-marked, separating it from the anterior lobe. We observe here and there some small depressions, the traces of anfractuosities. The olfactory nerves, which are very large, and are said to have been found hollow as in the lower animals, appear to arise from the Sylvian fissure. The corpus callosum is still very small, so that the optic thalami and the third ventricle are exposed. At this period, the human brain has some analogy with that of the rodentia. In the sixth month, the cerebrum covers the tubercula quadrigemina and the greater part of the cerebellum. The only traces of convolutions are found upon the internal surface of the hemispheres. The corpus callosum is pro- longed backwards with the hemispheres, and from being vertical now becomes horizontal. At the seventh month, the corpora albicantia, which had hitherto formed a single mass, as in the lower animals, become separated. The convolutions are defined, and the cerebrum projects behind the cerebellum. The changes occurring in the eighth and ninth months appear to be the developement of the convolutions and the perfection of the other parts of the brain. At this period, the characters of the human brain are well defined. It may not be impossible perhaps to recognise in the rapid phases of this de- velopement, the characters of the brain in the different orders of mammalia ; but it is necessary to observe greater caution in admitting these analogies than has been evinced by various naturalists. As the corpus callosum continues to be developed backwards it ends by reaching the anterior tubercula quadrigemina. The corpora striata do not exhibit their white, radiating fibres until near birth or soon after it. The originating fasciculi of the fornix are not seen in the interior of the optic thalami until the latter months of intra-uterine life; and until then also the transverse commissures and the white fibres of the optic commissure do not appear.* The lateral ventricles are formed by the turning backwards and inwards of the membrane which constitutes the hemispheres. And as this membrane is very thin until the end of the third month, it follows that at this period the lateral ventricles are proportionally much larger than they are afterwards. The anterior comua of these ventricles are developed before the descending cornua, and these before the posterior comua. During all this period, the anterior cornua communicate with the cavities in the olfactory nerves. At the sixth month, the lateral ventricles are completely closed. The choroid plexuses, which exist in all animals provided with lateral ventricles, begin to appear as soon as these cavities. The distinction between the grey and white matter does not become evident until after birth. Tiedemann is of opinion, that the formation of the grey matter takes place after that of the white. This appears to me a pure hypo- thesis The two substances are formed at the same time; but, properly speaking, they are neither white nor grey, and they do not acquire their dis- tinctive characters until some little time afterwards. . [Tiedemann describes 6bres as distinctly ^PP«™f'° '^e/°r^u8^nata somewhat earlier.]