882 NEUROLOGY. and which, like that artery, traverses the vitreous body from behind forwards. I have never been able to see this canal. No vessels have been demonstrated in the hyaloid membrane ; it does not receive any from the retina, and yet we cannot doubt that it is provided with them. Although the structure of the ciliary processes of the vitreous body is little known, yet, as it is probable that it is similar to that of the ciliary pro- cesses of the choroid, and therefore essentially vascular, it may be as stated by M. Ribes, that the materials for the formation and nutrition of the lens and of the ciliary processes of the vitreous body are conveyed to both of these parts through the vascular ciliary processes of the choroid. The Crystalline Lens and its Capsule. The crystalline lens (I, figs. 241. 244, 245. 248.) is a transparent body, having the form of a lens, as its name implies; it is situated at the junction of the posterior three fourths with the anterior fourth of the globe of the eye, and is placed between the vitreous body, which is behind, and the aqueous humour, which is in front (see fig. 241.). Its axis corresponds to the centre of the pupil. It is shaped like a double convex lens, the posterior surface of which is more convex than the anterior. From some very exact and minute investigations which have been made upon this point by Francois Petit and others, it appears that both the relative and the absolute convexity of the two surfaces of the crystalline lens are subject to great varieties in different individuals; that, in general, the posterior convexity forms part of a circle from four to five lines in diameter, while the anterior forms part of one from six to nine lines in diameter. In some subjects the degree of curvature of the two surfaces of the crystalline lens is almost equal. In the foetus the crystalline lens approaches the sphe- roidal form, which is that which it has in fishes. The anterior surface of the crystalline lens corresponds to the iris, from which it is separated by the aqueous humour. It has been incorrectly stated by Winslow that the crystalline lens pushes the iris forwards : there is a space between the crystalline lens and the iris which constitutes the posterior cham- ber of the eye. The anterior surface of the lens may be seen through the pupil, so that slight shades of difference in the colour of the lens may be de- tected. When the pupil is very much dilated, the anterior surface of the lens is entirely exposed. Its posterior surface is in relation with the vitreous body, which is depressed so as to receive it. This surface does not adhere to the hyaloid membrane. "When dissecting a subject of twenty-seven years of age who had suffered with hydrophthalmia in both eyes, M. Ribes found about six grains of a limpid fluid between the hyaloid membrane and the crystalline lens; so that the space occupied by this fluid might have been taken for a third chamber. The margin of the lens (I, fig. 248.) is set (like the stone of a brooch) in the ciliary processes (a) of the vitreous body, which cover and adhere to the fore part of that margin, so that the lens is kept firmly in its place. Its margin is surrounded by the canal of Petit (^fig. 247.). , The crystalline lens presents different shades of colour at different periods of life It is reddish in the foetus, but is perfectly transparent after birth ; in the adult, it becomes slightly opaline at the centre ; in the aged, it acqmres a yellowish opacity, which approaches somewhat to the colour of amber or topaz Morbid opacity of the lens constitutes lenticular cataract. The crystalline lens consists of a capsule and of a proper substance inclosed itbstance of the crystalline lens. When stripped of its capsule the crys- talline lens is found to have three degrees of consistence, at different parts: thus, at its surface, it is almost of a hqmd softness ; below this it is soft and gelatinous, and may be crushed by the finger-this is the cortical layer; and.