879 THE RETINA. vision, expresses a somewhat different opinion: according to his view, the retina' having reached the ciliary processes, divides into numerous tongues, each of which passes between two of the ciliary processes, and terminates by expanding upon the circumference of the crystalline lens. A careful exami- nation has proved to me distinctly, that the retina terminates by a defined edge (margo dentatus ; r' r',fig. 241.; m,fig. 245.) at the posterior extremities of the ciliary processes of the vitreous body (a), to which processes it adheres rather firmly, though it can be sometimes separated from them without laceration. Is the retina an expansion of the medullary part of the optic nerve, or is it a special organ continuous with that nerve? Although the former of these opinions appears more probable than the latter, stUl it is liable to objections. The optic nerve is constructed in a particular manner as it passes through the sclerotic, and the correspond- ing nervous substance is so arranged that pressure upon the nerve does not force the nervous substance into the interior of the eye, though pressure upon every other part of the nerve causes a white pulpy matter to exude from its divided surface. The retina is semi-transparent, like a thin layer of opal: it scarcely holds together, and can be torn with the greatest facility. It does not appear to me to be thicker behind than in front. The radiated lines stated by several of the older anatomists, and also by M. Duges, to exist in the retina, can only be distinguished behind at the entrance of the optic nerve. This radiated character was evident in the eye of an ox which I recently examined. The optic nerve divided into three thick diverging bundles which expanded into a layer; but this filamentous arrange- ment was soon succeeded by what appeared, at least, to be a pulpy structure. Two layers are described in the retina — an external, which is pulpy and nervous; and an internal, which is vascular, and is formed by the ramifications of the arteria centralis retinae; but this subdivision of the retina is purely fic- titious. Soemmerring has given a good representation of the vascular network, which seems in some manner to support the nervous substance. The foramen centrale, the fold, and the limbus luteus of the retina. Soemmerring was the first to describe in the retina a foramen {foramen centrale), which had escaped the researches of Ruysch, Zinn, and Haller, doubtless because it is , concealed by the folds formed by the retina, at this point. *" It is doubtful whether these folds of the retina result from the collapsed condition of the eyebaO, which necessarily follows the dissection required for the examination of its interior; or whether they are really part of its structure, and should be regarded as the vestige of the singular folds existing in dififerent kinds of animals, and especially in birds, the visual powers of which are thereby greatly increased. However this may be, the foramen, which is always situated to the outer side of the entrance (6, fig- 246.) of the optic nerve, is surrounded with a zone of a canary-yellow colour: this is the limbus luteus fo- raminis centralis {Soemmerring), or the yellow spot of Soemmerring (a). The foramen centrale and the limbus luteus exist in man and the quadrumana only; that is to say, in those cases only in which the visual axes of the two eyes are parallel to each other, as in man. I have not found that the yellow spot corresponds Interior of left eye. *° thickest part of the retina. It should, moreover, be observed, that the foramen centrale, not the entrance of the optic nerve, corresponds to the antero-pos- tenor axis of the globe of the eye, and is the true centre of the retina. VOL. II. R •