THE ULNAR NERVE IN THE HAND. 1057 digitorum, which subdivides and enters the substance of that muscle. Its di- visions run upon the anterior surface of the muscle before penetrating it. This branch is intended for the two inner portions of the flexor profundus, the two outer portions receiving their filaments from the median nerve. * At the middle of the fore-arm, a smaU, long, and slender branch is given off from the anterior part of the ulnar nerve, and divides into two filaments, one of which follows the ulnar artery (^filament of the ulnar artery), whilst the other perforates the fascia of the fore-arm and anastomoses -with the internal cui&- neoas nerve (anastomotic filament). The internal dorsal nerve of tlie hand (x) is the largest of the branches of the ulnar nerve ; so that it might be regarded as a terminal branch of that nerve; it is exclusively intended for the skin of the dorsal region of the hand. It comes off opposite the junction of the two upper thirds with the lower third of the fore-arm, passes obliquely downwards, backwards, and inwards, between the ulna, over which it crosses, and the flexor carpi ulnaris, and emerges (x,fig. 289.) from below the tendon of that muscle, a very short distance above the lower end of the ulna. It then descends vertically between the skin and that part of the bone, runs along the inner side of the carpus and divides into two dorsal branches, an internal, and an external. The internal dorsal branch is the smaller, it runs along the ulnar border of the fifth metacarpal bone, and along the internal or ulnar side of the dorsal region of the little finger, of which it forms the internal collateral dorsal nerve. The external dorsal branch is much larger; it first gives ofi' a small anas- tomotic twig which crosses obliquely over the metacarpal bone and anastomoses with a correspondingly oblique branch from the radial nerve opposite the lower part of the second interosseous space. It then descends vertically along the fourth interosseous space and divides into two secondary- branches, which again subdivide to form the dorsal collateral nerves in the following manner : one forms the external collateral nerve of the little finger, and the internal colla- teral nerve of the ring finger ; and the other the external collateral nerve of die ring finger, and the internal collateral nerve of the middle finger, f In the Hand. The ulnar nerve enters the palm of the hand (s, fig. 288.), not by passing behind the anterior annular ligament but in a special sheath, which is com- mon to it and to the ulnar artery, is situated on the inner side of the annular ligament, and has the pisiform bone to its inner side, and the unciform bone to its outer side. This sheath is completed behind by the ligament which ex- tends from the pisiform to the unciform bone, and in front by a sort of annular ligament. The nerve is covered by a synovial membrane during its passage through this sheath. As soon as it leaves this sheath, the ulnar nerve divides into two terminal branches, the one superficial, and the other deep. The superficial terminal branch or trunk of the palmar collateral nerves of tlie fingers immediately gives off a branch which passes beneath the flexor brevis digiti minimi, penetrates the deep surface of that muscle, and immediately di- vides into two other branches, an internal and an external. The internal is the smaller branch; it crosses over the muscles of the ball of the little finger, be- neath the palmaris brevis when it exists, gains the inner side of the anterior surface of the little finger, and forms its internal palmar collateral nerve. % The external is larger ; it sends a communicating twig to the median nerve, and bi- furcates to form the external palmar collateral nerve of the little finger, and the internal palmar collateral nerve of the ring finger. The deep terminal or muscular branch is somewhat larger than the super- ficial branch. Immediately after its origin, it is reflected outwards below the ! tX!'? "J""'' "'jy communicate In this position with filaments of the anterior interosseous 1 nerve ] branch olten anastomoses with the dorsal cutaneous branch of the radial t I have observed that It supplies the palmaris brevii, when that muscle exists. E F. 2