1014 NEUROLOGY, to that of the ethmoidal fossa;; these enlargements are named olfactory lobes. They are continuous with the innermost convolutions of the sphenoidal horn of the posterior lobe, which presents above and below certain white fibres or striae that are continuous with the cerebral peduncles. The olfactory lobes have no relation with the corpora striata, as Cuvier was the first to observe. In the dolphin as in man the corpora striata are very much developed. The developement of the olfactory lobe is inversely proportioned to that of the cornu ammonis. In Birds. The cerebral hemispheres in birds are shaped like a heart on playing cards as in the rodentia; there are no lobes and no convolutions, excepting a very superficial longitudinal furrow situated on each side of the median Une. The brain almost entirely consists of the corpora striata. The hemisphere is formed by a very thin grey lamina, upon which are observed certain white radiated fibres. This lamina commences at the inner part of the corpus striatum, turns outwards round that body, and is continued to the upper part. The interval between this lamina and the corpus striatum forms the lateral ventricle. There is no trace of the corpus callosum, but there is evidently an anterior commissure, which expands in the corpora striata. In all birds of prey, two medullary bands arise in front of the commissure of the optic nerves, and having reached the front of the hemispheres, are expanded to form the olfactory lobes. In the other tribes, as in the gallinaceaj, there are no olfactory lobes, but certain small cords, which are merely the tapered extremities of the hemispheres. In Reptiles. The hemispheres are larger in the chelonians (tortoise) than in birds, though they are very similar in many respects: as in birds, there are no olfactory lobes, but merely two bands. In the saurians (crocodile, lizard), the olfactory lobe is continued into the tapering point of the cerebral lobe by a very long pedicle. The batrachians and ophidians have olfactory lobes in front of the hemispheres, from which they are separated by a circular constriction. In Fishes. Like reptiles, fishes have sometimes a single pair, sometimes two pairs of lobes in front of the optic lobes. When there is only one pair, it must not be concluded that they represent the cerebral hemispheres ; if that pair is continuous with the olfactory nerves, they constitute the olfactory lobes. Whenever there is a pair of lobes between the olfactory and the optic lobes, such pair belongs to the hemispheres. The olfactory lob~es and the cerebral hemispheres are so independent of each other, that they are often inversely proportioned in regard to size, so that the cerebral hemispheres are larger La man than in any of the lower animals, whilst the olfactory lobes are smaller. On the other hand, the olfactory lobes are the most highly developed in the ray: they are united together, are hollowed in the centre, grooved on the surface, according to the observation of Vicq d'Azyr, and present some traces of convolutions. Now, in the ray, there are no cerebral hemispheres, at least unless we agree with Tiedemann in regarding the olfactory lobes as analogous to the corpora striata. In some fishes the olfactory lobe is supported by a pedicle of variable lengths. As to the cerebral hemisphere, it is a mere tubercle, which appears to represent the optic thalamus. , ., , ^ . . ... ^„ The corpus callosum, the fornix, and the septum lucidum, do not exist either in birds, reptiles, or fishes. . , , oro nf The corpora albicantia, which are wantmg m birds and reptiles, are ot enormous size in fishes, and constitute a true lobe according to Vicq d Azyr ""^T^lSphalon of fishes presents five pair of lobes, which are, proceeding from behind forwards, 1. the lobes of the Pne^'^og^t"^^^^^^'"j^, 1°^' meduUa oblongata; 2. the cerebeUum; 3. the optic lobes; 4. the cerebral hemispheres; 5. the olfactory lobes. fnrmpd re- If we now generalise, with M. de BlainviUe, the notions we have formed re