ARTERIES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. 73t ferior thyroid artery, to the thyroid gland, the larynx, the trachea, the oesophagus, and sometimes the bronchi; the internal mammary and thoracic arteries to the corresponding mamma; and the same arteries, together with the superior intercostal, to the parietes of the thorax and abdomen ; the ascending cervical to the prsBvertebral muscles and the spine; and, lastly, the deep cervical, sub- scapular, and posterior scapular arteries to the superficial and deep muscles of the back of the neck. Setting aside those branches which do not belong to the upper extremity pro- perly so called, we find that, during its course along the limb, the artery always occupies the aspect of flexion, which is at the same time the position where it can be best protected ; and that, for this purpose, it is directed from the axilla to the bend of the elbow : we find, also, that it gives off a great number of anastomotic branches around the articulations, and thus establishes a collateral circulation, through which the blood can pass when the principal artery is obliterated. This anastomosis, and consequently the collateral circulation is effected by the cutaneous, muscular, and periosteal branches, and even by those distributed to the nerves. Thus, along the clavicle, we find the acromio-tho- racic in front, and the supra-scapular or transversus humeri behind; around the scapula there are the supra-scapular on the upper border, the posterior scapular on the vertebral border, and the subscapular on the axillary border; so that that bone is completely surrounded by an anastomotic triangle. Around the elbow joint are the external and internal collateral branches of the brachial artery, and the radial, ulnar, and interosseous recurrents- Around the wrist we find the anterior and posterior carpal arteries, and also anastomotic arches around the metacarpo-phalangal and phalangal ar- ticulations. On comparing the size and number of the arteries of the arm and fore-arm with the size and number of the arteries of the hand, it will be seen that the latter has greatly the advantage : indeed, in this part of the body, there is an unusual distribution of the arterial system into a deep and a superficial set of vessels, precisely as is the case with the veins. Why is this ? Is it not ex- tremely probable, that, as the deep veins are intended to supply the place of the superficial, when the circulation in the latter is for a time impeded, so in the hand the arteries are arranged in a similar manner, because the super- ficial circulation is liable to be interrupted by pressure from grasping hard bodies firmly in the hand for a longer or shorter period ? and is it not for the same reason, that the superficial system derived from the ulnar artery has so many communications with the deep system given off from the radial ? It is worthy of remark that the radial, which is the superficial artery of the fore-arm, becomes deep-seated in the hand; and that the ulnar, which is deep- seated in the fore-arm, becomes superficial in the hand. The great quantity of blood circulated through the hand is connected with the active use of that part, in the almost constant exercise of the sense of touch, and in prehension.