VERTICAL SECTION OF THE BRAIN. lOOX The optic thalamus is now seen to be smooth and free on its inner surface, where it forms the lateral wall (/) of the third ventricle ; it is convex and free above, where it forms part of the floor of the lateral ventricle, and it is also free below where it presents to our notice the corpora geniculata. Ueliind, it is continuous with the tubercula quadrigemina, and in front with the corpus striatum • on the outer side it is blended with the corresponding cerebral hemisphe're, and below it is deeply notched for the reception of the correspond- ing cerebral peduncle. \ _ , , -J C»l The corpus striatum forma- a concentric curve along the outer side ot the optic thalamus; it commences in front by a large pyriform extremity, di- minishes in size as it proceeds backTvards, and terminates in a very narrow grey band which turns round the optic thalamus as far as the termination of the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle, i. e. as far as the large end of the cornu ammonis. The lateral ventricle forms a circular or elliptical trench around this central nucleus formed by the thalamus opticus and corpus striatum (see Jig. 278.)- It commences in the substance of the anterior lobe of the cerebrum (anterior or frontal cornu), mounts up upon the corpus striatum, passes horizontally back- wards, and becoming widened divides into two prolongations, one horizontal (digital cavity, occipital or posterior cornu), which dips into the substance of the posterior lobe and terminates near the surface of the brain; the other reflected, which runs from behind forwards, and terminates behind the fissure of Sylvius, so that the lateral ventricle would describe an almost complete ellipse if it were not for the layer of cerebral substance which forms the bottom of the fissure of Sylvius, and which separates the commencement (/) from the termination (h) of the ventricle. Upon the longitudinal section is also seen the regular curve of the corpus callosum (e d f,fig. 282.), which runs around the central nucleus. The un- equal thickness of the different parts of the corpus callosum, its reflection in front so as to embrace the anterior extremity of the corpus striatum, its pos- terior enlarged extremity or protuberance, and its continuity with the fornix, are shown: and further it is seen that the space between the corpus callosum and the central nucleus of the brain constitutes the upper part of the lateral ventricle, and that the interval between the cornu ammonis and the nucleus constitutes its reflected portion. In this section we also notice the septum lucidum (t), the fornix (k), the mammillary tubercle (2), the tuber cinereum, the grey commissure (b) and grey mass of the third ventricle, the infundibulum (i), the optic nerve (2), the section of the anterior commissure (c), also that of the posterior commissure (x), and the peduncle (s) of the pineal gland (p). The longitudinal section also shows that the third ventricle is formed by the juxtaposition of the two central nuclei of the cerebral hemispheres; that these hemispheres are only connected to each other by the corpus callosum and the commissures, and therefore that it is by studying these parts that the system of communicating fibres between the two hemispheres is displayed. It is moreover seen that each hemisphere may be regarded as composed of a white and grey covering which surrounds a central nucleus. And it is be- tween the general central nucleus and the hemispheres, or rather between the fornix and its prolongations on the one hand and the optic thalami on the other (as at s, fig. 281., for example), that the ventricles would communicate with the exterior if the ventricular membrane were not firmly attached to the choroid plexus : it is also in the same situation that the external pia mater passes into the internal. Tlie central nucleus. A very curious preparation may be very easilv made upon this vertical median section, to show the central nucleus separated from the other parts. If the handle of a scalpel be introduced between the corpus striatum and the reflected portion of the corpus callosum, it will be found that the ventricular membrane is the only means of connexion between them, and