EXTERNAL CONFORMATION OF THE CEREBELLUM. 955 mm nuova universale. Torino, 1780). Vicq d'Azyr and Chaussier have described its external conformation with extraordinary accuracy; and Reil, Gall, and Rolando, have more particularly investigated its structure. The External Characters and Conformation of the Cerebellum. Situation The cerebellum is enclosed between the inferior occipital fossae and the process of the dura mater, called the tentorium cerebelli. It is Dlaced ("see fid 282.) at the top of and behind the spinal cord, and the isthmus of the encephalon. It is covered by the cerebrum in the human subject only, whence the name cerebrum inferius. It is posterior to the brain in the lower animals, and is therefore caUedcere6r«mpos<en«*. The dura mater, the arachnoid, and the pia mater, form a three-fold in- vestment around it, the arrangement of which has been already described. Size and weight. The cerebellum is larger in man than in any other species. It has been stated by Cuvier, that its size in the human subject is so exactly proportioned to that of the brain, that correct tables may be formed of their relative weights; but it appears to me that facts are opposed to this view. The mean weight of the cerebellum, including the pons Varolii and medulla oblongata, is from four to five ounces ; the proportion between the cerebrjim and cerebellum may be estimated approximately to be as 7 to 1.* According to Gall and Cuvier, the cerebellum of the female is proportion- ally larger than that of the male. Gall believes that its size is in a direct ratio with the energy of the generative function; and that this is indicated ex- ternally by the relative size of the inferior occipital protuberances, f The cerebellum is proportionally much smaller in the infant than in the adult; the relation between the cerebrum and cerebellum in the infant is as 20 to 1. Density. The consistence of the cerebellum has been much studied by anatomists, who are far from being agreed upon this subject. The great difficulty depends upon the want of accurate means of estimating its con- ■ sistence. In fact, it may be readily conceived, that the conversion of its sub- stance into a pulp by letting weights fall upon it from a determinate height, is at once a most inconclusive and almost inapplicable method of ascertaining the point. Another source of difficulty consists in the fact, that the cerebellum is not homogeneous ; so that results obtained in reference to the grey matter, do not apply to the white substance. Out of fifty cerebella which Malacarne compared with the corresponding brains, twenty-three were softer than the brains in both the medullary and cortical substances ; in thirteen the cortical substance was equally firm, but the medullary substance more consistent and elastic than that of the brain; ten were more dense in texture, and the re- maining five were much harder than the corresponding brains. In some ce- rebella, one of the hemispheres was much more firm than the other. The results of my observations are, that the medullary centre of the cere- bellum is of a firmer consistence than that of the cerebrum; that the grey substance of the cerebellum is softer than that of the cerebrum; and that the grey substance of the former becomes softened in the dead body with such * Chaussier says, " In a considerable number of comparative experiments we sometimes found that the adult cerebellum was ^th or jth, and at other times, but rarely, -j'^th or -^th the weight of the cerebrum. In the infant, at birth, we found it to be ^Jjth, ^ijth, ^!jth, ^tjst, ^th, and, in one case, even j'jd the total weight of the brain." {De I'Enciplialc, p. 77.) t In my opinion this idea can only be regarded as an ingenious hypothesis. The aptitude for the generative act is not dependent upon the cerebellum, for all invertebrate animals are destitute of this organ ; and in certain vertebrata, where the generative orgasm is quite remark- able, the cerebellum is extremely small. Some observations, however, are quoted which an pear to show that diminution of the occipital protuberance has followed extirpation of the corresponding testicle; but it must first be proved that these observations are correct - for example, that the inequality of the occipital protuberances did not exist previously to the'cas-