751 THE ANTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY. tarsus (J>,fiy- 216.)i below which the vessel is named the dorsal artery of the foot (/). Immediately after its origin, it passes horizontally forwards, perforates Fig. 21G. the upper part of the interosseous ligament, is reflected over it, and descends vertically in front of it; having reached the lower fourth of the leg, it is directed somewhat obliquely inwards, following the direction of the external surface of the tibia, and then passes under the annular ligament, at the lower border of which, as stated, it terminates. A line stretched from that process of the tibia, which has been described as the tubercle of the tibialis anticus (Oste- ology, p. 128.), to the middle of the ti^io-tarsal articulation, will indicate its direction and course. Relations. The anterior tibial artery is situated very deeply, and yet it can be exposed at any point; it is iu re- lation, behind, with the interosseous ligament in its three upper fourths, and with the tibia in its lower fourth; it lies in contact with the interosseous ligament, and is retained in its place by a layer of fibrous tissue, so that, after ampu- tation of the leg, it retracts between these two fibrous layers, and is sometimes seized and tied with difficulty. In front, it is covered successively by the tibialis anticus, the extensor longus digitorum, and the extensor proprius poUicis, the tendon of which crosses over it; it is placed exactly along the cellular interval between the tibialis an- ticus and the extensor muscles; and the incision should therefore be made along the line coiTesponding to that in- terval, in order to expose the artery when it is to be tied ; lower down it is only separated from the skin by the fascia of the leg and the projecting tendon of the extensor pro- prius poUicis, and hence it may be compressed in this situ- ation. On the inner side, it is in relation with the tibialis an- ticus, then -with the tibia, and, lastly, with the tendon of the extensor pollicis, being lodged in the same sheath. On its outer side, it has the extensor longus digitorum, then the extensor pollicis, both of which afterwards cross over it; and, lastly, it has only the fascia of the leg: the anterior tibial nerve runs along the outer side of the artery iu its whole extent. Its collateral branches are very small and numerous, and are distributed to the muscles and the skin. Among them, the anterior tibial recurrent, and the external and internal malleolar require special notice. The anterior tibial recurrent artery {c,fig. 216.") is sometimes of considerable size; It arises from the tibial, after that vessel is disengaged from the inter- osseous ligament, passes obliquely upwards and inwards between the tibialis anticus and the external tuberosity of the tibia, with which it is in contact, and expands into diverging, periosteal, and articular branches, some of which ascend and anastomose with the external inferior articular of the knee, whilst others pass transversely, and anastomose with the internal inferior articular. I have seen the anterior tibial recurrent, of large size, run transversely below the patella, and terminate upon the internal tuberosity of the tibia. Lhe malleolar, which would be more correctly named articular, arteries are divided into the internal and external. The internal malleolar or articular artery (d) arises opposite the dorsal an- nular ligament of the tarsus, passes transversely inwards under the tendon of the tibialis anticus and divides into two branches—a deep, or articular, which dips perpendicularly mto the ankle joint, and is distributed to that articulation voi..*n ' °' n^alleolar, properly so called, which passes above the mal-