NEUROLOGY. 940 Internal Structure of the Medulla Oblongata. The internal structure of the medulla oblongata should be examined by means of sections ; by the ordinary method of dissection ; by separating its elements by means of a jet of water; and by dissecting it, after it has been hardened in alcohol, or boiled in oil. Sections. Horizontal sections. Following the example of Rolando, we shall examine four sections of the medulla oblongata. The first should be made immediately below the decussation of the py- ramids ; the second, opposite the middle of the decussation ; the third, through the middle of the olivary bodies ; and the fourth, immediately below the pons. The Jirst section presents exactly the same appearances as a section of the spinal cord. The second presents a very different arrangement: the decussating bundles of the pyramids are of very considerable size, and occupy the anterior two thirds of the substance of the medulla: their section represents a triangle having its base turned forwards, and its truncated apex backwards. The grey matter is not circumscribed, as in the first section, but appears to penetrate irregularly into the white substance of which the remaining part of the me- dulla consists. The white substance itself has not the pure whiteness of me- dullary substance; nor does the grey matter resemble that of the rest of the spinal cord, but it is of a yellowish grey colour, and is much denser. The third section through the middle of the olivary bodies (fig. 269. C) pre- sents, besides the triangular section of the pyramidal bodies (6), the serrated section of the corpus dentatum (c') of the olivary bodies (c) ; it enables us to form an accurate idea of the shape and size of these bodies, which extend to each side of the median line; it shows that they are directed obliquely in- wards and backwards, and that they consist of successive layers, viz. of an external white layer, of an interrupted yellowish layer, and of a second white layer, which lines the inner surface of the yellowish one. It is seen, that the corpora dentata of the olivary bodies are interrupted, or rather open on the inner side towards the median line, so as to admit the white fibres with which their interior is filled. The waving grey line seen on these sections depends upon the yellow layer being frequently folded inwards and outwards upon itself; and from this appearance the terms corpus dentatum, or corps festonne, have been applied to the grey substance of the olivary bodies. The remaining part (d) of the medulla oblongata consists of a substance which is of the co- lour of coffee mixed with milk, and which offers more resistance to the knife than other parts of the medulla, and consists neither wholly of white matter nor wholly of grey, but of a mixture of both. The fourth section, made immediately below the pons {fig. 269. B), pre- sents a triangular surface on which we remark, at each of the posterior angles, a thick white bundle, almost as large as the posterior pyramidal body, and which will be hereafter shown to constitute one of the roots of the fifth nerve : these bundles are also seen upon the third section made through the olivary bodies, but they are much smaller than in this section. The section of the two anterior pyramids (b) is circular at this point. The centre of this section of the medulla consists entirely of a greyish white, or coffee coloured sub- stance {d c'), covered by a white layer. The greyish white substance belongs specially to the medulla oblongata; the surrounding white layer is the con- tinuation of the columns of the spinal cord.* surrounds the upper part of the anterior pyramids, and which in other respects has a similar arrangement to the arched fibres generally ? , . j . j f„, ti„, • The medulla oblongata of a child, seven or eight years old, is much better adapted tor tiic cxaminatioD of these sections, than that of an adult or old subject, because tlie two substances