THE RIGHT AND LEFT SUBCLAVIAN ARTERIES. 707 F 3 length of the innominate artery; and we should, moreover, bear in mind the slight difference in the height between the origin of the innominate and the left subclavian. The difference in the size of the two subclavian arteries re- quires no special notice. ~ , , Differences in direction. The right subclavian passes at first obliquely out- wards and a little upwards, and then bends over the apex of the lung, de- scribing a curve with the concavity looking downwards. The left subclavian passes vertically -upwards before curving over the apex of the lung, opposite which it changes its direction abruptly, and becomes horizontal. Differences in relations. In describing these we shall divide the subclavian artery into three portions : the first, extending from the origin of the artery to the scaleni muscles ; the second, situated between the scaleni; and the third, extending from the scaleni to the clavicle. The relations of the right and left subclavians differ from each other only in the first of these portions. The first portion (1, fig. 204.) of the right subclavian is ia relation in front with the inner end of the clavicle, the sterno-clavicular articulation, the platysma, and the clavicular attachment of the sterno-mastoid muscle, with the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, with the termination of the internal jugular and vertebral veins in the subclavian vein, and with the right pneumogastrie and phrenic nerves; behind, with the recurrent laryngeal nerve and the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra; on the outer side, with the mediastinal pleura, which separates it from the lung. On the inner side, it is separated from the common carotid by a triangular interval. * It is surrounded by loose cellular tissue, a great number of lymph- atic glands, and nervous loops formed by the great sympathetic. The first portion of the left subclavian is in relation with the same parts, though to a somewhat different extent: thus, its relations with the left me- diastinal pleura and lung are much more extensive. The subclavian vein crosses it at right angles, instead of being parallel to it; but the left pneumo- gastrie and phrenic nerves run parallel to instead of crossing it. It is parallel to the left common carotid, instead of forming an angle with it; and instead of being near the clavicle, the left subclavian is close to the vertebral column, and rests on the longus colli, the inferior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic nerve, and the thoracic duct, which is there to its inner side. The second portion of both the right and left subclavian arteries, situated between the scaleni, is in close relation below with the middle of the upper surface of the first rib, on which there is a corresponding depression behind the tubercle for the attachment of the anterior scalenus; above, with the two scaleni, which are in contact with each other above the vessel; behind, with the brachial plexus ; in front, with the scalenus anticus, which separates the subclavian artery from the subclavian vein. This separation of the artery from the vein is one of the most important points in its history, f The third portion of the subclavian, or that extending from the scaleni to the clavicle, corresponds to a triangular space, bounded in front by the sterno-mastoid and anterior scalenus, above by the omo-hyoid, and below by the clavicle: this space is named the lower or clavicular portion of the posterior triangle of the neck, which is bounded in front by the sterno-mastoid, behind by the trapezius, below by the clavicle. In front of, but somewhat lower than, the artery is the clavicle, that bone being separated from the vessel by the subclavian vein, which is here below and in contact with the artery, and by the subclavius muscle ; behind and to the outside of the artery IS the brachial plexus of nerves, which surrounds the vessel in the axilla; it is covered by the deep cervical fascia, the platysma, the superficial fascia, and rK.i'-.n ''^f? °'"'"'\^d by Professor R. Quain (loc. cit.). that the origin of the right sub- t:rf^sd,:';^irt?^gT?!:^o ^eS"]"''^'^'^^ ''•^ p'"'^^- .1 llJ'l^In'h"'' If in a few cases, the artery perforating the anterior scalenus • and wi?h the vein ] ''^ """""'^ ^""^ tJ that musde, and therefore in contact