THE SUPERIOR CERVICAL GANGLION. 1149 Some communicating filaments to the third nerve or external motor oculi before the division of that nerve. These filaments pass above the sixth nerve, to which they appear to be applied* . A filament of communication with the ophthalmic ganglion. Ihis arises trom the anterior part of the cavernous plexus, enters the orbit between the third nerve and the ophthalmic division of the fifth, and unites sometimes with the long root of the ophthalmic ganglion, which we have stated to be derived from the nasal branch of the ophthalmic, and sometimes with the ophthalmic ganglion itself. -n-v This root had been described and figured by Lecat, before Bock, Ribes, and Arnold recalled the attention of anatomists to it. It follows from the arrangement just described, that the ophthalmic ganglion has three roots, two cerebro-spinal and one ganglionic. Communicating filaments to the fifth nerve : some of these pass to the Gas- serian ganglion, and others to the ophthalmic division of the fifth, f The filaments which accompany the internal carotid artery and its branches : these are extremely delicate, but they are beautifully distinct in some subjects. They may be followed even upon the branches of the internal carotid. Anatomists admit the existence of a plexus for the ophthalmic artery, and for each of its subdivisions. It is even supposed that there is one for the arteria centralis retinse. % Several authors have described a certain number of filaments proceeding from the cavernous plexus to the pituitary body (filets sus-sphenoidaux, Chaussier). I have never been fortunate enough to discover them, nor yet the ganglion (the ganglion of Ribes) which is said to exist upon the anterior communicating artery of the brain, and which is found at the point of junction of the right and left trunks of the sympathetic. It follows from what has been stated, that the superior cervical ganglion, by means of its upper or carotid branch, communicates with most of the nerves of the anterior cranial pair; namely, with the fifth nerve, by means of the Gasserian ganglion, of the ophthalmic division of the fifth, and of the oph- thalmic ganglion, either directly or indirectly; also by means of the superior maxillary division of this nerve, through the intervention of the spheno- palatme ganglion ; secondly, with the third nerve ; and lastly with the sixth. The Anterior Branches from the Superior Cervical Ganglion. The anterior branches of the superior cervical ganglion establish a commu- nication with the different nerves of the posterior cranial pair, excepting the spinal accessory nerve, which does not appear to have any direct communi- cation with it. The glosso-pharyngeal and pneumogastric nerves communicate with the superior cervical ganglion at two difi'erent points, viz. at their ganglia, and by their branches. The communication of the superior cervical ganglion with the ganglia of the glosso-pharyngeal and pneumogastric nerves has been pointed out by Arnold; it is difficult to demonstrate it through the dense tissue which surrounds these ganglia. On the contrary, it is extremely easy to demonstrate the communications of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve and the plexiform cord of 'the pneumogastric with the superior cervical gangUon. I have already said (see Pneumo- gastric Nerve) that in one case I found the pneumogastric so closely applied to the whole length of the superior cervical ganglion, that it was im- • I have never seen the communication between the sunerlor rprviral o-anolinn n,„ r - , nerve noticed by some anatomists. superior cervical ganglion and the facial ■f- I mav here again notice tliat in two subjects I havn kppti t fu/io- frn>Yi *i,„ - i . . ganglion join the communicating branches between the s xth ucJve and t^e svJ,?. H t M. Kibes. Memolrcs de la Societe M^dicaird'Emulation, t. Wi. sympathetic.