990 NEUROLOGY. venffiGaleni and with the pineal gland (p,_^ 282 ") adhering very closely to that hody, and forminK a nearly complete investment for it, so that they are almost always removed together. Bichat de- scribed his so-called arachnoid canal as passing beneath the velum interpositum. Upon the lower surface of the velum, which can only be properly examined from below, are found two small trains of red granulations, precisely similar to the choroid plexuses of the lateral ventricles, with which they are continuous in front: they may be called the choroid plexuses of the third ventricle. The lateral borders of the velum are continuous with the upper part of the choroid plexuses ( p p, figs. 278, 279.) of the lateral ventricles. The anterior extremity, or apex of the velum, is bifid; each branch of the bi^^^rcation passes from the third into the corresponding lateral ventricle (behind k,fig. 282., opposite 9 9, fig. 278.), behind the anterior pillar of the fornix, and constitutes the anterior extremity of the choroid plexus. .. .The velum interpositum is formed by the pia mater, supported by a toler- ably strong fibrous layer. When the fornix and the velum (as in fig. 280.) are removed, we arrive at a cavity, called the middle or third ventricle. The Middle or Third Ventricle. Dissection. In order to expose the third ventricle from the base of the brain, the right peduncle of the cerebrum and the right corpus albicans should be separated from those of the left side by a longitudinal section in the median line. There is another section, which I recommend as exceedingly well adapted to exhibit all the parts contained in the third ventricle ; it is made from before backwards, and on either the right or left side of the median line, so as to leave both of the lateral walls of the third ventricle uninjured. The third ventricle (c to x, figs. 280. 282.) is situated in the median line, near the base of the brain, between the optic thalami (I I, fig. 280.) and in front of the tubercula quadrigemina (fg): it appears like a very narrow cavity, oblong from before backwards, and of greater extent below than above ; it is not so much a cavity as a fissure between the two optic thalami. Vesalius compared this ventricle to a valley, the hills on either side of which were very closely ap- proximated to each other, and united by a sort of bridge, represented by the commissura moUis (b). ' The superior orifice of the third ventricle is surrounded by a white rim or border (s), which forms, behind and on either side, the peduncles of the pineal gland. The lateral walls {l,fig. 282.) are plane, smooth, and of a grey colour; they are formed by two very distinct parts, viz. above and behind by the internal surface of the optic thalamus, and below and in front by the internal surface of a grey mass, which appears to me to deserve a particular description imder the name of the grey mass of the third ventricle. That part of the internal wall of the ventricle which is formed by the optic thalamus is marked off by a horizontal groove from the part formed by this grey mass. The internal surface of this grey mass is smooth and lined by the membrane of the ventricle. The external surface is continuous with the rest of the brain ; below, it forms the tuber cinereum, or base of the infundibulum, passes around the corpora albicantia, the anterior pillars of the fornix and their roots, is ,