NEUROLOGY. 1008 medulla are prolonged above the pons into the cerebral peduncles, of which they form the upper portion (x,fg. 283.), and become continuous, without any line of demarcation, with the optic thalamus. Do these fasciculi decussate ? They rema,in distinct until they reach opposite the pons, behind the tubercula quadrigemina, where they unite ; they appear to me to decussate, but not so evidently as the anterior pyramids, and I cannot venture to state this posi- tively, 3. Fasciculi of white fibres radiate in all directions (^^ j/*, 283.) from every part of the surface of the optic thalamus (g g), excepting its inner side, which is free, and corresponds to the third ventricle; the anterior of these fibres pass directly forwards, the middle fibres outwards, and the posterior fibres backwards, forming the radiating crown of Reil (/e, fig. 284.). As these radiating fibres emerge from the optic thalamus, they are bound down, as it were, by certain white curved fibres which constitute the taenia semicircularis. 4. All the white fasciculi of the corpora striata, excepting those which are continuous with the anterior pyramids, proceed from the optic thalami. Some of them appear to me to terminate in the corpora striata in the form of ex- tremely delicate filaments, but the greater number pass through the corpora striata without either increase or diminution, and then pass into the hemi- spheres. The corpora striata of Willis are, therefore, nothing more than grey pulpy masses, which are traversed both by the white fibres radiating from the circumference of the optic thalami and by those which are derived from the anterior pyramids. The grey matter is not arranged in alternate linear strise with the white substance. So far from thinking with Reil, Gall, and Tiede- mann, that the fibres which emerge from the corpora striata are much more numerous than those which enter it, I have been led to a precisely opposite conclusion; namely, that a certain number of fibres, proceeding from the optic thalami, terminate in the interior of the corpora striata, the grey matter of which, in reference to these fibres, represents the grey substance in the con- volutions. 5. From the anatomical fact that a certain number of white fibres terminate in the corpora striata, and also from the size of those bodies being in some animals inversely proportioned to that of the hemispheres, it appears to me to follow that the corpora striata may be regarded as internal convolutions, in which a certain number of medullary fibres terminate.* 6. It is extremely easy, by means of a stream of water, to separate, and as it were enucleate, the corpus striatum from the sort of shell formed for it by the cerebrum opposite the fissure of Sylvius. The corpus striatum is only • In several cases of chronic hydrocephalus, in which the hemispheres were reduced to .iveir thin lamina, I have found the optic thalami atrophied and the corpora striata of enormous size.