GENERAL VIEW OF THE SYMPATHETIC SYSTEM. 1169 M M 2 anastomose above, either upon the pituitary body, or upon the anterior communicating artery of the brain ; the true anastomoses of the two halves of the sympathetic system are in the central and median plexuses. If after having acquired this general idea of the trunks of the sympathetic, its neurilemma be removed by continued maceration in water, the connexions of the branches given from the spinal nerves to the gangUa, with the branches given from the ganglia to the viscera, may then be ascertained: it then becomes evident, that the greater number of the branches from the spinal nerves do not penetrate to the centre of the ganglia, but expand as it were upon their surface, and divide into two sets of filaments; of these, some are applied to the surface of a ganglion, and proceed directly to form the internal or visceral branches*; whilst the others assist in forming the cords of communication between one ganglion and another, and divide into ascending and descending filaments, of which the latter are the more numerous. They all run along the outer side of the cords of communication, and afterwards become visceral branches themselves; it is doubtful whether any filament arises in the interior of a ganglion; the continuity of them all can be traced completely through these bodies. It follows, therefore, that it is anatomically shown that the visceral nerves given off from the sympathetic are connected or belong to a very great num- ber of spinal nerves at once, and always to spinal nerves much higher than that portion of the sympathetic from which the visceral branches are imme- diately given off; and again, that the visceral or splanchnic nerves, the actual origins of which we have seen to be so complicated and so remote from their apparent origins, always run a very long course before reaching their destina- tion. Thus, the splanchnic nerves of the thorax or the cardiac nerves are derived from the cervical ganglia; the splanchnic nerves of the abdomen are given off, for the most part, by the thoracic ganglia; and most of the splanchnic nerves of the pelvis proceed from the lumbar ganglia. Neverthe- less, the proper ganglia of each splanchnic cavity complete the visceral nerves belonging to that cavity. Thus the first thoracic ganglion assists in the form- ation of the cardiac nerves; the superior lumbar ganglia in that of the visceral nerves of the abdomen; and the sacral ganglia in that of the pelvic nerves. The visceral nerves sometimes pass directly to the viscera from the ganglia of the sympathetic, and sometimes indirectly, after being mingled and com- bined in plexuses. There is no relation between the branches which enter and those which pass out of the several visceral plexuses, so that the branches which proceed from the ganglia and trunk of the sympathetic to those plexuses must be regarded, not as branches of formation but as branches of communication. The visceral plexuses are also formed in a very peculiar manner, not only by interlaced nerves, but by nerves and ganglia, and these nerves themselves present a ganglionic structure altogether different from the fasciculated and plexLform structure of other nerves. There are four great visceral plexuses; the pharyngeal plexus, the cardiac plexus, the solar plexus, and the hypogastric plexus; the largest of all these is the solar plexus, which, both in an anatomical and in a physiological point of view, deserves the title of the abdominal brain, which was given to it by Wrisberg. These four great plexuses may also be very properly regarded as nervous_ centres to which all the physiological and pathological phenomena of the nutritive system are singly or collectively, referred. These visceral plexuses differ as much from the ganglionic chain formed by the two trunks of the sympathetic as these trunks differ from the spinal cord itself: in these plexuses a sort of fusion is effected between the cerebro- spinal and the sympathetic systems, and also between the trunks of the sym- pathetic belonging to the two sides of the body. » Some filaments from the spin.il nerves me seen to cross at right aneles over the anterior surface of the ganglia, and tlicii to join the visceral nerves directly. anterior