1052 NEUROLOGY. internal terminal division of the musculo-cutaneous nerve passes in front of the tendons of the extensor brevis poUicis and abductor longus poUieis, in front of and more superficially than the corresponding branch of the radial nerve, and then divides into several twigs, which are intended for the skin of the thenar eminence. One of these branches, which runs along the outer side of that eminence, may be traced into the skin upon the first phalanx of the thumb. Summary. The musculo-cutaneous nerve, then, supplies :—Certain muscular branches, which belong exclusively to the coraco-brachialis, the biceps, and the brachialis anticus : the section of this nerve would, therefore, destroy the power of flexing the fore-arm. Certain cutaneous branches to the skin on the outer side of the fore-arm and hand; and, lastly, some articular branches to the elbow and to the wrist. The Median Nerve. The median nerve {c,fig. 286.), one of the terminal branches of the brachial plexus, arises from the plexus by two very distinct roots between the musculo- cutaneous, (6) on the outer side, and the ulnar nerve (d) on the inner.* The internal root arises from a nervous cord which is common to it, to the ulnar, and to the internal cutaneous (g). The external root arises from a cord common to it, and to the musculo-cutaneous. The axillary artery passes be- tween these two roots. The trunk, resulting from the union of these two roots, is situated on the inner side of the axillary artery ; it is at first grooved to receive the inner half of the artery, but it soon forms a rounded cord, proceeds vertically downwards, ic,Jig. 288.) gains the middle and fore part of the elbow joint, dips between the muscles on the anterior region of the fore-arm (d), and passes behind the annular ligament to enter the palm of the hand (r), where it terminates by dividing into six branches. We shall examine it in the arm, the fore-arm, and the hand. In the Arm. The median nerve (c), which is straight and vertical, and the satellite nerve of the brachial artery, passes somewhat obliquely downwards, forwards, and outwards, to the middle and fore part of the elbow-joint. Relations. On the inner side, it is siib-aponeurotlc, so that when the arm is held away from the side, and the fore-arm is extended upon the arm, it projects below the skin like a tense cord, which is very distinctly seen in emaciated subjects. . 1 • On the outside, it corresponds at first to the brachialis anticus, and is then received in the sort of groove formed between the inner border of the biceps and the brachialis anticus. In front, it is covered by the inner border of the biceps, excepting in emaciated subjects. -u- v Behind, it is in relation with the ulnar nerve (/), and then with the brachialis ''°its"'re/afwns with the brachial artery are of the greatest importance in reference to the application of a ligature to that vessel. The nerve is at first situated to the outer or radial side of the axillary artery but f oon v^^'^^ 'l front of the vessel, and then it crosses over slightly, so that at tlie ^e'l'i °f tj^/ elbow it is situated about two lines to the inner or ulnar side of the artery. median nprve.