994 NEUROLOGY. traversed by a great number of bloodvessels, having a very close fesemblance to the grey matter of the brain, but none whatever to glandular tissues. Concretions of the conarium. One of the most curious circumstances in regard to this body is the existence in it of certain hard concretions, which Ruysch and others regarded as smaU bones, an error which was successfully combatted by Soemmerring. The use of them is utterly unknown. Are these concretions constant ? The brothers Wenzel found them wanting in six brains out of one hundred. Soemmerring states that he found them in fifteen brains, among which were some of very young infants, and he adds that they exist in the foetus before the full period. Meckel says they do not appear until the sixth or seventh year, beyond which age he always found them. These concretions sometimes form a single mass (acervulos, Soemmerring) resembling a granular lump of salt; sometimes, and most commonly, there are a great number of them. They appear as aggregated granules, which the Wenzels believed to be connected by means of a proper membrane. Seat of the concretions. When the pineal body is hollow, they are found in its interior ; but when it is solid they are situated upon the surface of this body. I have found them several times upon its peduncles. They are of an opaline yeUow colour in old subjects, and are whitish in the young. According to Pfaff, they consist of phosphate of lime, cai'bonate of lime, and an animal matter. They were incorrectly regarded as morbid deposits by Morgagni, who sup- posed without proof that they might produce cerebral affections of greater or less severity. Function of the jnneal gland. The hypothesis of Descartes concerning the function of this body, which was so completely refuted by Steno, is a striking example of the abuse of an imperfect knowledge of anatomy ; according to Descartes the soul is seated in the pineal gland, and it directs all the move- ments of the body by means of the peduncles, which he regarded as the gubernacula or reins of the soul. M. Magendie thinks that this body performs certain functions having reference to the cerebro-spinal fluid : he has regarded it as a kind of plug, which would obstruct the orifice of communication between the third and fourth ventricles; but in the first place, it is completely fixed by the pia mater, and in the second case, even if it were free, it could not m any case close the orifice alluded to. Morbid conditions of this body will perhaps throw some light upon its functions, but they have not yet been sufficiently studied. The existence of a cavity within the pineal gland, added to the fact that it is sometimes the seat of dropsy, would seem to indicate that its functions are connected with secretion. The Lateral Ventricles. Dissection. The lateral ventricles are exposed by the same dissection as that which we have pointed out for the examination of the fornix and septum lucid um, that is to say, by removing the upper parts of the heniispheres and dividing the corpus caUosum on each side of the median line (as m Jig.^iH: on the left side) In order to trace the reflected portion or descending cornu it should be laid open, by cutting through its outer wall from behmd forwards There is also a great advantage in studying this part of the lateral ventricles from the base of the brain. . . The lateral ventricles {fx g h,fig. 278.) are two in number ; they are mucti larger than the other ventricles ; are placed symmetrically one on each side ot the median line ; they are separated from each other, but communicate through the medium of the third ventricle ; their upper part is nearer ^ the base ot tne brain than to its upper surface, and they approach stUl nearer to the base o) their reflected portion or descending cornu.