910 NEUROLOGY. protuberance. The dura mater should then be divided along the borders of this intermediate portion of bone, and the brain and cerebellum removed. If, however, it be intended to preserve the brain and cerebellum, after the entire skull-cap has been removed in the ordinary manner, the dura mater must be divided circularly, along the cut edge of the cranium, the anterior extremity of the falx cerebri must be divided -with the scissors, and the -whole fibrous cap turned backwards. Another mode, and one which I prefer, is to make an incision through the dura mater along each side of the superior longitudinal sinus, and then to divide the anterior extremity of the falx, and reflect that part backwards. Dissection of the dura mater in the vertebral canal. This part of the dura mater may be exposed, either by removing the arches of the vertebrae, or by taking away the bodies of these bones. The latter method is but seldom adopted. The arches of the ■vertebrae may be removed by means of a chisel and mallet, or still better by the rachitome. An instrument has lately been invented consisting of two parallel saws, slightly convex on their toothed edges, firmly connected together, but capable of being separated or approximated as may be desired. Preference is justly given to the rachitome over this complicated instrument. The important object in opening the spine is to make the section opposite the junction of the laminae with the transverse and articular processes. In order to display the continuity of the cranial and spinal portions of the dura mater, it is necessary to connect the sections already made in the head and spine, by removing with the saw the intervening portion of the occipital bone. A beautiful preparation of the dura mater may be made by removing the roof and sides of the skull, and the arches of all the vertebrfe; by then taking out the encephalon and spinal cord through incisions in the dura mater, which may be readily concealed; and by filling the cavity thus left with tallow, which is afterwards to be dissolved out by spirits of turpentine, or, what is easier to do, the cavity of the dura mater may be filled with fine sand. The dura mater (meninx crassa, Galen; le meninge Chauss.) is a fibrous membrane which covers and protects the cerebro-spinal axis, and the roots of all the nerves which arise from or terminate in that portion of the nervous system. It is the most external of the membranes of the brain and spinal cord, (meninx exterior, Soemmerring) ; it consists of a cranial and a spinal portion. The Cranial Portion of the Dura Mater. The cranial portion of the dura mater forms a fibrous sac, which lines the internal surface of the bones of the cranium, forming their internal periosteum, and at the same time serves as a covering for the encephalon, and separates its different parts by means of prolongations or incomplete septa. The dura mater in the skull presents for our consideration an external and an internal surface. External Surface of the Dura Mater. Its external surface is accurately moulded upon the internal surface of the bones of the cranium, to which it adheres by a multitude of small fibrous and vascular prolongations, which can be readily displayed by putting the mem- brane under water. These prolongations give the external surface of the dura mater a rough appearance, which contrasts strongly with the smooth aspect of its internal smface. The ramifications of the middle meningeal ar- teries and veins are seen on the external surface of the membrane, and pro- ject from it, as if they were only laid upon it.