890 NEUROLOGY. Its external orifice, which is vertically oblong, more or less widened out in different individuals, and covered with hairs in old age, occupies the anterior and inferior part of the concha behind the tragus, which serves as a lid for it. It is bounded behind by a sort of semilunar ridge, which projects more or less forwards, in different individuals, so as to contract its orifice to a greater or less extent. In front of the auditory meatus there is an excavation or fossa concealed by the tragus, and named the tragic fossa of the concha; it forms as it were the vestibule of the meatus. The internal orifice of the auditory meatus is circular: it is directed very obliquely downwards and inwards, and is closed by the membrana tympani. Structure. The auditory meatus consists of an osseous portion and of a cartilaginous and fibrous part. The osseojis portion has been already described with the temporal hone, as the external auditory meatus. It is wanting in the foetus, and in the new-bom infant, in which its place is supplied by the tympanic ring or circle. We have stated that, in the adult, this ring forms an osseous lamina distinct from the rest of the temporal bone, that it rests behind upon the mastoid and styloid processes, for the latter of which it forms the vaginal process, and that it is separated in front from the auricular portion of the glenoid cavity by the fissure of Glasserius; this lamina forms both the anterior and inferior walls of the auditory meatus and cavity of the tympanum. The cartilaginous and fibrous portion forms the outer half of the external auditory meatus, and may be separated from the cartilage of the auricle by a careful dissection. • If an incision be made over the semilunar ridge which constitutes the outer border of the orifice of the auditory meatus, it will be seen that this ridge is formed by the juxtaposition of two cartilaginous borders, one of which belongs to the concha, and the other to the auricle, and which are united by fibrous tissue. If the dissection be continued between the tragus and the corresponding part of the helix, the auricle may be separated from the auditory meatus, excepting below, where their continuity is established by means of a tongue or isthmus of cartilage. The tragus belongs essentially to the auditory meatus, the cartilage of that canal being merely a prolongation of the tragus folded upon itself (see 6,^sf. 2 53*.) so as to form the lower two thirds or three fourths of a cylinder. The inner end of this imperfect cylinder is attached to the rough external rim of the osseous portion of the meatus, by means of a fibrous tissue, which ex- tends further above and behind than below and in front, and which gives the cartilage a great degree of mobility ; there is a thick prolongation or process at the lower and anterior part of the inner end of the cartilage of the meatus. The fibrous portion of the auditory meatus forms the upper third or fourth of that canal, and also fiUs up the large notch in the inner end of the cartaliginous portion. . ... Near the tragus there are two or three fissures or divisions in this cartilage, named th.e fissures of Santorini, which give it some resemblance to the rings of the trachea : these fissures are at right angles to the length of the canal, and are filled up with a fibrous tissue, which some anatomists have conceived to be mixed with muscular fibres, or to consist entirely of muscular fibres intended to move the small and partially separated portions of the cartUage. It is evident that the mode in which the partly cartilaginous and partly fibrous portion is united with the osseous portion of the canal, and also the existence of the ■ fissures just described, have reference to the mobility of the entire canal. The internal surface of the auditory meatus is lined by a prolongation ot the skin which is remarkable for its extreme thinness. It becomes thmner and thinner in advancing from the orifice to the bottom of the meatus; and the fineness and extreme delicacy of that portion of the skm, which corresponds to the osseous part of the meatus, deserves ^pecia^ attention The skin ot ne meatus is also characterised by being covered m all parts ^^th fine downy hm«. a fact which proves ihat it is of a cutaneous structure, and not a mucous mem