NEUROLOGY. The pneumogastric assists in the formation of three of these plexuses • namely, the pharyngeal, the cardiac, and the solar plexus. In man there is a tendency to fusion of the pneumogastric with the sympathetic, and in the lower animals this fusion is still more complete; it is in those animals in which the sympathetic is the least developed that the par vagum acquires its greatest developement, and supplies the place of the former in reference to the intestinal canal. The glosso-pharyngeal nerve also assists in the formation of the pharyngeal plexus, and the sacral nerves contribute to that of the hypogastric plexus. The visceral plexuses differ essentially from those formed by the cerebro- spinal nerves. In the latter, the branches which emerge from the plexus are precisely the same branches that entered it, only combined in a different manner. However inextricable they may be, the plexuses of the spinal nerves are merely points in which a number of afferent branches converge and com- bine together. In the visceral plexuses, on the contrary, there is no relation, either in size or structure, between the afferent branches and the plexuses themselves. The nerves derived from the sympathetic system differ also in their mode of distribution from the nerves of the cerebro-spinal system. In general, they form a plexiform sheath around the vessels, and enter with them into the substance of organs. This arrangement has induced some anatomists to believe that the sympathetic nerves belong essentially and exclusively to the vascular system, and are lost upon the coats of the arteries; others hold an opposite opinion, and deny altogether that the sympathetic nerves enter the coats of those vessels. From some researches which I have made on this subject, I believe that there are proper filaments for the coats of the vessels, but that these are very few in number, and that by far the larger number of the nervous filaments are intended for the several organs. It is not unin- teresting to remark that the sympathetic nerves always accompany the arteries and never the veins; the trunk of the vena portai forming the only exception to this rule. A grey colour and a soft texture are not, as is generally stated, the peculiar characteristics of the nerves of the sympathetic system; the gi'ey colour is observed only in a portion of this system; and the softness, which only very rarely accompanies the grey colour, is confined to a very minute portion of it indeed. There are grey cords which are nothing more than prolonged ganglia, and are not nerves, properly so called; when examined they present no nervous structure, that is to say, they contain no white funiculi which can be decom- posed into primitive filaments as fine as the silk fibre. Almost all the sympathetic nerves are of a white colour, which is sometimes concealed by an unusually thick neurilemma. The structure of the white nerves of the sympa- thetic system does not differ from that of the cerebro-spinal nerves; except that the funiculi of the former are smaller, and their arrangement is more decidedly plexiform. * Lastly, there are some mixed nerves, partly grey and partly white, which partake of the structural characters of both the grey and the white nerves, f * See note, p. 1026. t I am much indebted to M. C. Bonamy, my private prosector, for tlie zeal and ability with which he has assisted me in the numerous dissections required for the compilation of tliis work.