NEUROLOGY. The fourth branch or branch for the adductor magnus is the deepest; it passes between the adductor brevis and magnus, and ramifies in the last-mentioned muscle.* The Crural Nerve. The crural nerve (g, fig. 290.) is the external terminal branch of the lumbar plexus; the third and fourth lumbar nerves are almost entirely devoted to the formation of this large branch, which supplies all the muscles of the anterior region of the thigh, and the integuments of the anterior regions of the thigh, leg, and foot. After emerging from the psoas, the crural nerve is lodged in the groove between the psoas and iliacus ; it escapes from the pelvis with this muscle, in the sheath of which it is contained: having arrived below the femoral arch (.9'fi9- 291.), it turns slightly outwards, becomes flattened and widened, and immediately divides into a great number of diverging branches. The nerve sometimes bifurcates, and then gives off these different branches. Relations. In the iliac fossa, the crural nerve is covered by the iliac fascia, and is separated by the psoas from the external iliac artery and vein. Oppo- site the femoral arch it always occupies the groove between the psoas and iliacus, and is situated on the outer side of the femoral artery, being separated from the vessel by the psoas, which is very narrow at that point. It is of im- portance to remark that the crural nerve is not contained in the sheath of the femoral vessels, but is separated from them by the iliac fascia (see Vol. I. ^g. 136.). Collateral branches. In the pelvis, the crural nerve gives off from its outer side a great number of small branches {iliac branches), which enter separately into the iliacus muscle, after having run for some distance obliquely downwards and outwards upon the surface of that muscle. Only one branch enters the psoas. One of the branches for the iliacus is very long, and descends vertically in front of that muscle, into which it enters, after having turned round its outer border. I have already said that the external inguinal nerve (inguino-cutaneous of authors) not unfrequently arises from the crural nerve. In the pelvis the nerve has been seen to give filaments to the levator ani. (Schmidt, Dc Nervis Lumbnlilms eorumque Plexu, 1794; Dr. Alex. Thomson, Land. Med. and Surg. Journal, Nos. 94, 9S.; Ellis, Demonstrations of Anatomy).'] * [In the dissections of Schmidt, Thomson, and Ellis, the branches of the obturator nerve were found to liave a much more extensive distribution than that described in the text. Ac- cording to their observations, one of the superficial branches, which is named the long cutaneous nerve (J, 291.), and which corresponds to the anastomotic division of the branch for the adductor longus, gives off cutaneous branches (q^fig.Wl.) which perforate the fascia to the inner side of the sartorius muscle, and supply the skin on the inner part of the thigh; it also gives anastomotic branches to the plexus {m,fig. 291.) formed in the middle of the thigh, and sometimes an articular filament to the knee (these anastomotic and articular branches are de- scribed in the text, p. 1071.); it then ends in a descending cutaneous branch which perforates the fascia near the knee (r, ^g. 292.), communicates with the internal cutaneous and internal saphenous nerves, and is distributed to the skin on the inner and back part of the two upper thirds of the leg. The deep branch of the obturator gives off within the upper part of the ad- ductor magnus an articular filament destined for the knee joint; this filament descends in the substance of the adductor near the linea aspera, and enters the popliteal space, either by per- forating the tendinous insertion of the muscle about its lower third, or by coming forwards on the front of that insertion, and then passing backwards through the opening for the femoral artery: having reached the popliteal space, it surrounds the artery with small filaments, and enters the back part of the knee joint. The cutaneous branches just stated to be given off by the superficial part of the obturator to the thigh and leg, and the articular filament given by the deep branch of the obturator to the knee joint, correspond in their distribution with the three colliiteral branches described by M. Cruveilhier (pp. 1075-6.) as arising from the internal saphenous nerve after it has received a remarkable branch of origin from the obturator opjjosite to the commencement of the profunda artery : these collateral branches of the internal saphenous were never met with in Mr. Ellis's dissections. In some cases, then, it seems that part of the obturator joins the internal saphenous, which afterwards gives off cutaneous branches to the thigh and leg, and an articular filament to the knee ; in other cases, again, the obturator does not join the internal saphenous, the above-mentioned branches arise directly from the obturator, and the internal saphenous gives *io collateral branches.]