THE EXTERNAL PLANTAR NERVE. 1091 under an arch distinct from that for the internal plantar, and which is common to it and the external plantar vessels; it then runs downwards and outwards, between the flexor brevis and flexor accessorius, is reflected forward, and di- vides into two branches, a superficial and a deep. ■ ~ Collateral branches. During its course, the external plantar nerve gives off, immediately after its origin, one large branch, which runs horizontally out- wards in front of the tuberosities of the os calcis, passes under the flexor ac- cessorius, and is reflected forwards to enter the abductor minimi digitt. At the point of its reflection, it gives off a transverse branch, which is lost in the pos- terior attachment of the muscle. The external plantar also supplies the nerve OT nerves for the flexor accessorius. ^ s-l-,.-,. Terminal branches. The superficial terminal branch (c,fig. 294.), which is the continuation of the trunk of the nerve, divides into two others, one external, the other internal. . The external branch passes very obliquely outwards, below the flexor brevis digiti minimi, crosses the tendon of the abductor brevis obliquely, then runs along the outer side of the fifth metatarso-phalangal articulation, and forms the external collateral nerve of the little toe. It supplies a great number of cutaneous nerves, also the nerves for the flexor brevis digiti minimi, those for the interos- seous muscles of the fourth space, and lastly, some articular filaments. The internal branch passes forwards, below the flexor tendon, following the original direction of the superficial branch of the external plantar, and, after a rather long course, bifurcates to form the internal collateral nerve of the little toe, and the external collateral nerve of the fourth toe; like the external branch, it also gives off some cutaneous and articular nerves. The deep terminal branch of the external plantar passes above, i. e. deeper than the flexor accessorius, changes its direction, so as to describe an arch, having its concavity turned inwards and backwards, and the convexity out- wards and forwards, enters, together with the external plantar artery, above which it is situated, between the adductor pollicis and the interossei, and is lost in the former muscle. Before reaching the adductor pollicis it gives off some articular filaments to the metatarsal and tarso-metatarsal articulations, and also a filament for the fourth lumbricalis. Beyond the adductor pollicis the nerve gives off the filament for the third lumbricalis; this filament, which is remarkable for the length of its course, passes horizontally forwards, opposite to the third interosseous space, and passes through the fibres of the transversus pedis, to reach its destination ; it then gives off the filaments for the transversus, and those for the interosseous muscles of the third, second, and first, spaces. Summary of the external plantar nerve. The external plantar nerve, there- fore, supplies cutaneous filaments to the outer side of the sole of the foot, to the fifth toe, of which it forms both collateral nerves, and to the fourth toe, of which it forms the external collateral nerve. It also gives off muscular nerves to the flexor accessorius, the flexor brevis, and abductor digiti minimi, to the adductor pollicis, and transversus pedis, to all the interossei, and to the two external lumbricales. Lastly, it furnishes some articular filaments. Summary of the nerves of the lower extremity. The lower extremity is sup- plied with nerves from the lumbar and sacral plexuses. The lumbar plexus. The lumbar plexus gives ahnost all its branches to the lower extremity, viz. the external and internal inguinal nerves, the obturator nerve, and the crui-al nerve ; the lumbo-sacral cord is also distributed to the lower extremity through the medium of the sacral plexus. The external and internal inguinal nerves are the principal cutaneous nerves of the anterior and external regions of the thigh; the obturator nerve is a muscular nerve intended for the obturator extemus, the three adductors, and the gracilis.* » [Thcobtur.'itor also supplies part of the pcctincus, and sometimes gives cutaneous branches to the thigh aud leg, and uu articular Ulamont to the kuoo (see note, p. 1072.).] ""i-ires G G 3