THE GLUTEAL ARTERY. 737 brim of the pelds, and divides into a superficial branch, which passes under the iliac fascia, ramifies upon the iliacus muscle, and anastomoses with the cir- cumflex iliac artery; and into a deep and much larger branch, which passes between the iliacus muscle and the iliac fossa, and divides into muscular and periosteal twigs. The principal nutritious artery of the ilmm is derived from *^'when there are two ilio-lumbar arteries, the superior represents the lumbar branch, and the inferior the iliac branch: in such a case the latter branch always'arises from the gluteal artery. The Lateral Sacral Arteries. Most commonly there are two lateral sacral arteries on each side ; they belong rather to the interior of the sacral canal than to the cavity of the pelvis, and form a continuation of the spinal branches of the lumbar arteries ; they almost as frequently arise from the gluteal as from the internal iliac; sometimes they are derived from the sciatic or the ilio-lumbar arteries. The superior lateral sacral is generally of considerable size. It passes almost horizontally inwards, and after having given off some small transverse branches, which anastomose with the middle sacral,.enters the first anterior sacral fora- men, and divides into two branches — one intended for the nerves and their coverings, and another which emerges from the sacral canal by the corre- sponding posterior sacral foramen, and is distributed to the spinal muscles and to the skin. The inferior lateral sacral {I, fig. 212.) is situated at first under the digit- ations of the pyrLformis muscle, afterwards passes in front of that muscle, and is directed inwards and downwards on the inner side of the sacral foramina, and along the borders of the coccyx, where it anastomoses with the middle sacral. In this course it gives off a series of very small internal branches, which correspond to the several sacral vertebrte, and anastomose with the middle sacral; also some posterior or spinal branches, each of which enters the sacral canal through the corresponding sacral foramen, and subdivides into two small branches—one intended for the nerves and their coverings, whilst the other emerges from the sacral canal by the corresponding posterior sacral foramen, and is distributed to the muscles and the skin. When the superior lateral sacral is small, the posterior or spinal branch of the inferior . lateral sacral is very large. The inferior lateral sacral artery often terminates by a spinal branch, which enters at the lowest anterior sacral foramen. The Gluteal Artery. The gluteal artery (m,fig. 212.), called also the posterior iliac, is the largest branch of the internal iliac, of which it might be considered the continuation. It might be called superior gluteal, in contra-distinction to the sciatic, which is in reality an inferior gluteal. It passes downwards and backwards between the lumbosacral nerve and the first sacral nerve, escapes from the pelvis at the upper part of the great sacro-sciatic notch, above the pyriformis muscle (ni, fig. ■•8.), is reflected upon the border of that notch and divides into a super- ficial and a deep branch. The superficial branch (a) passes horizontally for- wards, between the glutseus maximus and medius, and is almost entirely dis- tributed to the upper part of the first-named muscle and to the adjacent part of the skin ; the deep branch (6) passes between the glutSBus medius and minimus, and subdivides into two branches ; the lower of these runs horizontally, and may be traced as far as the anterior border of the glutseus medius, whilst the other very nearly follows the curve described by the origin of the glutffius minimus. This branch gives off some muscular arteries, several nutritious arteries to the bone, and several articular branches. One circumstance regarding the gluteal artery worthy of remark is the fact, that, in common with all arteries of a certain size, it is liable to aneui^ism, H 2