ANGEIOLOGY. 736 sides of the same subject. Thus, when the obturator comes from the femoral, It passes upwards on the inner side of the femoral vein, enters the pelvis through the crural ring, is reflected upon the upper surface of the body of the OS pubis, then passes behind it and gains the internal opening of the subpubic canal. When it arises by a common trunk with the epigastric, it dips ver- tically behind the os pubis to the same opening. In its ordinary mode of origin, it passes horizontally forwards upon the sides of the brim of the pelvis, being bound down by the peritoneum, runs parallel with the obturator nerve (n), which is placed above it, gains with it the internal orifice of the subpubic canal, and having traversed this passage, divides into an internal and an external terminal branch. Collateral branches. Near its origin, the obturator artery gives off a toler- ably large branch, the iliac, which perforates the iliac fascia, dips between the iliacus muscle and the iliac fossa, and anastomoses with a branch of the cir- cumflex iliac artery. As it enters the subpubic canal, it gives off a small branch, which passes transversely behind the body of the pubis, and ramifies upon the side of the symphysis, anastomosing with its fellow of the opposite side ; also a small as- cending branch (s), which anastomoses with the epigastric artery, and which may be regarded, according to Meckel, as one of the origins of the obturator, so that the variety in which the obturator arises from the epigastric is often nothing more than an unusual developement of this communicating branch. In support of this view, we may quote the very rare case, in which the obtu- rator arises by two roots of almost equal size, one coming from the epigastric, and the other from the internal iliac. Terminal branches. The internal branch passes between the obturator ex- ternus muscle and the conjoined rami of the pubes and ischium, so as to de- scribe a semicircle around the inner half of the obturator foramen, gives branches to the periosteum of the os pubis, muscular branches to the two ob- turator and to the adductor muscles, some genital branches to the coverings of the testis in the male and to the labia majora in the female, and lastly, some very important anastomotic branches, which join those of the internal circum- flex. The external branch runs along the outer half of the obturator foramen ; it is placed, like the preceding, between the two obturator muscles, and terminates between the neck of the femur and the quadratus femoris muscle by anasto- mosing with the sciatic artery. This anastomosis is very remarkable. During its course, the external branch supplies the obturator muscles and the hip- joint ; the articular branch enters by the notch of the cotyloid cavity, and is lost in the reddish fatty tissue, situated at the bottom of it. The distribution of the obturator artery is much more limited than that of the obturator nerve. The lUo-lumbar Artery. The ilio-lumbar artery (A) arises from the back of the internal iliac, and tolerably frequently from the gluteal. There are often two ilio-lumbar ar- teries. This vessel bears the same relation to the lumbar arteries, that the superior intercostal does to the aortic intercostals; its size and distribution vary according to the presence or absence of the fifth lumbar artery. It has a retrograde course, running upwards and backwards in front of the lumbo-sacral nerve, and behind the psoas muscle, and soon divides into two branches an ascending or lumbar, and a transverse or iliac. The ascending or lumbar branch passes vertically upwards along the bodies of the lumbar ver- tebras, hidden by the psoas, and subdivides into a muscular branch, which cor- responds to the abdominal branches of the lumbar arteries, and is distributed to the psoas and to the quadratus lumborum ; and a spinal hrmch, which enters the vertebral canal by the foramen between the fifth lumbar vertebra and the sacrum, and is distributed in the same manner as the other spmal arteries. The transverse or iliac branch passes horizontally outwards, opposite the