prolonged upwards upon the sides of the septum lucidum, and downwards as far as the upper surface of the optic commissure, the posterior border of which is imbedded in this grey mass and receives from it a short white root on each side. The lateral walls of the third ventricle are united together, opposite the an- terior part of the optic thalami, by a grey substance called the soft commissure, commissura mollis (6), the grei/ commissure, and also the vascular commissure of the optic thalami; it varies much in size, and is very easily torn ; but I have always found the remains of it in those cases in which it appeared at first sight to be wanting.* I regard the soft commissure as a prolongation of the grey mass of the third ventricle, and this substance appears to me to be of the same nature as the grey matter of the convolutions. The floor of the third ventricle is of greater extent than the walls of that ca- vity ; it is concave upon its upper or ventricular surface, and convex below. We shall divide it into three portions : the posterior portion of the floor (above n,fig. 282.) is deeply grooved along the median line, forms an inclined plane sloping downwards and forwards, and corresponds to the interval between the peduncles of the cerebrum ; its white colour, which is scarcely concealed by the thin layer of grey matter upon it, contrasts strongly with the distinct grey colour of the lateral walls. The middle portion of the floor is funnel-shaped, and corresponds to the corpora albicantia (2), and to the infundibulum (i) ; it leads to the canal in the infundibulum. The anterior portion of the floor (m) is in- clined downwards and backwards, and is formed by a very thin, semi-trans- parent layer of grey substance {lamina ciiierea), which we may call with Tarin, * Out of sixty-six brains of subjects of all ages examined by the brothers Wenzel, the .soft commissure was found in fifty-six. It was, therefore, wanting in ten cases. The facility with which it is lacerated may have misled these industrious investigators into n belief tliat its ab. sence was more frequent than it actually is. VOL. II. A A