NEUROLOGY. 1114 the malar region*, and a temporal filament which perforates the orbital portion of the malar bone and dips into the anterior part of the temporal muscle, in which it anastomoses with the anterior deep temporal neive, a branch of the inferior maxillary. I have sometimes seen two temporal filaments pass through the malar bone at two different points.f The Sp/ieno-palatine Ganglion and its Branches. After having given off the orbital nerve, and while it is still contained in the spheno-maxillary fossa, the superior maxillary nerve gives off from its lower side a thick branch, frequently two, and occasionally several branches, from which a great number of diverging nerves immediately proceed ; these are the three palatine nerves, the spheno-palatine nerves, and the vidian nerve : at the point where these nerves diverge is found an enlargement which the elder Meckel |, whose name is connected with the description of the fifth pair, regarded as a ganglion, and which is therefore called Meckel's ganglion, or the spheno-palatine ganglion (situated before s,fig. 299.; below b,fig. 301.) In a certain number of cases, I have sought in vain for the ganglionic structure in this enlargement, i. e. for grey matter with white filaments scattered through it. It appeared then to be nothing more than the common trunk or starting point of a great number of nerves ; in the majority of cases, however, a quantity of grey matter certainly exists, but is so arranged, that the nerves may gene- rally be traced quite through the enlargement, so that they clearly are not given off from the ganglion itself, but come directly from the superior maxillary nerve.§ I shall now describe in succession the branches which proceed from Meckel's ganglion. The Palatine Nerves. These nerves (g g,fig- 299.; g,fig- 301.) are three in number, an anterior palatine, which is the largest, a posterior palatine [the middle of some authors], which is the next in size, and an intermediate nerve [the posterior of some au- thors], which is the smallest; these nerves are continuous with Meckel's gan- glion ; it is most evident, that, in the greater number of cases, they arise di- rectly from the lower part of the superior maxillary nerve. The anterior or great palatine nerve immediately enters the posterior palatine canal, through the whole length of which it passes, and, having reached the lower orifice of that canal, is reflected forwards, and terminates by bifurcating on the hard palate. During its course, it gives off an inferior nasal branch (lower /, fig. 299.) which is distributed over the middle meatus and the middle and infe- rior turbinated bones : the twig for the inferior turbinated bone may be traced to the fore part of that bone; it also gives off the anterior palatine, and se veral small twigs which perforate the inner wall of the maxillary sinus, and are distributed to the la-st molar teeth ; lastly, at its exit from the posterior » It is said that this twig anastomoses with the facial nerve in the malar region; I have never hppn fortunate enough to discover this anastomosis. . , u _ i t rCh of these temporal filaments may be joined by communicating tmgs from the lachrymal nerve with"n the oJbk; one of them anastomoses with the anterior deep temporal nerve, as Sbovl-raent"one^^ having entered the temporal fossa through the ma ar bone ascends on theTemnral surface of that bone, turns outwards, perforates the temporal fasc.a about an fnch aboreThe z goma, anastomoses with filaments of the facial nerve, and of the auriculo- iempS branch of the inferior maxillary nerve, and is lost in the skm on the temple.] \ ?!.Tne''case\hf ga%Uon of Meckel was in contact with the internal surface of the superior mamillary ne^ve ln^ thl same case a filament proceeded from the upper part o '>e ganghon, rnd ioincc the branch given by the external motor nerve to the symiiathetic. 1 ''»^« »^f." able tTdiscovIr the filaments which are said to establish a communication between Meckel s ganglion and the optic nerve.