THE BASE OF THE BRAIN. 973 ' In man and the camivora only are there two mammillary tubercles, and in all the other vertebrata there is but one. They attain their highest state of developement in fishes, if, as stated by Vicq d'Azyr, they are represented by the two larger lobes, which occupy a corresponding situation in that class of animals During the early periods of foetal life they are blended together into one tolerably large mass, and do not become distinct from each other until about the seventh month. The Optic Tracts and Commissure. At the point where the peduncles of the cerebrum pass into the brain, each of them is surrounded by a white band, named the optic tract, or tract of the optic nerve. Each of those tracts commences, behind, at an eminence called the corpus geniculatum externum {j,fig. 271.), which will be seen hereafter to be an appendage of that part of the brain named the optic thalamus. The corpus geni- culatum internum (i, Jig. 271, 272.) of authors is merely a tubercle inserted into the bend or knee formed by the corpus geniculatum externum. The optic tract (2,^^. 272.) then is the continuation of the corpus geniculatum externum, from which it is distinguished by its whiteness, which contrasts strongly with the grey colour of that body : it is at first broad, flattened, and thin, and is applied to the corresponding cerebral peduncle, being distinguished from the peduncle only by the direction of its fibres. It then turns horizon- tally around the peduncle, is detached from it, and at the same time becomes narrower and thicker ; having reached the front of the peduncle it changes its direction, passes forwards and inwards (s. Jig. 276.), and is united with its fellow of the opposite side, to form the commissure or chiasma (t) of the optic nerves (2). The optic tracts may be regarded as forming a commissure to the two optic thalami. These tracts and the cerebral peduncles of the two sides inclose a lozenge- shaped interval, in which are situated the posterior perforated spot, the corpora albicantia, the tuber cinereum, the infundlbulum, and the pituitary body. The Tuber Cinereum, the Infundibulum, and the Pituitary Body. The term tuber cinereum (v) has been applied by Soemmerring to the soft grey mass which occupies the triangular interval between the corpora albicantia and the optic tracts. It is also called the floor of the third ventricle, because it closes that cavity behind and below, and the base of the infundibulum, because that part is attached to it. The infundibulum (la tige pituitaire, Lieutaud; la tige sus-sphenoidale, Chauss.) is a reddish process (i), about two lines In length, directed very ob- liquely downwards and forwards (i. Jig. 282.), and applied to the lower surface of the tuber cinereum : it is broad at its upper extremity, but soon diminishes in diameter, and descends to be inserted into and become continuous with the pituitary body. Is the infundibulum hollow, or is it a solid stem ? The term Infundibulum or funnel, apphed to this part by the older anatomists, and the foUowing syno- nymes, pelvis colatona, scyphus, aqua ductus, encephali sentina, afford ample evidence of both their anatomical and physiological views regarding it. Galen and Vesahus, who are so often at variance, are perfectly agreed upon this sub- ject, and describe the mlundibulum with a minute exactness ; but since the communication supposed by Galen to exist between the nasal fossa and the brain by means of passages through the ethmoid and sphenoid bones, and the equally hypothetical communication admitted by Vesalius, are known to have no existence, anatomists have rejected the notion of the passage of a fluid from the brain in this direction, and they no longer regard the infundibulum as a funnel intended for its transmission. Haller has collected in some learned notes the contradictory opinions of his predecessors, but has left the question