786 ANGEIOLOGY. longitudinal groove, and opposite the sutures upon the hase of the skull (through most of the foramina found in that situation), an uninterrupted com- munication is estahlished between the veins within and those outside the cra- nium. Venous circulation of the face. All the veins of the face and of the parietes of the cranium end in two principal trunks, the facial and the temporal. The facial vein corresponds to a part of the internal maxillary artery, to a part of the ophthalmic artery, and to the facial artery properly so called. One of the most remarkable circumstances connected with the distribution of the facial vein is, the communication between it and the cavernous sinus, established at the inner angle of the orbit by means of the ophthalmic vein, so that the veins on the inside and on the outside of the cranium are most intimately connected. * The temporal vein represents the temporal artery, a part of the internal maxillary artery, and the upper part of the external carotid, and returns the blood from the entire side of the head. With regard to the veins of the tongue, we should remark the existence of two submucous veins, corresponding to the subcutaneous veins in the limbs, and intended to return the blood, instead of the deep veins of the tongue, during the contractions of that organ. The size of the superior middle thjToid veins, their number, which exceeds that of the arteries, and their free anastomoses with the inferior thyroid veins, render them an important medium of circulation when the passage of the blood from the head is obstructed, and at the same time a diverticulum in great impe- diments to the circulation. The irregularity which exists in the relative size of the internal, external, and anterior jugular veins, and also in the distribution of the veins of the head between these three trunks, proves that, in the venous as well as in the arterial system, the origin or termination of the vessels is of little importance, and that after the venous system of any part is once formed, it matters but little with which of the great vascular trunks it is connected. Lastly, the free communications which exist between all the preceding veins afford sufficient evidence that but little interest need be attached to their termi- nation in one or another of the principal venous trunks. The Deep Veins of the Upper Extremity. The veins of the upper extremity are divided into the deep and the superficial or subcutaneous. The Palmar, Radial, Ulnar, Brachial, and Axillary Veins. The deep veins of the upper extremity exactly follow the course of the arteries, form their vense comites, and take the same names : there are almost always two to each artery. The large venous trunks alone form exceptions to this rule. Thus, there are two superficial and two deep palmar veins; two deep radial and two deep ulnar veins; we also find two brachial veins ; but there is only one axillary and one subclavian vein. All these vense comites receive branches formed by the union of still smaller ones, which are themselves the venffi comites of-the ramifications of the arteries, there being two veins with each small artery. The subclavian vein, however, is an exception to this, for it does not receive all the veins which correspond to the branches of the sub- * The study of these anastomoses ought to lead us again to have recourse to those local venesections which have fallen into disuse smce the discovery of "^^^^^^ enable us to determine, on anatomical grounds, the proper places at Y''"^,*^'^ey sho^^^ Tiprformed Thus it annears to me, that we might advantageously introduce into pract'ce gleedrgl^m Uie an^ in diseases ?fthe eye; from over the raasM^^^^^^^^ the point which corresponds to the junction of the longitudinal with the la/nbdoidal suture, in cerebral affections ; and bleeding from the ranine vein in diseases of the pharynx.