THE VERTEBRAL ARTERY. 709 F 4 the neck, before it entered the covered way formed for it by the cervical transverse processes. ■ Not unfrequently the vertebral artery enters the canal of the transverse pro- cesses at the fifth cervical vertebra; it has occasionally been seen to enter at the fourth, third, and even at the second. It very rarely enters the foramen of the seventh' cervical vertebra. Relations. Before entering the foramen of the sixth cervical vertebra, the vertebral artery is situated deeply upon the spine, between the longus colli and the anterior scalenus, and behind the inferior thyroid artery. The thoracic duct is at first on the inner side, and then in front of the left vertebral artery. From the si.xth cervical vertebra to the atlas, it is protected by the canal formed by the series of foramina in the transverse processes, a,nd in the intervals between them by the inter-transversales muscles ; it lies in front of the cervical nerves, but the sub-occipital nerve lies between it and the groove in the atlas. In the intervals between the axis and atlas, and between the atlas and occipital bone, it is in relation with the complexus and trachelo- mastoideus, and with the rectus capitis posticus major and obliquus superior. In the cranium, it is situated between the basilar surface of the occipital bone and the anterior surface of the medulla oblongata. Collateral branches. In its course along the canal of the transverse processes, the vertebral artery gives off spinal branches, which enter the vertebral canal through the intervertebral foramina, and are distributed in the same manner as the spinal branches of the intercostal and lumbar arteries. Several of these branches, however, are derived from the ascending cervical artery, and from the praevertebral branches of the ascending pharyngeal. From the two curves formed by the vertebral artery arise a great number of small muscular branches, which are distributed to the deep muscles of the cervical region, and anasto- mose with branches of the occipital and deep cervical arteries. Among these, there is one, sometimes two, which enters the cranium through the foramen magnum, and is distributed to the dura mater lining the inferior occipital fossse, and to the falx cerebelli : it is the posterior meningeal artery (rami meninges posteriores. Holler). Soemmerring has pointed out a small meningeal branch, which enters the cranium with the first cervical or sub-occipital nerve, and which appears to me to be constant. In the cranium, before uniting to form the basilar, the vertebral arteries give off the posterior and anterior spinal arteries, and the inferior cerebellar. Spinal arteries. These are small branches, remarkable for being extremely slender, and for arising at an obtuse angle, so that they descend in a precisely opposite direction to the vertebral arteries, which ascend vertically; they are distinguished into the anterior and the posterior spinal artery. It is incorrect to regard them as continued down to the lower part of the spinal cord ; they are so slender, that they can only supply a very small portion of the cord ; in reality they are nothing more than the commencement of the spinal arteries, which are continued through the whole extent of the cord by means of branches given oS from the cervical, dorsal, and lumbar arteries. The posterior spinal artery arises from the vertebral whilst that vessel lies upon the side of the medulla oblongata, and sometimes from the inferior cere- bellar artery; it passes in a tortuous manner inwards, and divides into an ascending branch, which terminates upon the sides of the fourth ventricle, and a descending tortuous branch, which winds along the sides of the posterior surface of the cord, and divides into two twigs, a small one situated before and a larger one placed behind the posterior roots of the spinal nerves; around each of these roots they form a network, and, by means of transverse branches, which are twisted on themselves and much interlaced, they communicate with the corresponding branches of the opposite side. Chaussier was therefore in- correct in giving the name of the posterior median artery of the spine to the two posterior spmal arteries. These small branches of the vertebral are soon.