983 HORIZONTAL SECTIONS OF THE BRAIN. the base and internal surface of the hemispheres have been so to speak, dis- inherited ; for all the mental faculties have been located by him m the convo- lutions of the convex surface. The Internal Steucture of the Cebebeum. In order to make as complete an examination of the internal conformation of the brain as is possible in the actual state of science, it should be prosecuted by means of sections in different directions; by tearing the bram, and by acting upon it with streams of water ; and by dissectmg brains that have been hardened by alcohol, or by being boiled in oil or in a strong solution of salt. Examinatio7i of the Internal Structure of the Brain by Sections. This mode of examining the brain was the one employed by Galen, it was revived by Vicq d'Azyr, and is now generally adopted. By means of these different sections it is easy to study the internal conform- ation of the brain in its principal details. The other methods are more espe- cially adapted for determining the connections of the several parts of the cerebrum with each other, or with the other portions of the cerebro-spinal axis. I shall commence by an examination of horizontal sections of the brain. * Horizontal Sections of the Brain, On making an incision into the brain, this organ is found to consist of two substances — a grey cineritious or cortical substance, and a white or medullary substance, which is surrounded on all sides by the grey, f First section. A horizontal section, made so as to remove the upper half of the superior convolutions of the cerebrum, shows that each convolution consists of a central white portion, surrounded on all sides with a layer of grey sub- stance ; that the grey substance is accurately moulded upon the white, the form of which determines that of the corresponding convolution; that the thickness of the grey matter varies from half a line to a line and a half; and that it is far from being uniform, either in the same or in different convo- lutions. In judging of the thickness it is Important to have regard to the direction of the section, for it is easy to understand that an oblique section of the grey matter will give a very different result from one made perpen- dicularly. The section described above also shows that the convolutions are continuous with each other, and it enables us to comprehend their irregular, complex, and sinuous arrangement better than could be done without cutting into the brain. The relative proportion of the grey and white substances in each convolution may be determined approximately by macerating a brain for some days; the grey substance being softer and more readily decomposed, is thus converted into pulp, and may be easily removed. The convolutions being thus reduced to the white substance only, appear like short white lamellae, arising from different points of the surface of the central medullary mass. I estimate the grey matter at about five sixths of each convolution. Second section. A horizontal section made beneath the base of the convo- lutions of the convex surface of the hemispheres, presents an appearance like that of a geographical chart, of a deeply and irregularly indented coast; an appearance which cannot be described without figures. It consists of a central mass of medullary substance, which is narrowed like an isthmus behind: extending from this central mass are certain prolongations, which may be divided into several orders, and which are themselves subdivided, so as to form the medullary centre of each convolution. Third section. A horizontal section, made on a level with, or rather just » The sections should be made with a very sharp instrument, a razor, for example. T See note, p. 935.