827 THE LYMPHATICS OF THE LIVER. The Lymphatic System of thf Liver. Preparation. — Oi all the lymphatic vessels, those of the liver are the most easily demonstrated. Before they are injected, they maybe rendered more ap- parent and even be fiUed, by throwing water either into the hepatic arteries, the vena p'ortiE, the hepatic veins, or the hepatic ducts. In order to inject them, it is sufficient to make a superficial puncture in any part of the peritoneum covering the liver; but it is most convenient to operate upon one of the lymphatic trunks which run upon the surface of that organ. It is of importance that the tube should be introduced between the peritoneal covering and the fibrous coat, without perforating the latter. It is sufficient to inject from a single vessel, in order to fiU all the others. The mercury generally runs as far as the nearest lymphatic gland, the resistance in which causes the fluid to flow back into the surrounding branches, even as far as their most delicate ramifications, so that in successful injections the whole surface of the liver has a silvery aspect; the possibility of injecting the lymphatics of the liver, from the trunks towards the branches, must lead us to suppose that there are fewer valves in them than in the lymphatics of other parts of the body. The Lymphatic Glands of the Liver. These are situated along the hepatic vessels, behind the pylorus, and are continuous with the coeliac lymphatic glands. I have seen them of a jet black colour ; a liquid may be expressed from them, resembling that contained in the bronchial lymphatic glands. The Lymphatic Vessels of the Liver. The lymphatics of the liver may be divided into the superficial and. the deep. The superficial lymphatics. These are subdivided into those of the convex, and those of the concave surface. The lymphatics of the convex surface of the liver consist of a certain number of trunks, some of which belong to the right, and the others to the left lobe. Some of them run from behind forwards, others from before backwards towards the posterior border of the organ. _ -The first set, or those which run from behind forwards, reach the suspensory ligament of the liver, and unite into several trunks, some of which perforate the diaphragm, enter the anterior mediastinum, behind the xiphoid cartilage, and terminate in the mediastinal lymphatic glands; whilst others are reflected over the anterior margin of the liver, to gain the longitudinal fissure, along ■ which they run as far as the gastro-hepatic omentum, by which they are con- ducted to the lymphatic glands placed round the pylorus, to those around the cardiac orifice of the stomach, and to those which lie along the lesser curvature of that organ, and near the lobulus Spigelii. The second set of the lymphatics of the convex surface of the liver, or those which run from before backwards, having reached the posterior border of the liver, divide into three distinct groups of vessels: those on the left enter the substance of the left triangular ligament of the liver; those on the right pass mto the right triangular ligament, whilst the remainder, which occupy the middle, enter the substance of the coronary ligament Those lymphatics of the second set that do not perforate the diaphragm, enter the lymphatic glands along the vena cava, and from thence reach the thoracic duct. Some of them run along the lower border of the twelfth rib and open into the glands situated near its posterior extremity, and into another gland which rests upon the twelfth dorsal vertebra. Those lymphatics of the second set which do perforate the diaphragm nass through Its crura and proceed some to the intercostal lymphatic glands or mto those which he along the vena azygos and the aorta, and thence into the