THE ARTERIES. 659 C 3 Vessels and nerves. The arteries of the pericardium are very small; they are derived from the surrounding arterial branches, viz. the superior phrenic, the anterior mediastinal, and the bronchial. The veins accompany the arteries, and open into the brachio-cephalic veins. Several of them are also said to terminate in the coronary veins. The lymphatic vessels enter the lymphatic glands, which surround the vena cava superior. No 7ierves have yet been demonstrated in the pericardium, though possibly they may exist. THE ARTERIES. Definition.—Nomenclature.— Origin. — Varieties. — Course.—Anastomoses— Fonn and relations. — Termination. — Structure. — Preparation. The term arteries* is applied to the vessels -which arise from the ventricles of the heart, and to their several divisions. There are two systems of arteries, one of which commences at the right ven- tricle, whilst the other commences at the left. The primitive trunk of the first is the pulmonary artery, that of the second is the aorta. These two arterial systems are perfectly distinct in the adult, but commu- nicate freely, and form only one system in the foetus. The following general remarks apply more particularly to the aorta and its divisions:— The arteries form an uninterrupted succession of decreasing canals, all arising from a common trunk. In this respect we may compare the entire arterial system to a tree, the trunk of which is the aorta, whilst the larger and smaller branches and the twigs are represented by the divisions -which arise in succession from that vessel, as from their common origin. Again, since the total area or capacity of all the arterial divisions greatly ex- ceeds that of the aorta, we may also regard the arterial system as a cone, the base of which is situated in the entire body, and the apex at the aorta.f The study of the arteries includes that of their nomenclature, origin, course, direction, relations, anastomoses, termination, and structure. Nomenclature. The nomenclature of the arteries leaves little to be desired in regard to pre- cision ; the names of these vessels are derived either from those of the parts to which they are distributed, as the thyroid, lingual, and pharyngeal arteries, &c.; or from their situation, as the femoral and radial arteries ; or from their direction, as the circumflex and coronary arteries. The limits by which one artery is distinguished from another immediately succeeding to it, may be either natural or artificial. We may regard as natural limits the point of origin on the one hand, the point of division on the other, as in the common iliac and common carotid arteries. The object of artificial limits is to enable us to establish certain divisions of the same arterial trunk, by which means we can describe its relations with greater accuracy. Thus we shall find successive portions of the artery of the upper extremity named the subclavian, the axillary, and the brachial artery. * •^■■J?"' and Tijj.?,, to keep. The ctjonology of tliis term affords us evidence of the error ot t ic ancients, who, because they always found these vessels empty and patent after death imapned that they contained air during life. ' t Haller has collected .-ill the comp.ar.itive estimates that have been made between the area ' i?r "■""''^ °f "'"f respective divisions collectively. (Elcvi Plws t i. p. 101 —lu3.) '