816 ANGEIOLOGY. and Delille in France, Tiedemann and GmeUn in Germany, and Flandrin and i.mmert in England, relying upon some ingenious experiments, again attri- buted a power of absorption to the veins, and hence led other anatomists to undertake still further researches. The inquiry was soon entered upon by M. Fobmann in 1820 and 1821 by M. Lauth in 1824, and by M. Lippi in 1825, aU of whom again referred the phenomena of absorption exclusively to the lymphatics, and supported that opinion both by arguments and facts. MM. Fohmann and Lauth admit two other modes of termination of the lymphatic system in the veins, besides the one already indicated : first, a direct termination of the lymphatic radicles in the radicles of the veins, which is supposed to occur in the substance of organs ; and, secondly, a communication between the lymphatics and veins within the lymphatic glands. This opinion, which seems reconcilable with the fact, that the area of the thoracic and right lymphatic ducts is very small as compared with that of all the lymphatic vessels, appears, a priori, to be exceedingly probable. But an anatomical fact must be shown anatomically, before it can be ad- mitted. Now, there is no proof of the communication of the lymphatic and venous radicles. M. Fohmann relies upon certain more or less ingenious inductions ; but not upon direct anatomical facts. I am, therefore, still com- pelled to doubt the existence of these communications, and to class them with the vasa serosa, or serous veins of Haller. Again, a communication between the lymphatics and the veins in the sub- stance of the lymphatic glands, had been conjectured by many anatomists; the elder Meckel had seen mercury, when thrown into the lumbar lymphatics, pass into the abdominal veins; but this fact was attributed to rupture in the interior of the glands. (Hewson, Cruickshank.) This apparent communication had also frequently been observed by Mascagni, and was attributed by him to rupture. M. Fohmann urges in reply, that this communication takes place under too slight a pressure to be referred to rupture, that actual extravasations may be easily recognised, and that the mercury is then infiltrated into the cellular tissue with much greater facility than it can enter the veins. "Why," he asks, " supposing the existence of rupture, does the mercury never pass from the lymphatics into the arteries?" He also adduces in support of his opinion, a considerable number of facts, which show that injections thrown into the lymphatic glands, sometimes escape by the lymphatics alone, sometimes by the veins alone, and sometimes by both the lymphatics and the veins. He states that having emptied the veins passing out from a mesenteric gland in a horse which had been killed whilst digestion was going on, and having re- placed the intestines in the abdomen, he found some streaks of chyle in the veins. Lastly, he has seen, in birds, the renal lymphatic vessels, which re- present the lymphatic glands in those animals, opening directly into the renal and sacral veins. M. Lauth has repeated these experiments, and obtained the same results. But, however imposing the authority of the authors just cited may be, I must confess that I am far from being convinced, and that the facts stated by them do not appear to me to be conclusive. I have made a great number of injections of lymphatics, and, in by far the greater number of cases, the mercury passed from the afferent into the efferent lymphatic vessels, and not at all into the veins. In some cases it passed from the glands into the veins; but it appeared to me, that the glands had then undergone a change in their texture, more particularly a red softening. It does not seem to me, then, to be shown that there is any direct com- munication between the lymphatics and the veins within the substance of the lymphatic glands. other parts of the body; but it is not shown that the lymphatics absorb. Some authors ttated that the veins absorb only when the lymphatic system is diseased.