THE INFERIOR MESENTERIC ARTERY. 679 arches, with their convexities turned towards the great intestine. From these arches the intestinal branches take their origin directly, and divide into two sets of parallel ramifications, an anterior and a posterior, which, like those of the small intestine, subdivide into the sub-peritoneal and the deep branches, and terminate in the diiferent coats of the intestine. Where the primary anasto- motic arches are situated at a certain distance from the intestine, for example opposite the angles of bifurcation of the arteries, or opposite the angles formed bv the ileum with the ca2cum, and by the ascending with the transverse colon, we find one, or even two, small arches filling up the angular interval. The upper branch {g) of the right superior colic artery (e, figs. 202, 203.), which supplies the right half of the arch of the colon, anastomoses with the upper branch of the left colic artery (f, fig. 203.), which is derived from the inferior mesenteric (c). This remarkable anastomosis between the superior and inferior mesenteric arteries has been pointed out by anatomists as the most important anastomosis in the body. The lowest branch of the right inferior colic artery (h,fig. 202.) anastomoses with the termination (i) of the superior mesenteric, which becomes exceedingly slender. This right inferior colic, or ileo-colic artery (Ji), supplies the caecum, the ileo-caecal angle, and the appendix vermiformis. The omphalo-mesenteric artery. In the early periods of intra-uterine life, the superior mesenteric artery gives off a branch, called the omphalo-mesenteric, which reaches the umbilicus, passes out of the abdomen, traverses the entire length of the cord, and is distributed upon the umbilical vesicle. I have found this artery perfectly distinct in an anencephalous foetus at the full term ; it is generally obliterated towards the end of the second month of intra-uterine life. The Inferior Mesenteric Artery. Dissection. Turn the small intestines to the right side ; spread out the arch of the colon, the right lumbar colon, and the sigmoid flexure; remove the peritoneum, which forms the inferior layer of the transverse mesocolon, and the right layer belonging to the descending colon and sigmoid flexure. The inferior mesenteric artery (ni, fig. 199.; c,fig. 203.) is much smaller than the superior. It arises from the front of the aorta, about two inches above the bifurcation of that vessel. It de- scends vertically in front of and in contact with the aorta, and then in front of the left common iliac artery. It is at first inclosed in the iliac meso- colon, but afterwards enters the meso- rectum, where it divides into two branches, which are named the superior hcemorrhoidal Qi, fig. 903.). In this course the inferior mesenteric gives ofp no branch on the right side; on the left it gives two, more frequently three branches, called the left colic arteries (/), which are distributed in precisely the same manner as the right colic arteries. I have ab'eady said, that the upper division of the left superior colic artery (/) inosculates with the upper division {g) of the right superior colic (c). Near the sigmoid flexure we una two, ana sometmies three series of arches from the sigmoid branch so arranged that the last may reach the intestine.