NEUROLOGY. 934 I have never been able to convince myself of the existence of these two kinds of grey matter, but I have distinctly observed the denticulated appear- ance of the circumference of the grey matter, which indicates that the grey and white matter mutually penetrate into each other. The colour of the grey substance varies considerably. In some subjects it is whitish, and can only be distinguished from the white matter by its soft- ness, its vascularity, and its not having a fibrous structure. The younger the individual, the more marked is the difference in colour between the two sub- stances. The two substances appear also to differ in their relative proportions in different individuals. Keufifel has ascertained that the grey matter is more abundant in man than in the lower animals ; and this fact would account for the pre-eminent sensibility of the human subject, in accordance with the view of Bellingeri, who considers that the grey matter is the seat of sen- sation. These horizontal sections enable us not only to determine the relative po- sition and proportions of the white and grey substances, but also to distinguish the superficial furrows from those which really enter into the cord ; the ex- istence of these columns in the spinal cord, which have already been described, is in this way fully established. Vertical sectioiis. The most important of these is one made from before backwards in the median line, as to separate the two halves of the cord. Each of these halves may then be unfolded like a ribbon, on the inner sur- face of which the grey matter forms a thin layer. A transverse vertical section, through the centre of the cord, displays the mode of origin of the anterior and posterior roots of the nerves. Examination of the Spinal Cord under a Stream of Water. The different sections above mentioned expose the general internal ar- rangements of the cord, rather than its actual structure. Until lately, authors had regarded the spinal cord as consisting of a semi- fluid pulp, which oozed out when the neurilemma was divided. Several had said, incidentally, and without distinguishing between the white and the grey substance, that the cord had a fibrous structure, and that its fibres were directed longitudinally. Gall supposed the cord to consist of a series of ganglia arranged one upon the other; but it is now generally admitted that the white matter is fibrous, and that its fibres have a linear arrangement; and this is clearly shown by examining this organ by means of a stream of water, the force and size of which may be varied at will. When directed upon the surface of a vertical section, made from before backwards down the middle line, the stream of water penetrates the substance of the cord through the grey commissure, breaks down the central grey matter, and spreads the cord out like a ribbon, from which it is very difficult to wash off all the grey matter. When treated in this way, each half of the cord is almost immediately subdivided into two columns, and if the stream of water be now directed upon the internal surface of the columns them- selves, they may be separated into a great number of wedge-shaped vertical lamellae, directed from the circumference to the centre, the thick external backs of which are turned towards the surface, and the thin internal edges towards the centre of the cord. Now, as all these lamellae are not of equal depth from back to edge, their internal edges reach to different distances from the centre; hence the denticulated appearance of the circumference of the grey matter in a section; and hence, also, the mistake of Rolando, in describ- ing the white matter as formed by a medullary layer folded a very great many times upon itself. * • Rolando has even counted these folds ; he numbers fifty in the spinal 9°"'°'',|,'?",'',';;:"''; positc the origin of the sixth pair of sacral nerves; and about thirty opposite the third pair oi