1096 NEUROLOGY. nerves, or if a stream of water be directed upon the pyramidal mamilla above described, or lastly, if Herbert Mayo's method be adopted, and the oriein ot this nerve be examined m a brain hardened in alcohol, it will be seen that besides the white superficial striae, there are a great number of deep and di- verging white roots, which appear to me to come from the anterior commissure and not from the corpus striatum.* It would follow, therefore, that the olfactory nerves arise by a commissure like the optic nerves. Cranial course. Having arisen in this manner by a sort of bulb or grey enlargement {enlargement or bulb of origin), the olfactory nerve immediately tapers, and is received into the antero-posterior sulcus intended for it, which conducts it as far as the ethmoidal groove or fossa {\, fig. 296.), where it forms an enlargement or bulb, named the ethmoidal bulb, which is analogous in many respects to its bulb of origin. When seen from below, the olfactory nerve has the appearance of a soft smooth band, grooved longitudinally along the middle, f But on reflecting the nerve backwards, it is found to be prismatic and trian- gular, that its two lateral surfaces are concave and correspond to the convo- lutions which bound the antero-posterior sulcus for the nerve, and that its upper ridge is formed by a linear tract of grey matter which connects the grey substance of its bulb of origin with that of the ethmoidal bulb. The arachnoid has a peculiar arrangement in relation to this nerve: instead of immediately forming a sheath for it, the arachnoid passes below it, and main- tains it in contact with its protecting sulcus ; whilst the pia mater passes above it, and lines the sulcus. The nerve is not entirely separated from the brain, imtil about a few lines from the ethmoidal bulb. In the human subject the olfactory nerve is not hollow in its centre, as ir the mammalia ; when hardened by alcohol, it may be decomposed into white parallel fibres, exactly similar to the fibres of the white substance of the brain. The ethmoidal bulb or enlargements. The olfactory nerves, converging towards each other, reach the ethmoidal fossaj, where each immediately expands into an olive-shaped, ash-coloured, and extremely soft bulb (the ethmoidal bulb, I, fig. 276.), to which Malacarne first applied the term ganglion, and which is formed in the following manner : — the white filaments of which the olfactory band or prism is composed spread out like a palm branch as they are about to enter the bulb, and dip into the grey or ash-coloured substance, which occupies the intervals between them: this substance is precisely analogous to the grey matter of the brain, but is less consistent; it also resembles the sub- stance of the nervous ganglia, so that Scarpa does not hesitate to regard the ethmoidal bulb as a ganglion. From this enlargement are given ofi^ the olfactory nerves properly so called, which seem as if they were pressed through the foramina of the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. It is said that the grey matter sends prolongations through these foramina, but this has not been demonstrated. The Central Extremity of the Optic Nerve. The optic nerves, or second pair {2, fig.276.), present certain peculiarities in their texture, and in their cranial course, which distinguish them from all other nerves. They have this peculiar character, that they arise by a commissure (the * Scari)a savs that the deep roots come from a white cord placed in front of and below the corpora striata. Herbert Mayo, in his beautiful plates, has represented these roots as coming ^'t'wauran'd S^ntOTM have noticed this groove. Scarpa has observed three grooves, which he regards as corresponding to as many lines of grey substaoce. M. Hippolvte C "Qiict ( Descrivl t ii n M.) "oes still further than Scarpa, and describes seven longitudinal striw, Three o'^ whiili Tre gref.^md four white. Scarpa hAs very justly remarked that the^^^^^^ of ash-coloui cd or grey substance is much more considerable in the fffitus, that it diminishes in the adult, and that it scarcely if at all exists in the old subject.