THE CRANIAL NERVES. 1093 G G 4 The crural nerve, a branch of the lumbar plexus, has no corresponding branch in those of the cervical plexus, but its muscular branches are repre- sented by the brachial portion of the musculo-spiral nerve, and its cutaneous branches by the internal brachial cutaneous. The crural nerve, in fact, sup- plies the muscles which extend the leg upon the thigh, in the same way that the musculo-spiral nerve supplies the muscles which extend the fore-arm upon the arm; the internal saphenous nerve supplies the skin of the leg, just as the internal brachial cutaneous is distributed to the skin of the fore-arm. The obturator nerve, which supplies the adductors of the thigh, is represented by the thoracic nerves and the nerve for the latissimus dorsi, which supply the pectoralis major and latissimus dorsi, the adductor muscles of the arm. The gluteal nerves are analogous to the supra-scapular and circumflex nerves. The superior gluteal, which is distributed to the glutseus medius and minimus, corresponds to the supra-scapular, which belongs to the supra- and infra-spinatus ; and the inferior gluteal or lesser sciatic nerve, which supplies the glutseus maximus and the skin of the thigh, corresponds to the circumflex nerve, which is distributed to the deltoid, and the skin of the arm. The trunk of the great sciatic nerve represents by itself the musculo-cuta- neous, the ulnar, and the median nerves, and the musculo-spiral in the fore- arm. The muscles of the anterior region of the arm, that is to say, the muscles tliat flex the fore-arm upon the arm, receive their branches from the musculo- cutaneous nerve, just as the muscles of the posterior region of the thigh or the flexors of the leg upon the thigh receive theirs from the great sciatic. The external popliteal nerve represents the musculo-spiral in the fore-arm : the former supplies the muscles of the anterior and external regions of the leg, whilst the latter is distributed to the muscles of the posterior and external regions of the fore-arm ; the former gives ofi' the dorsal cutaneous nerves of the foot, and the latter furnishes the dorsal cutaneous nerves of the hand. The internal popliteal nerve represents the median and ulnar nerves to- gether. The muscles of the posterior region of the leg are supplied by the internal popliteal, as the muscles of the anterior region of the fore-arm are sup- plied by the median and the ulnar. The internal popliteal nerve completes the series of dorsal cutaneous nerves of the foot, just as the ulnar nerve completes the dorsal nerves of the hand. Lastly, the internal plantar nerve gives ofl' all the plantar collateral nerves of the toes, excepting those for the little toe, and the external plantar col- lateral of the fourth toe ; it therefore represents the palmar portion of the me- dian nerve; and so the external plantar represents the palmar portion of the ulnar nerve, and completes the series of plantar coUateri nerves. THE CRANIAL NERVES. Definition and classification.—The Central Extremities of the Cranial Nerves — viz. of the olfactory—of the optic—of the common motor oculi—ofthe pathetic —of the trigeminal—of the external motor oculi—of theportio dura and portio mollis of the seventh—of the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumo-gastric, and spinal accessory divisions of the eighth —and of the ninth nerves. The cranial nerves are those which pass through the foramina in the base of the cranmm, not those which arise from the brain, as the rather generally adopted terms cerebral nerves and encephalic nerves would seem to indicate We shall follow Willis and the majority of anatomists in admitting nine pairs of cranial nerves, which are almost indiflPerently named, either nu- merically, from the order of their origin, counting from before backwards, or