ANGEIOLOGY. 766 excepting at its entrance into the right auricle; where the valve, however, cannot completely oppose the reflux of the hlood, for the great coronary vein is always filled when an injection is thrown into the vena cava superior. The sinall or anterior coronary veins of the heart, or small cardiac veins (vence innominatw of Vieussens), consist of three or four small veins, which run upon the anterior surface of the right ventricle, and open at the lower part of the right auricle. Among them we may point out one which runs along the right border of the heart, and has been called the vein of Galen; and also another very small one, which commences upon the infundibuliform prolonga- tion of the right ventricle, enters the right auriculo-ventricular furrow, and opens directly into the right auricle. It follows, then, that the small cardiac veins belong to the front of the right ventricle and auricle, or, we might even say, to the greater part of the right side of the heart; while the great coronary vein belongs to the left side of the heart, and to the remaining part of the right side. I have already ssiid that the veins of Thebesius, or vena minima;, which are described by Vieussens, Thebesius, and Lancisi, and which are said to pour their contents into aU the cavities of the heart, do not exist at all, and that their supposed orifices are nothing more than culs-de-sac formed by intervals between the muscular fasciculi of the heart, and at the bottom of which an areolar structure is seen. I agree with S6nac in admitting the existence of venous openings in the right auricle only (of course excepting those of the pul- monary veins). THE SUPERIOR, OR DESCENDING VENA CAVA AND ITS BRANCHES. TTie Superior vena cava. — The Brachio-cephalic veins — the inferior thyroid — the internal mammary — the superion- phrenic, the thymic, pericardiac, and mediastinal—the vertebral.— The Jugular veins, viz. Oie external—the an- terior—and the internal.— The Encephalic Veins, and the Sinuses of the dura mater, viz. the lateral — the superior longitudinal — the straight — the superior and inferior petiosal — the cavernous — the coronary — atid the anterior and posterior occipital sinuses—the conflux of the sinuses.—The Branches of origin of the jugular veins — the facial — the temporo-maxillary—the posterior auri- cular— the occipital— the lingual— the pharyngeal— the superior and middle thyroid— the veins of the diploe. — Summary of the distribution of the veins of the head.— The Deep veins of the upper extremity—the palmar, radial, ulnar, brachial, and axillary — the subclavian. — The Superficial veins of the upper extremity — in the hand—in the fore-arm — at the elbow — and in the ai-m. — General remarks on these superficial veins. The vena cava superior, descendens, is the common trunk of all the veins of the upper half of the body, and very nearly corresponds to the ascending aorta in the parts to which it is distributed. It is situated to the right of the sternum, within the thorax, and hence has been named the thoracic vena cava; it com- mences immediately below the cartilage of the first rib on the right side, where it is formed by the junction of the two brachio-cephalic veins (c c',fig. 170.), which return the blood from the whole supra-diaphragmatic portion of the body: from the point above mentioned it descends vertically, describing a slight curve the concavity of which is turned to the left, and the convexity to the right'side; it enters the pericardium, and {d, fig. 191, 193.) opens into the upper part of the right auricle (m h, fig. 193.), behind the auricula; its pos- terior half appears to be continuous with the corresponding part of the vena cava inferior: hence, doubtless, arose the opinion of Vesalius, that there is but one vena cava. .,. , . • ^ i. Its relations, whilst without and within the pericardium, require to be sepa- rately examined. ExternaUy to the pericardium, the vena cava superior is m relation with the right lung, being separated from it, however, by the right waU