NEUROLOGY. 1130 301. nerve, the glosso-phai-yngeal emerges from the foramen lacerum posterius through a fibrous canal which is proper to it, and which is situated in front of tue canal that IS common to the pneumogastric and spinal accessory nerves- It IS placed to the inner side of the internal jugular vein, from which it is separated by a cartilaginous and sometimes osseous lamina. Diu-ing its passage through this canal it presents a ganglionic enlargement, which was described by Andersh under the name of ganglion petrosum, and is now more generally known as the ganglion of Andersh. This ganglion is situated in a depression on the petrous portion of the tem- poral bone (receptaculum ganglii petrosi) ; from it the nerve proceeds as a rounded cord, which descends verticallyJig. 301.) behind the styloid muscle in front of the internal carotid, then between the stylo- pharyngeus and the stylo-glossus, and passing forwards so as to describe a curve with its concavity turned upwards, runs in front of the posterior pillar of the fauces and behind the tonsil, and then passing be- neath the hyo-glossus muscle (z), ramifies to enter the base of the tongue and supply the mucous membrane. During this course it gives off the nerve of Jacobson, and an anastomotic twig to the facial nerve ; it communicates with the spinal accessory and the pneumogas- tric ; it gives off a muscular branch to the digastricus and stylo-pharyngeus, and it supplies some carotid filaments, and some pharyngeal and tonsillar branches. The nerve of Jacobson. In order to facilitate the study of the course of this nerve, I shall first describe the canals through which it passes: — Upon the ridge which separates the jugular fossa from the carotid canal, to the outer side of the aqueduct of the cochlea, is found an opening, which is the inferior orifice of the canal of Jacobson. This canal runs backwards and up- wards into the substance of the internal wall of the cavity of the tympanum, in front of the fenestra rotunda ; there it branches into three canals ; one de- scending, which opens into the carotid canal; and two ascending canals, an anterior, which runs forwards and upwards, and opens into the groove for the great superficial petrosal or cranial branch of the vidian nerve, and a posterior, which at first ascends vertically behind the fenestra ovalis, then curves sud- denly and becomes horizontal, and opens upon the upper surface of the pars petrosa in a groove parallel to and on the outer side of the groove for the cranial branch of the vidian nerve. The nerve of Jacobson which comes oS from the petrosal ganglion, or ganglion of Andersh, enters this canal. In one subject I found it to consist of two filaments, one from the pneumogastric, and the other from the glosso- pharyngeal. * This nerve soon divides into three filaments corresponding to the three branches of the canal; the descending filament joins the carotid plexus ; of the two ascending filaments, one anastomoses with the cranial branch of the vidian, or the great superficial petrosal nerve (v,Jig. 300.), whilst the other constitutes the small superficial petrosal nerve, which reaches the upper surface of the distinct roots, a larger, which is near the par vagum, and a smaller, which lies near the facial nerve ; and from analogy they regard the former as the sensory, and the latter as the motor root. , , * In another subject it was formed by the anastomosis of a twig from the auricular brancii oi the pneumogastric with a twig from the glosso-pharyiigeal.