NEUROLOGY. 956 extreme rapidity, that it is difficult to meet with a cerebellum in which this substance is in the normal state. Form. The general outline of the cerebellum is that of an ellipsoid flat- tened from above downwards ; its long diameter is transverse, and measures from three and a half to four inches; its antero-posterior diameter is from two to two and a half inches, and its vertical diameter two inches in the thickest part, and about six lines in the thinnest part, that is at its circumference. The figure of the cerebellum may also be compared to that of a heart on playing cards, the notch of which is directed backwards, and the truncated apex forwards; or rather, as was done by the old anatomists, to two flattened spheroids, united together at their points of contact. The cerebellum is perfectly symmetrical, but yet a marked difference be- tween the right and left half of this organ is not unfrequently observed.* The cerebellum presents for our consideration an upper and a lower sur- face, and a circumference. The upper surface (Ji h. Jig. 280.) presents along the median line an antero- posterior eminence (d), which is rather prominent in front, but gradually disappears as it extends backwards : it is named the superior vermiform process (vermis superior). This eminence, which covers the valve of Vieussens and the tuhercula quadrigemina, should be regarded, as Malacarne states, as the upper part of the median lobe of the cerebellum. On each side (A h), the upper sui-face of the cerebellum forms an inclined plane. This surface is separated from the posterior lobe of the cerebrum by the tentorium cerebelli. The lower surface of the cerebellum (figs.275, 276.) is received into the concavity of the occipital fossae, to which it is exactly fitted: it is divided into two rounded lateral halves (A, fig. 275.), the lobes of the cerebellum, by an antero-posterior fissure (a to n), the great median fissure of the cerebellum (val- lecula, Holier). The back part of the cerebellum is completely subdivided by this fissure (see fig. 282.), which receives the falx cerebelli; in front, the fissure opens into a wide furrow, into which the medulla oblongata is received (see fig. 276.); in the middle of the fissure is a lozenge-shaped interval, at the bottom of which Fig. 27S. of the great median fissure; r - n . • , /is h) into the adjacent portion of the fourth ventricle; and the anterior (6) tanersfrom behind forwards, and terminates in a mammiUary enlargement (a), which is free and projects into the fourth ventricle. It has been unnecessarily ^Sg^ished from the rest of the inferior vermiform process by Malacarne and Sss'er, under the name of the laminated tubercle of Uie fourtJi ventr.cle (tubercle lamineux du quatrieme ventricule). f . ,a four cases which have come under "^IXtre oV°^^^^^^^ f^X- of the cerebrum co-existed -'t'-trophy of th^^^^^^^ ^e^■^tiot%etween^he oppositehemisphere, consisting of three portions-the is seen the base of a pyramidal eminence (a b c, fig. 275.), di- vided transversely into rings like a silkworm, and named accordingly by the older ana- tomists the inferior vermiform process (vermis inferior, pyramid of Malacarne). This eminence is developed into four prolon- gations or branches, arranged in the form of a cross ; the pos- terior prolongation (c) is taper- ing, and occupies the back part the two lateral processes dip (on each side of fore led to conclude, that there are ( of these two portions oi;the encephalon. [f he hSV von^^fom is usually described as c pjr,imid (c, fis- '^Tr..), the uvula (//), and the no,lu!us («).]