1156 NEUROLOGY. arises from the inferior cervical ganglion, but rather frequently from the first thoracic ; it accompanies the middle cardiac nerve, anastomoses with that nerve, and like it descends vertically in front of the trachea and terminates in the cardiac plexus. The connexion of the middle and inferior cardiac nerves with the recurrent nerve demands especial attention. Sometimes the recurrent sends off certain large branches which join the cardiac nerves, and form their principal origin. I have seen the middle and inferior cardiac nerves united together, crossing over the recm-rent nerve at right angles, and adhering intimately to it without presenting that admixture of filaments which constitutes an anastomosis. * The Left Cardiac Nerves. The peculiarities of the left cardiac nerves may be stated in a few words f: in the neck, they are situated in front of the oesophagus, on account of the position of that canal. The connexions between the cardiac nerves and the recurrent on the left side appear to me more numerous than those on the right. In one case, the superior and inferior cardiac nerves gave off a series of four rather large filaments, which ran along the recurrent, left that nerve opposite to its point of reflection, and then terminated in the usual manner. I ascertained that in this case the two nerves were merely in contact, and did not anastomose. In the thorax, the superior and middle cardiac nerves of the left side descend between the carotid and subclavian and then run upon the concavity of the arch of the aorta; the inferior cardiac nerve, which is the largest of all the cardiac nerves in a subject which I have now before me, passes to the left of the trunk of the pulmonary artery, turns round its back part, and embraces it in a loop, so as to enter that portion of the cardiac plexus which is situated between the aorta and the right division of the pulmonary artery. Lastly, on the left side, more commonly than on the right, the anterior pulmonary plexus sends off some filaments to this same part of the cardiac plexus. The Cardiac Ganglion and Plexuses. We have seen that the cardiac nerves of the same side anastomose with each other, on the sides or in front of the trachea. Besides this, the right, cardiac nerves anastomose with the left, upon the concavity of the arch of the aorta ; also in front of the trachea, above the right pulmonary artery; and lastly, in the anterior and posterior coronary plexuses. Wrisberg was the first to describe a ganglion in the situation of the first named anastomosis, that is to say, upon the concavity of the arch of the aorta between that vessel and the pulmonary artery, to the right of the remains of the ductus arteriosus. This ganglion, which is by no means constant, is named the cardiac ganglion; it is joined [so as to form the superficial cardiac plexus] by the superior cardiac nerve of the right side, by the same nerve of the left side, and sometimes also by the right and left cardiac branches given off from the pneumogastric nerves in the lower part of the neck. The second anastomosis, or that which takes place in front of the trachea, above the right pulmonary artery, and behind the arch of the aorta, has been known since the time of Haller, as the great cardiac plexus (magnus, pro- fundus' plexus cardiacus, Scarpa). A ganglionic enlargement is not unfre- « It is PBTiPriallv in these anastomoses between the cardiac and recurrent nerves, that 1 have betn abL Tom the different of the filaments of each, to ascertain that the anastomoses nrnerves are Sften merely a^ and consist of a simple juxtaposition of two nerves with- nnt nfw rnmmmicaUoTof t^^^^ component fasciculi, which can be traced uninterruptedly from ?heir2.trare to'S emergence. The same observation applies also to some of the anasto- "rin oSeTth^ee'fiUre^tfa™ from the left superior cervical ganglion and unite^d m a small gansHonic nodule, which also received a twig from the laryngeal nerve. This ganglionic nodSe g^ave off several pharyngeal twigs, and also the superior cardiac nerve.