ANGEIOLOGY. 802 branches of the intercostal and thoracic veins. In a case in which the umbi- lical vein was persistent, the right and left internal saphenous veins were tor- tuous, and as large as the little finger* The internal saphenous also receives the external pudic veins; and I have seen it joined by the obturator vein, which commenced by a common trunk with the epigastric. The communicating branches of the internal saphenous with the deep veins are very numerous, and should be studied in the foot, the leg, and the thigh. The origin of the internal saphenous vein gives off a branch, which communicates with the internal plantar vein. Along the leg several other branches exist, which establish a communication between the internal saphenous and the posterior tibial veins; these branches perforate the tibial origins of the soleus muscle. There is a very remarkable communication between the anterior tibial and internal saphenous veins in the middle third of the leg, by means of a branch which proceeds from the anterior tibial vein in front of the fibula, becomes subcutaneous, is reflected inwards and upwards between the fascia of the leg and the skin, and terminates in the internal saphenous. Again, an inferior, internal, articular vein enters the internal saphenous. Lastly, the anastomoses in the thigh, between the deep and the superficial veins, are less numerous than those in the leg; at most we only find two such describing loops with the concavity directed upwards. Valves. The number of the valves appears to me variable: I have counted six along the internal saphenous, but at other times I have not found more than two or four. There is a greater number of valves in this vein in the thigh than in the leg. The External or Posterior Saphenous Vein. The external saphenous vein (la peroneo-malleolaire, Chauss.; see figure of nerves of leg), smaller and much shorter than the internal saphenous, is a branch of the popliteal vein ; it forms a continuation of the external dorsal vein of the foot, which commences from the outer extremity of the dorsal venous arch; it passes behind the peroneo-tibial articulation, crossing it from before backwards; it receives as it runs outwards a great ntmiber of branches, the chief of which come from the external plantar region; also an external calcaneal vein, which is sometimes of considerable size, and comes from the outer side of the OS calcis; the vein then runs along the outer border of the tendo AchiUis, and crosses it at a very acute angle, to reach the middle line of the posterior as- pect of the leg: commencing at this point, it passes directly upwards, crosses the internal popliteal nerve, and terminates in the popliteal vein between the internal and external popliteal nerves, between the two heads of the gastro- cnemius, and by the side of the internal inferior articular vein. In some subjects the external saphenous, at the moment when it bends to dip into the popliteal space, gives off an ascending vein, which runs along the posterior border of the semi-membranosus muscle, as high as the upper third of the thigh, where it then turns forwards to open into the internal saphenous, or one of the branches of that vein, inimediately below its opening into the fe- moral. Relations. The external saphenous vein is covered by the superficial fascia, which separates it from the skin, and it covers the external saphenous nerve, from which it is separated by a layer of fascia ; it crosses this nerve twice, being at first situated to the inner side, then to the outer side, and again on the inner side of the nerve. The external saphenous vein communicates with the deep veins only, behind the external malleolus, and upon the dorsum of the foot. This vein has only two valves, one of which is situated immediately before its opening into the popliteal vein. * Anat. Path, liv.xviii.