1107 THE PATHETIC NERVES. H H 3 Function. The common motor nerve supplies all the muscles of the eye, excepting the superior oblique and the external rectus. It is remarkably large, and is proportioned to the activity and frequency of contraction m these muscles. That the muscular nerves do not terminate in loops or arches may be well seen in these muscles. The Fourth Pair, or the Pathetic Nerves. The pathetic nerve i'^,figs. 298. 301.) is remarkable for its extreme slender- ness, for its origin upon the side of the valve of Vieussens, for the length of its cranial portion, and for its -winding course around the peduncle of the cerebrum; it enters (4, fig. 296.) an opening in the dura mater upon the an- terior extremity of the inner or concave border of the tentorium cerebelli, on the outer side of the common motor nerve ; it runs in the substance of the external wall of the cavernous sinus, to the outer side and a little below the level of the common motor nerve (3), and directly above the ophthalmic division (a) of the fifth, to which it sends off a filament, and then, running along the upper surface of that nerve, communicates with it by several twigs ; it then enters the orbit together with the frontal nerve, the principal branch of the ophthalmic, through the widest part of the sphenoidal fissure, passes inwards and forwards, leaves the frontal nerve, crosses obliquely over the superior branch of the common motor nerve and the back part of the levator palpebrse superioris and superior rectus of the eye, to reach the superior ob- lique, and, having previously ramified, enters the upper border of that muscle. During its course in the orbit, this nerve, like the frontal branch of the oph- thalmic, is in contact with the periosteum. The union of the ophthalmic branch and the pathetic nerve is so intimate that it has been imagined that the lachrymal nerve is always derived entirely from the pathetic, and not from the ophthalmic itself. But a careful dissection shows that this is generally incorrect. However, I have found the pathetic nerve in several subjects giving off a branch which united with another from the ophthalmic nerve to constitute the lachrymal nerve. This anastomosis took place at the bottom of the orbit. Another and well-founded view regards the pathetic nerve and the ophthalmic branch of Willis as forming a single nerve ; in fact, in certain subjects they interlace so intimately, that it is impossible to separate them. The branch for the tentorium cerebelli. The pathetic nerve, while still con- tained in the substance of the external wall of the cavernous sinus, gives off a branch which runs backwards in the substance of the tentorixmi cerebelli, and may be traced as far as the lateral sinus, near which it divides into two or three filaments. In several subjects I found that the branch for the tentorium was formed by a twig which arose from the ophthalmic nerve, became applied to the pathetic nerve, then diverged from it, and passed backwards in the sub- stance of the tentorium. It appears, then, that the nerve of the tentorium has a retrograde course.* Function. The fourth pair of nerves is intended for the superior oblique muscle only of the eye. It has been supposed that this muscle has a special nerve to enable it to express certain mental emotions, and especially love and pity ; but, as Soemmerring remarks, it exists in all ihammalia, in birds, and even in fishes. Camper states that the vital functions of the pathetic survive those of the other nerves, and that this circumstance influences the direction of the eyes in dying persons. the internal rectus, and the other from the branch for the inferior oblique. I have seen the branch for the inferior oblique give off a supernumerary branch to the inferior rectus. Lastlv sometimes the branches for the inferior ohfique and inferior rectus arc united, so that the in- ferior division of the third nerve was subdivided into two branches only frl,'*th"''i'l>i"" described the branch (/, flg-W6.) for the tentorium cerebelli, which is derived from the fifth nervr, and not that which comes from the pathetic. uenvea