ANGEIOLOGY. t^TedtfoTtCr'"^''^^ "^"^''^^^^''''''' -^•'^^ The temma/maitoiJimncA of the posterior auricular passes upwards and backwards between the mastoid process and the skin, and subdivides into two subcutaneous ramuscuh : one horizontal, which passes inwards along the oc- cipital attachment of the sterno-mastoid and splenius; the other ascending which continues m the original course of the vessel, and is lost in the skin upon the outer margin of the occipitalis muscle. The terminal auricular branch almost always divides into two : a. superior and an inferior. The superior branch runs along the anterior border of the mastoid process, ramifies upon the upjper half of the internal surface of the pinna, and turns round its free margin, so as to reach the external surface. The inferior branch passes behind the additory meatus, suppUes the lobule of the ear, in- sinuates itself into the fissure in the cartUage, between the helix and concha and thus gains the external surface of the pinna, upon which it passes up- wards in the furrow between the helix and antihelix. It terminates by anas- tomosing with the superior branch. I have seen the auricular artery of great size, to supply the place of the pos- terior branch of the superficial temporal. TTie Parotid Arteries. Whilst passing through the parotid gland, the external carotid gives off four or five large branches to that organ, which deserve special descrip- tion. They arise from the carotid at right angles, cross the ramus of the lower jaw also at right angles, and divide into a great number of ramifications, most of which are lost in the substance of the gland; the remainder are dis- tributed to the skin and muscles. One or more of these branches pass between the parotid gland and the masseter muscle, parallel to the transversalis faciei artery, and reach as far as the zygomaticus major ; others gain the angle of the jaw, and are lost in the supra-hyoid region. The Inferior or Ascending Phari/ngeal, or Pliaryngo-meningeal Artery. Dissection, Make the section necessary for examining the pharynx (see p. 283.) : the steps required for this purpose render it advisable that the study of this artery should be postponed until after that of the internal maxillary. The ascending pharyngeal is the smallest branch of the external carotid; it arises from the inner side of that artery opposite the lingual. I have seen it arise from the occipital. Not unfrequently it is given olf either from the angle of bifurcation of the common carotid, or from the internal carotid; and in this last case there is almost always a very small pharyngeal branch arising from the external carotid, and passing transversely inwards to the pharynx. It varies in size to a certain degree, and, as it appears to me, in an inverse ratio to that of the palatine branch of the facial. I have seen it almost as large as the occipital. Immediately after its commencement the ascending pharyngeal passes verti- cally upwards, at first between the external and internal carotid, and then behind the internal carotid, with which latter vessel it is found in the trian- gular interval between the pharynx and the internal pterygoid muscle ; it then almost immediately divides into two branches, a meningeal and a pharyngeal. Before dividing, it gives off an inferior pharyngeal branch, which passes transversely inwards, and subdivides into ascending and descending branches, the latter of which anastomose on the pharynx with some twigs of the superior thyroid. The meningeal branch, which is situated behind the internal carotid, passes vertically upwards, gives off twigs to the superior cervical ganglion of the