ANGEIOLOGY. 776 diploic veins with those of the dura mater, and with the sinuses and cerebral veins, may be shown by perforating with a pin, in a young subject, the very thin and brittle external bony table which covers one of the numerous veins of the diploe, and then inserting into the orifice the fine point of a mercurial in- jecting apparatus: the mercury will fill the diploic veins, and will pass into the sinuses, the veins of the dura mater, and the cerebral veins. The Straight Sinus. The stright sinus (c,fig. 220.) occupies the base of the falx cerebri, coitc- sponding with the line of junction of the falx with the tentorium cerebelli. _ The straight sinus is therefore single and situated in the median line ; it is directed somewhat obliquely backwards and downwards, and it opens into the confluence of the sinuses, or torcular Herophili (n), by one or sometimes two orifices, according to the presence or absence of a vertical band across its termination. It is three sided, and a section of it represents an isosceles triangle (c,Jig. 221.), having its base turned downwards. This sinus increases in size as it proceeds backwards. The straight sinus receives by its anterior extremity the inferior longitudinal vein or sinus, the two great ventricular veins or vence Galeni, the inferior me- dian cerebral veins, and the superior median cerebellar vein. The inferior longitudinal vein {d), which is generally but incorrectly de- scribed as the inferior longitudinal sinus, may be regarded as an ordinary vein inclosed within the posterior half of the free margin of the falx cerebri. This vein increases in size from before backwards, and enters directly into the straight sinus. It sometimes bifurcates before its termination, and then the lower branch of the bifurcation opens into the anterior extremity of the straight sinus, and the upper describes a decided curve, and enters at the middle of that sinus. The inferior longitudinal vein receives the proper veins of the falx cerebri. It seldom receives any vein belonging to the brain itself. The ventricular veins, or vena Galeni (e), are two in number, one proceeding from the left, and one from the right lateral ventricle. Each of them is formed by the union of two branches, viz. the choroid vein and the vein of the corpus striatum. The choroid vein runs along the whole length of the outer border of the choroid plexus, in a direction from behind forwards. During this course it receives the vein from the hippocampus major, one from the fornix, and one from the corpus callosum, and having reached the anterior extremity of the choroid plexus, it turns back again within the substance of the plexus, and unites with the vein of the corpus striatum. The vein of the corpus striatum is much smaller than the preceding; it com- mences behind in the furrow between the corpus striatum and the thalamus opticus, traverses the whole length of that furrow, covered by the tajnia semi- circularls, receives, during its course, a great number of small veins from the corpus striatum and thalamus opticus, and having arrived behind the anterior pillar of the fornix unites with the choroid vein to form one of the venas Galeni. The two vena Galeni proceed parallel with each other, and horizontally backwards beneath the velum interpositum, pass out from the brain beneath the corpus callosum, and immediately enter the straight sinus below the opening of the inferior longitudinal vein without crossing each other, as is stated by some anatomists. Not unfrequently we find an anterior and superior cerebellar vein opening into the venas Galeni, as the latter enter the straight sinus. The inferior median cerebral veins are very large. One is anterior, and com- mences upon the fore part of the lower surface of the cerebrum, and turns round its corresponding crus ; whilst the other, which is posterior, arises upon