NEUROLOGY. lOlC THE NERVES. OR THE PERIPHERAL PORTION OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. Generd remarks. — History and classification. — Origin, or central extremity. — Different kinds. — Course, plexuses, and anastomoses. — Direction, relations, and mode of division. — Termination. — Nervous ganglia, and the great sijm- pathetic system. — Connexions of the ganglia with each other, and with the spinal nerves. — Structure of nerves. — Structure of ganglia. —Preparation of nerves. General Remarks. The nerves which are concerned in the transmission of sensations and of mo- tor influence are white cords attached to the cerebro-spinal axis by one extre- mity (the central extremity), and distributed to the different organs by the other or peripheral extremity. They have a pearly-white aspect, like the tendons with which they were for some time confounded. Their surface is smooth, and presents a number of folds or zigzag marks, which are effaced by extension.* Lastly, if a nerve be cut across, it is seen to be composed of a certain number of cords, the divided ends of which project beyond the cut surface. By these characters, it will always be easy to distinguish a nerve from any other white tissue in the body. All the nerves are arranged in pairs: they differ from each other in their point of junction with the central portion of the nervous system; in their con- sistence ; in the place at which they emerge from the cranio-vertebral ca- vity ; in their distribution ; and in their functions. These points of difference have served as the foundations of the different classifications of the nerves proposed at various periods. History and Classification of the Nerves. The nerves, which had been at first confounded with the tendons and liga- ments under the name of white tissues, were distinguished from those parts by Herophilus and Galen. The subdivision of the nerves into the cerebral or cranial nerves which pass out of the foramina in the base of the skull, and the spinal or rachidian nerves which emerge from the intervertebral foramina, was so natural, that it suggested itself to the earliest anatomists who directed their attention to this system. The cranial nerves alone have presented some difficulties in their study and their classification. Marinus, whose work has been long regarded as classical, admitted only seven pairs of cranial nerves, among which neither the olfactory nor the pathetic were included. Achillini was the first who described the latter as a special nerve; and it was Massa who classed the olfactory ribbon among the nerves. Willis divided the cra- nial nerves (and his division is still adopted) into ten pairs, including the sub-occipital nerve. He also, like his predecessors, admitted thirty pairs of spinal nerves, and regarded the great sympathetic as forming the forty-first pair. According to WUlis, the olfactory nerves form the first cranial pair; the optic nerves the second ; the common motor nerves of the eyes, the third; the pathetic nerves, the fourth ; the trigeminal nerves, the fifth ; the external motor nerves, the sixth ; the facial and auditory nerves together, the seventh ; the pneumogastric, glosso-pharyngeal, and spinal accessory, the eighth; the hypoglossal nerves, the ninth; and the sub-occipital nerves, the tenth. This last pair, which was with so much reason classed by Haller among the spinal nerves, has been alternately and arbitrarily removed from one to the * [These zigzag folds led some anatomists to believe that the nerves have a sinuous arrange- ment. Monro has even commemorated this anatomical error by a figure : the sinuous appear- ance common to the nerves and tendons disappears in both by stretching.