962 NEUROLOGY. compare the yellow layer of the cerebellum to the yellow folded membrane of the olivary bodies.* A question here arises: What is the proportion between the grey and the white matter ? The most superficial examination of the cerebellum will show that the grey matter predominates; and this can be clearly demonstrated by macerating the cerebellum for several days. The grey matter, which is more easily decomposed, becomes converted into a pulp, and the remaining nucleus of white substance scarcely represents a third, either of the weight or bulk of the cerebellum. We shall now proceed to describe the appearance of vertical and horizontal sections of the cerebellum. Vertical Sections. Upon longitudinal vertical sections of the cerebellum, the grey and white sub- stances present a very elegant arrangement, known by the picturesque name of the arbor vita ; a title derived either from the importance which has been at- tached to this structure, or from its resemblance in figure to the foliage of the the tree so called. Upon a section, made through the median line, the arbor vita of the middle lobe (w,fig. 282.) is seen ; and upon one made on either side, the arbor vitce of the lateral lobes. The arbor vitce of the median lobe consists of a central nucleus of white sub- stance, of a triangular form, from which two principal branches proceed ; one inferior, which is distributed to the whole of the inferior vermis and the back part of the median lobe ; the other superior, which passes into the whole of the superior vermis. These two branches subdivide into six others, which vary in direction, length, and thickness, and are themselves subdivided into still smaller branches, and these again into the smallest ramifications. A slight enlargement of the white substance is always observed opposite the points of division. A very thin yellowish layer, and outside this a layer of grey matter, about a line in thickness, covers each of the ramifications of the white substance, and thus forms the lamellae, laminaj, and segments of the median lobe. This section enables us to prove the existence of the middle lobe of the cerebellum and the continuity of the superior and inferior vermis ; it also shows the general form of the middle lobe, which is rotate, or wheel-shaped (the anterior extremity of the inferior vermis, i. e. the nodule, comes into contact with the valve of Vieussens); the number and arrangement of the segments, laminae, and lamellae of the cerebellum; and, lastly, the nature of the valve of Vieussens, which is nothing more than the uppermost subdivision of the central nucleus, and may be regarded as one half of a lamella of the cerebellum. The arbor vitce of the lateral lobes. A vertical section, from the middle peduncles of the cerebellum towards the circumference, displays the arbor ■vife of the lateral lobes. In the centre of each lobe is seen a white central nucleus, from which fifteen or sixteen principal branches are given off to form the nuclei of a corresponding number of the segments. These branches are subdivided into secondary branches, and those into the ultimate ramifications. A yellowish layer covers each of these successive divisions, and upon that a grey layer, about a line in thickness, is accurately moulded. Upon sections of this kind it is easily seen that the segments of the cere- bellum are very unequal in size, in direction, and in their manner of division ; » Rolando (Osservasioni suV Cerveletto, p. 187. 1823) appears to rae to have been the first to establish the fact of the existence of three substances — the medoUare, the cmereo rossigna, and the cinerca estema e corticate.