D D 2 THE SUPERFICIAL CERVICAL NERVE. 104-1 and by a great number of lymphatic glands : it is also covered by an aponeu- rotic lamina, which adheres to it intimately, and is prolonged upon the nerves which emanate from it. . j j „ „ :„ After the example of Bichat, this plexus may be regarded as a centre m which the anterior branches of the four superior cervical nerves terminate, and from which a great number of branches proceed. This plexus is by no means inextricable; it is always easy todetermme the origin of the branches which come from it. ^ • i ■ ui\ These branches consist of one anterior branch, the superficial cervical {k) ; ot ascending branches, viz. the great mastoid (y), the small mastoid, and the great auricular (q); and of descending branches, subdivided mto the deep and the su- perficial • the deep ones consisting of the internal descending branch (before s), the phrenic nerve (I), and the branches for the trapezius, levator anguli scapula, and rhomboideus I the superficial descending branches are the supra-clavicular and the acromial («). , , According to their distribution, they may also be divided into muscular and cutaneous branches; the muscular consist of the internal descending, the phrenic, the branches for the trapezius, the levator anguli, and the rhom- boideus ; all the others are cutaneous, and are flattened like ribbons. The Anterior Branch. The Superficial Cervical Nerve. The superficial cervical nerve (superficialis colli; s,fig. 285.), which is often double, in consequence of dividing earlier than usual, is destined exclusively for the skin of the neck and lower part of the face (sous-mentonniere, Chauss.) and is formed by the anastomoses of the second and third cervical nerves; it emerges from the plexus opposite the middle of the neck, beneath the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid, around which it turns in the form of a loop, and then passes horizontally forwards between that muscle and the platysma, runs at right angles beneath the external jugular vein, and divides into two branches — one ascending and larger, the other descending; these two branches often form two distinct nerves. The descending branch passes downwards and inwards between the sterno-mastoid and the platysma, is reflected upwards so as to form a loop, having its con- cavity turned upwards, perforates the platysma, and then lies in contact with the skin beneath which it may be traced as far as opposite the os hyoides. One of its twigs, which appears to me to be constant, having reached the side of the median line, is reflected upwards in front of the anterior jugular vein, ascends vertically, and may be traced into the skin of the supra-hyoid region. The ascending branch, which sometimes arises by a common trunk with the auricular nerve, immediately divides into four or five very slender and slightly waving filaments, which, situated at first between the sterno-mastoid and the platysma, generally perforate the last-named muscle to become subcutaneous : two of these diverging filaments, which remain subjacent to the platysma, are very slender and run along the external jugular vein, one in front of and the other behind that vessel. All the other filaments pass upwards and inwards in contact with the skin, and subdivide into a great number of filaments which may be traced as far as