ANGEIOLOGY. it is double, or even triple. This pluraUty of hearts, instead of being an index 01 perfection, should be regarded as a subdivision, and less perfect condition ot the organ. We shaU see that man, as well as mammalia and birds has m reality two hearts united into one. Situation. The heart is situated at the junction of the upper third with the lower two thirds of the body; hence the upper parts of the system are more immediately under the influence'of this important organ.* The heart (I, Jig. 170.; o,fig. 171.) occupies the middle of the thoracic ca- vity ; It IS situated in the mediastinum, in front of the vertebral column, be- hind the sternum, which forms a kind of shield for it, and beyond which it projects on the left side; it is placed between the lungs, and above the diaphragm, by which it is separated from the abdominal viscera. It is retained in this situation by the pericardium {p p,fig. 170.), a fibro- serous covering, which is itself closely adherent to the diaphragm (x)'; by the pleurae {q q), which are reflected on each side of it, to form the parietes of the mediastinum; and lastly, by the great vessels which pass out or enter at its base These means of attachment are not such as to prevent the heart from un- dergoing remarkable changes of position, depending upon peculiar attitudes, upon shocks acting on the body, or upon diseases of the surrounding organs. Thus in a case of hydrothorax on the left side, the apex of the heart struck against the right side, and gave rise to the suspicion that the viscera were transposed. Size and weight. Neither the size nor the weight of the heart can be esti- mated with exactness, on account of the numerous individual varieties in both. It is very difficult to determine the limits in either the one or the other, be- tween a healthy and a morbid condition; and a heart which would be con- sidered normal in one individual, would be regarded as hypertrophied in another. The defects of the method proposed by Laennec, for obtaining an approx- imative estimate of the size of the heart, by comparing it with that of the closed hand of the same subject, afford sufficient evidence of the difficulty of arriving at an accurate result in this matter, f No organ in the body is more subject to enlargement than the heart; when caused by dilatation of the cavities it constitutes aneurism of the heart (dila- tation) ; when due to thickening of the parietes, it is termed hypertrophy. When enlargement occurs from both these causes, the heart acquires an enor- mous size, and has been called bullock's heart {hypertrophy with dilatation). The size of the heart may be estimated directly by ascertaining the quantity of water displaced by it, and by admeasurement; it may also be determined in an approximate manner by its weight, which bears a certain relation to the size. In making these estimates it is necessary to distinguish the size and weight dependent upon thickness of the parietes of the heart, from the increase oc- casioned by blood contained in its cavities. In order to obtain comparative re- sults upon this point, the heart must be weighed and measured both in its empty and its distended state. The average weight of the empty heart is from seven to eight ounces. Some atrophied hearts do not weigh more than two ounces : dilated and hypertrophied hearts, when empty, may weigh twenty-two ounces. The ordinary weight of the heart distended with tallow is twenty-four ounces. I have seen dilated hearts also filled with tallow, which weighed three pounds. As to the admeasurement, we shall apply it in succession to the ventricles and to the auricles. Form, direction, and divisions. The heart has the form of a flattened cone, the axis of which is directed obliquely from above downwards, fi-om the right » The distance from the heart to the brain varies in different individuals, according to the length of the thorax and the neck. This difference may amount to two inches, and may exer- cise some influence upon the cerebral circulation. In consequence of this observation, extreme shortness of the neck has been regarded as a predisposing cause of apoplexy. t The large hand of a workman does not imply the existence of a larger heart, than the small hand of a female, or of a man exempt from manual labour.