NEUROLOGY. 874 Fig. 242. each other before they enter the substance of the ciUary circle : by its lesspr or inner border which corresponds to the iris (0, it adheres intimately to the circumference of the cornea, exactly where that membrane is continuous with the sclerotic (at a a, fig. 241.). The older anatomists called this structure the ciliary ligament. From the great number of the nerves which enter the ciUary circle, from its greyish colour, and its pulpy aspect, modem anatomists have regarded it as a nervous ganglion (annulus gangliformis, or annular ganglion ooemmerring). ° Some anatomists describe, under the name of the ciUary canal or the canal ofFontana, a very small and extremely narrow circular space {vv,fig. 241.) which is formed between the ciliary circle, the cornea, and the sclerotic. This space can be filled with injection, and it is not certain that it is not the cavity of a bloodvessel. The ciliary processes and the ciliary body. If the back part of the sclerotic, choroid, and retina be cut away, or even if the globe of the eye be merely di- vided into an anterior and posterior half by a circular incision, on looking into the anterior half a perfectly regular radiated disc (,d,fig. 241.; ab,fig. 243.) will be seen around the crystalline lens. This disc, which has been very correctly compared to a radiated flower, is called the ciliary body, or corona ciliaris; each of the rays is called a ciliary process or ray (rayon sous-irien, Chaussier). If, after a correct idea Anterior view. of the arrangement of this radiated disc has been obtained, the choroid coat be separated from the hu- mours of the eye, it will be found that there are two perfectly distinct discs: Fig. o'^^ of these remains attached to the choroid coat, and constitutes the ciliary disc or ciliary body of the choroid (a b, fig. 243.) ; the Other remains attached to the vi- treous body and to the crystalline lens, and is the ciliary zone of Zinn, which may be termed, after M. Ribes, the ciliary processes of the vitreous body (ab, fig. 248.). We shall now describe the ciliary processes of the choroid coat only, leaving the ciliary processes of the vitreous body to be described together with that part of the eye. The cUiary processes of the choroid coat, so well described by Zina, who enumerates sixty of them, are regarded as so many folds of the internal layer of the choroid. They may be divided into great and small; the latter occupying the intervals between the former. They all increase in size (from b to a, fig. 243.) as they approach the outer border of the iris, behind which they are prolonged without adhering to it, and are then bent forwards upon themselves to be attached to that border. These ciliary processes, the sides of which are turned towards each other, have therefore a posterior adherent or choroid portion (i), and an anterior free or iridian portion (a). The free portion {ee,fig. 241; a, fig. 244.) floats among the humoui's of the eye like a fringe ; the slightest agitation of the vessel or of ^ig. 244. the liquid in which the ciliary processes are contained is immediately communicated to this free portion of the corona ciliaris. The ciliary body or disc, which is formed by the union of all the ciliary processes or rays, is in relation behind with the vitreous body (u in the centre, fig. 241.), and ad- vances ie,fig. 241.; a, fig. 244., in which the iris is re- moved) over the circumference of the crystalline lens. It is not simply in contact with the vitreous body, but is Anterior view-iris re- rather firmly adherent to it; and we shall afterwards moved. Posterior or iiiterual view.