THE EIGHTH PAIR OF NERVES. 1129 Function. The facial is a nerve of motion. This fact may be deduced from its anatomical description no less than from physiological experiments and the effects of disease. The Portio Mollis or the Auditory Nerve. The auditonj nerve (J, figs. 296. 301.), which we have already traced as far as the internal auditory meatus, enters that canal with the facial nerve, for which it forms a groove, and divides into two cords, which remain distinct throughout the whole extent of the passage, but continue in contact with each other, and at length pass through the foramina in the cribriform plate already described as existing at the bottom of the meatus (see Osteology). In order to understand the further distribution of the auditory nerve, the cribriform plate of the auditory meatus must be examined with the same at- tention as was devoted by Scarpa to the cribriform plate of the ethmoid, with which it has so many analogies. As the cribriform plate of the ethmoid pre- sents a particular fissure for the passage of the ethmoidal branch of the ophthalmic nerve, so the cribriform plate of the internal auditory meatus pre- sents a special opening for the passage of the facial nerve; and again, the auditory like the olfactory nerve seems as if it were pressed through the fora- mina of the cribriform plate to enter the internal ear. Of the two terminal branches of the auditory nerve, the anterior is intended for the cochlea, the posterior for the vestibule and semicircular canals. The cochlear branch turns spirally, like that part of the bottom of the audi- tory meatus to which it belongs, and which is called the tractus spiralis. It then turns upon itself, as observed by Valsalva, and presents somewhat of a ganglionic appearance. From this sort of enlargement the cochlear filaments proceed; those which belong to the first turn of the cochlea run along the surface of the modiolus ; the others enter the canals of the modiolus, and are distributed on the second and the succeeding half turn at the summit of the cochlea. I have already described the very regular manner in which these filaments spread upon the spiral septum, the subdivision of each of them into two or three filaments which anastomose with each other like the ciliary nerves, and the gradual diminution in the length of these filaments from the base to the apex of the cochlea, so that if we suppose the spiral septum spread out, it might be compared to a harpsichord, the longest strings of which would be represented by the filaments at the base of the triangle formed by the septum, and the shortest by those at its apex (see Internal Ear, p. 907.). The vestibular branch divides into three parts, the largest of which enters the utricle and the ampulla of the superior vertical and horizontal mem- branous canals, the middle-sized branch passes to the saccubis, and the smallest branch to the ampulla of the posterior or inferior vertical semicircular canal. Function. The auditory nerve is exclusively the nerve of hearing. The Eighth Pair of Nerves. The First Portion or Glosso-pharyngeal Nerve. Dissection. Remove by a triangular section the posterior half of the border of the foramen lacerum posterius ; carefully detach the jugular vein, in front of which the nerves are situated, examine the connexions of the glosso-pha- ryngeal with the pneumogastric and spinal accessory nerves. The glosso-pharynrjeal nerve (phanjngo-glossal), the anterior portion of the eighth nerve (8, figs. 296. 301.), the ninth nerve of some authors, is intended for the pharynx and the tongue. Having arisen from the restiform body above and on a line with the pneumo- gastric,* by a series of roots which are continuous with the roots of that » Several modern physiologists, believing the glosso-pharyngeal to be a mixed nerve, sensorv m Its lingual portion, and motor in its pharyngeal, have, therefore, supposed it to have two