ANGEIOLOGY. 798 come exceedingly developed in chronic inflammation of the bladder; it re- ceives the superficial veins of the penis, and gives off the vesical veins. This plexus, which communicates with the hiemorrhoidal plexus behind, is supported by a very thick fibrous layer, which is continuous with the pelvic fascia, and which Umits the degree of dUatation of the veins of the plexus in the same way as the dura mater limits the dilatation of the sinuses contained between its layers. The veins and plexuses of the penis. The veins of the penis are divided into a superficial and deep set, the former representing the subcutaneous veins of the limbs. They commence in the skin of the prepuce, and ran backwards along the upper and lower surfaces of that organ. The superior are called the dorsal veins of the penis; they communicate freely with each other by large branches; most of them run beneath the arch of the pubes, between it and the corpus cavernosum, passing through some openings or fibrous canals in the sub-pubic ligament, which have the effect of keeping the veins always open ; they end by assisting in the formation of the prostatic plexus. These veins communi- cate freely with the deep veins, especially opposite the junction of the two crura of the corpus cavernosum: this communication is proved by the fact that the superficial vessels are always filled when the injection is thrown into the deep veins. The areolar tissue of the corpus cavernosum and that of the corpus spon- giosum may be regarded as composed of a venous network or plexus at its maximum of development. Branches proceed from this plexus, which cor- respond to the divisions of the internal pudic artery, and follow the same course. These veins, and the vesico-prostatic plexuses, are liable to become varicose ; hard earthy concretions, called phlebolites, are also frequently found in them. The Pelvic Veins and Plexuses in the Female, The vesical, or vesico-wethral plexus of the female is less developed than that of the male, on account of the absence of veins corresponding to the super- ficial veins of the penis, which are represented by a few branches from the labia majora. This plexus communicates with the veins of the clitoris, and also very freely with the vaginal plexus behind. The vaginal plexus is a vascular network, extremely well developed, espe- cially opposite the orifice of the vulva, which is entirely surrounded by it with several series of circular anastomosing veins: it communicates with the vesical plexus in front, and with the hsemorrhoidal plexus behind; so that all the plexuses in the pelvis are involved in the state of turgescence, which accom- panies the phenomenon of erection in the female. The radicles of this vaginal plexus commence in the mucous membrane of the vagina, and especially in the erectile tissue surrounding the orifice of that canal; some large veins arise in particular from the bulb of the vagina, forming a trae erectile apparatus, which we have already described. (See Splanchnology, p. 625.) The uterine plexus. The veins contained in the substance of the walls of the uterus do not present any trace of the tortuous arrangement of the cor- responding arteries. In order to obtain a satisfactoiy idea of them, they should be studied in a gravid uterus. The uterine veins, like the uterine ar- teries, are then found along the sides and upper angles of the organ ; opening into these veins are found larger venous canals, which run from side to side through the substance of the uterus, and anastomose frequently with each other. These venous canals are called the uterine sinuses, on account of their great size during gestation, and from the dilatations presented by them at the confluence of several secondary veins: they are also entitled to be so named from their structui-e, which has some analogy with that of the sinuses of the dura mater, inasmuch as only the lining membrane of the veins is pro- longed into them ; their outer coat is formed by the proper tissue of the uterus.