THE POSTERIOR INTRASPINAL VEINS. 809 Breschet, I believe to depend upon imperfect injections, which succeed so difFerentl'y in different subjects. , ^ . The anterior longitudinal veins or plexuses cannot be regarded as sinuses, for they are not contained in a fibrous sheath, like the veins of the dura mater, nor are they reduced merely to the lining membrane of the veins. Notv/i'thstanding their extreme tenuity, we can recognise an external coat, and the posterior common ligament does not cover them behind. Nor is the term sinus more applicable to the transverse plexuses, although they are situated between the bodies of the vertebrae and the posterior common ligament, for the ligament merely covers them without forming a sheath for them. The proper veins of the bodies of the vertebra. The foramina upon the posterior surface of the body of each vertebra, which are generally proportioned to the size of the vertebra, are principally intended for the proper veins of the bodies of their bones : the arteries are much smaller, and though they enter by the same openings, they occupy but a smaU part of their areas. These veins belong to that system of venous canals found in the substance of bones, which we have already noticed as existing in the bones of the cranium. Their chief varieties have been correctly described and delineated by M, Bres- chet. These venous canals, which are more developed in the old than in young subjects, occupy the centre of the body of the vertebra,, and always run parallel to the upper and lower surfaces of the bone : they arise from all parts of the circumference of the vertebra, communicating with the veins which enter by the foramina on its anterior surface, and converge towards the principal foramen, or foramina, upon its posterior aspect. They frequently enter a semi- circular canal, which has its convexity directed forwards, and gives off from its concavity a venous canal, which opens directly into the transverse plexus : the lateral veins of the body of the vertebra open into the extremities of this semicircular canal; whilst within the venous canals of the vertebrae the veins are reduced to their lining membrane, like the veins in the canals of the cranial bones. The transverse plexuses therefore collect the blood from the bodies of the vertebrae, and transmit it to the anterior longitudinal plexuses. The Posterior Intraspinal Veins or Plexuses, and the Posterior and Lateral Transverse Plexuses. The posterior intraspinal plexuses, much smaller than the anterior, are situ- ated one on each side between the vertebral laminae and ligamenta subflava behind, and the dura mater in front. These veins are rarely injected along the whole length of the spine, and hence they sometimes appear to exist only in the dorsal region. They communicate opposite each vertebra, by means o{ posterior transverse plexuses, or by transverse veins. They commu- nicate with the anterior longitudinal plexuses by small lateral transverse plex- uses, which, pass from behind forwards. It follows, therefore, that the veins within the spine, but external to the coverings of the cord, consist of four longitudinal plexuses, all of which are connected by a transverse circular plexus opposite each vertebra. A strict analogy may be said to exist between the sinuses of the cranium and the intraspinal plexuses; an analogy which did not escape the notice of the ancients, as the common application of the term sinus by them to the veins of the cranium and to those of the spine would seem to indicate. Thus, in the cranium we find certain longitudinal sinuses, that is, those which run from before backwards, viz. the superior lon- gitudinal sinus, the straight sinus, and the posterior occipital sinuses ; also, the superior and infenor petrosal sinuses, the cavernous sinuses, and the right and left lateral sinuses. The former set represent the posterior pTeSr P ' correspond to the anterior intraspinal In the cranium we also find certain transverse sinuses, viz. the basilar or