1077 F F 4. A^NTERIOR BRANCHES OF SACRAL NERVES. THE ANTERIOR BRANCHES OF THE SACRAL NERVES. Dissecaon.-Enumeration.—The Sacral Plexus. - Collateral Branches, viz. the visceral nerves —the muscular nerves —the inferior hamorrhoidal — the internal pudic and its branches —the superior gluteal nerve —the inferior qluteal or lesser sciatic nerve — the nerves for the pyramidalis, quadratus femoris and gemelli.— Terminal Branch of the Sacral Plexus or the Great Sciatic Nerve. —The external popliteal and its branches —the peroneal sa- phenous, cutaneous, and muscular branches —the musculo-cutaneous — the anterior tibial. — The internal popliteal and its branches — the tibial or external saphenous — muscular and articular branches — the internal plan- tar—the external plantar. —Summary of the nerves of the lower extremity.— Comparison of the nerves of the upper with those of the lower extremity. Dissection. Make an antero-posterior section of the pelvis, as in dissecting the internal iliac artery. The anterior branches of the sacral nerves (26 to 31,^g^. 268.), which are six in number, communicate with the sacral ganglia of the sympathetic, after they have em*ged from the sacral foramina, and present the following ar- rangement : — The first nerve {\,fig. 290.), which is very large, passes obliquely downwards and outwards, in front of the pyriformis, and is joined at a very acute angle by the lumbo-sacral nerve (i) to assist in the formation of the sacral plexus. The second nerve, which is as large as the preceding, passes much more obliquely downwards and outwards, and immediately enters the sacral plexus. The third nerve (3), which is scarcely one fourth as large as the second, passes more horizontally outwards to enter the sacral plexus. A considerable interval, in which is a large part of the pyriformis, separates it from the second nerve. A filament stretched in front of this muscle passes from the second to the third sacral nerve. The fourth nerve (4), which is only one third the size of the third, is divided and distributed in the following manner—one of its divisions assists in forming the sacral plexus; it gives off several visceral branches, which enter the hypogastric plexus; it communicates with the fifth sacral nerve by another division; it gives off one or two branches to the coccygeus muscle; and, lastly, it gives a cutaneous coccygeal branch, which runs along the border of the sacrum, penetrates the great sacro-sciatic ligament, crosses that ligament very ob- liquely, and turns round its lower edge, perforates the coccygeal attachments of the glutaeus maximus, passes very obliquely through the muscle, gives branches to it, and then ends in the integuments. The fifth and sixth nerves, which have no connexion with the sacral plexus, are extremely small; the fifth is not more than half the size of the fourth;, the sixth is so very slender a filament, that it has often escaped the notice of anatomists, and hence the incorrect but prevalent opinion, that there fre- quently exist only five sacral nerves. The^/cA nerve, at its exit from the anterior sacral foramen, divides into an ascending branch, which communicates with the fourth, and a descending branch, which passes directly downwards to anastomose with the sixth, of which it appears to form the ascending branch. ^. The sixth nerve consists of a mere filament, which divides, while still con- tained within the sacral foramen, into an ascending or^nastomotic branch, which is merely the descending branch of the fifth ; s/Rescending or inferior coccygeal branch, which passes vertically downwards along the coccyx in the substance of the sacro-sciatic ligament, and is distributed to the skin ; and certain external branches, which perforate the sacro-sciatic ligament, and ter- minate in the glutaeus maximus.