THE POSTERIOR NASAL NERVES. 1115 palatine canal, and even sometimes whilst yet within that canal, it sends off a staphylme branch, which spreads into several filaments, all of which run back- wards in the soft palate, and divide into superior filaments distributed to the mucous membrane on the nasal surface, and inferior which run beneath the mucous membrane on the buccal surface of the soft palate. Of the two terminal branches of the anterior palatine nerve, both of which occupy the hard palate, the external runs near the alveolar border, and the internal near the median Une ; they enter into the midst of the glandular layer of the palate and are ultimately distributed to the glands, to the mucous membrane of the hard pa- late, and to the gums. . . • i i The posterior [middle] palatine nerve, the next m size, enters a special canal: on escaping from which it passes backwards, beneath the mucous membrane of the nasal surface of the soft palate to which it is distributed. The same is the case with the intermediate [posterior] or small palatine nerve, which is extremely slender. I have seen a palatine nerve enter the maxillary sinus, run beneath its lining membrane, pass vertically through the maxillary tuberosity behind the last molar tooth, and ramify upon the hard palate. The Spheno-palatine or Posterior Nasal Nerves. Dissection. Make a vertical section of a head, previously macerated in dilute nitric acid, strip off the pituitary membrane lying upon the septum and the turbinated bones, and examine the nerves from the internal or deep surface of tbat membrane. The spheno-palatine nerves are very slender ; they enter the corresponding nasal fossae through the spheno-palatine foramen, and have been traced by Scarpa with his customary exactness. They are all situated in the pituitary membrane, or rather, between the periosteum and the mucous membrane, and cannot be readily seen untU this fibro-mucous membrane has been removed from the bones which it covers ; the nervous filaments are then seen through the semi-transparent fibrous layer. For this purpose, preparations macerated in diluted nitric acid are indispensable. The spheno-palatine nerves are dis- tributed to the septum nasi and the external wall of the corresponding nasal fossa; they are divided into internal and external. There is only one internal spheno-palatine nerve, viz. the nerve of the septui" nasi, or.the naso-palatine of Scarpa {b,fig. 297.); it passes inwards, in front oi the sphenoidal sinus, and below the orifice of that sinus, to gain the septum nasi; it is then directed at first almost vertically downwards, but afterwards almost horizontally forwards, as far as the superior orifice of the anterior palatine canal, which it enters, and then passes into a special canal, quite distinct from the anterior palatine canal, and parallel to the one for the naso-palatine nerve of the opposite side. According to M. Hippolyte Cloquet, the two naso-pa- latine nerves terminate in the upper part of a ganglion, which he calls the tiaso- palatine, and do not reach the mouth ; but in some researches which I have made on the subject, I have failed in detecting this ganglion.* The nerves can be distinctly seen to enter the mucous membrane of the hard palate behind the incisor teeth, and upon that prominence of the mucous membrane against which the point of the tongue is so often applied. I have never seen any anastomoses either between the two naso-palatine nerves, or between these and the anterior palatine nerves. Anatomists are not agreed as to whether the naso-palatine nerve gives off any filaments upon the septum. I have failed in detecting any ramification of the nerve in a great number of preparations, in which the pituitary mem- » I find that it is stated by Arnold, whom I have so often quoted, because his worlts are above all praise for their rigorous accuracy, that the spheno-palatine ganglion does not exist: and he observes with reason, that the suljjoined description of M. Hippolyte Cloquet is very imperfect It consists of a small reddish, fungous mass, rather hard, as if fibro-cartilaginolis and sur rounded by adipose cellular tissue." ^"■"laBniuuB, ana sur-