COMMON CHARACTERS. 1031 quired to expose the origins of the whole series of spinal nerves, has appeared to me a sufficient reason for including them all in one common description. Such a plan, the object of which is to study analogous parts by comparison, is infinitely preferable to one in which the origin of each pair of nerves is sepa- rately described. . , , r /zt * The spinal nerves arise from the spmal cord by a double row of filaments, or by two series of roots. These roots are distinguished into the anterior (a a fig 267 ) which come off from each side of the anterior surface of the cord and the posterior (b b), which come off also from each side of the posterior surface. The latter are also named the ganglionic roots, because they are more partictdarly connected with the spinal nervous ganglia (b b). The ligamentum denticulatum (e c) is situated between these two series of roots. Immediately after leaving the cord, both the anterior and posterior roots are collected into a number of groups corresponding to the number of the spinal nerves; the nervous cords of which each group consists converge to- wards each other; the superior cords descending to meet the inferior, which is soon accomplished from the latter being less oblique in their direction. It follows, therefore, that the filaments of each root, situated one above the other, widely separated from each other on the inside, and approximated on the out- side, represent a triangle, the general inclination of which to the axis of the cord, varies in each particular region. Not imfrequently the filaments, espe- cially those of the anterior roots, form two secondary groups. As they are about to enter the separate fibrous canal formed for them by the dura mater, the fibres of each of the anterior roots, and also those of each posterior root, are collected into a flattened cord. There is one fibrous canal for each cord of the anterior roots, and another for each cord of the posterior roots. The arachnoid membrane, which forms a common funnel-shaped sheath for both roots of each spinal nerve, is reflected from them at the points where they enter the fibrous canals of the dura mater, to which the nervous cords are rather firmly attached. Although the corresponding groups of anterior and posterior roots approach each other to pass through the fibrous canals of the dura mater, there is never the slightest communication between them. It is curious to see the long and numerous cords or filaments which constitute the cauda equina running pa- rallel to each other without any anastomoses ; whilst as soon as they emerge from the spinal canal, their communications are almost continual. Communications between the filaments of the same series, whether anterior or posterior, are not rare ; they take place in several different ways; thus, sometimes two filaments belonging to the same nerve unite, sometimes the filaments of two different nerves are combined, and at others again a filament intermediate to two nerves bifurcates and is divided between them. Moreover the oblique direction of the roots of the spinal nerves, and the variable length of their course within the spinal canal, are the necessary con- sequences of the relative shortness of the cord, which, as it terminates opposite the first lumbar vertebra, cannot give origin to all the nerves opposite the in- tervertebral foramina, through which they have to pass.* The differences between the anterior and posterior roots may be collected under the following heads: — The anterior roots arise nearer to the median line than the posterior; they approach nearer and nearer to that Ime, towards the lower part of the cord, so that in this situation they arise from each side of the median fissure. Whilst all the posterior roots are given off from a longitudinal furrow of grey substance, from which they never deviate, the anterior roots arise some- » Gall beliuved that he had solved this question, by saying that the length and obliquity of the course of the spin.U nerves is a necessary result of the erect position of man. It is certain that the nerves are less oblique and have a shorter course within the vertebral canal in the lower animals ; but this dilTcrence is explahied by the greater length of the spinal cord in them and has nothing to do with the attitude. '