697 THE INTERNAL CAROTID. AU these arteries foim areolae of different sizes in the pituitary membrane, and give it, in successful injections, a reticulated aspect; they are situated be- tween the periosteum and the pituitary membrane, properly so called. The arteries of the turbinated bones are lodged in the areolar cells on the surface of those bones, and in the arterial canals which are hoUowed out of them. Summary of the Distribution of the Internal Maxillary Artery. The internal maxillary sends branches to the organs of mastication and de- glutition, to the nasal fosss, to the bones and fibrous membranes of the cranium, to the face, and to the organ of hearing. Its different branches are distributed in the following manner: — . , . j ^ ■ To the passive instruments of mastication, viz. the jaws and teetli, tbe in- ferior dental, the superior dental, and the infra-orbital arteries; to the active organs concerned in that process, the masseteric, the anterior and posterior deep temporal, and the pterygoid arteries. To the organs of deglutition, viz. the hard and soft palate and the pharynx, the superior palatine, the small meningeal, the vidian, and the pterygo-palatine To the nasal fossae, some branches of the infra-orbital, and the whole of the spheno-palatine artery; the latter vessel, and consequently the internal maxil- lary artery also, are very large in those animals which have a highly developed olfactory apparatus. To the organ of hearing, the tympanic artery, those branches of the middle meningeal which enter the hiatus Fallopii, and also those which enter the canal of the internal muscle of the malleus. To the face, viz. to the muscles and integuments, the buccal, the infra-orbital, and the mental arteries. The region of the eye is the only part not supplied by the internal maxillary. To the bones of the cranium, and to the dura mater, the middle and the small menijigeal arteries. The iNTERNAii Carotid. Dissection. The simplest method of exposing this vessel is to make the section for examining the pharynx (see p. 283.). The carotid canal must be opened with a chisel, and the outer wall of the cavernous sinus removed. The internal carotid is distributed to the anterior part of the brain, and to the «ye and its appendages. It is one of the two branches into which the common carotid divides: situated, at its origin, on the outside of the external carotid, it passes some- times vertically upwards, parallel to, and in contact with, that artery, and sometimes beMnd it, by crossing it at an acute angle opposite the digastric muscle; it then leaves the external carotid to pass deeply into the triangular space between the pharynx and the ramus of the lower jaw, and reaches the base of the cranium, into which it penetrates by the carotid canal. After emerging from this canal, it is situated in the cavernous sinus, upon the sides of the sella turcica, is reflected upwards on the inner side of the anterior clinoid process, and terminates by dividing into three branches. The size of this artery, -which is always exactly proportioned to that of the brain, is in the adult equal to that of the external carotid; in the infant it is much larger (ramus grandior carotidis, Vesal.'). In man, as in the whole series of animals, the relative size of the internal and external carotids is determined by the relative developement of the brain and the face. The internal carotid is remarkable for retaming the same diameter from its commencement to its termination. Its direction is generally straight until it reaches the base of the cranium, but sometimes it describes a single curve immediately after its commencement, soinetinies several curves having opposite directions. At the base of the