THE INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY. 695 penetrate into the alveoli, and from thence into the teeth through the foramen obsei'ved at the apex of each fang. The posterior deep temporal artery (g) arises opposite the sigmoid notch, passes vertically upwards, between the external pterygoid and the temporal muscles, gains the posterior border of the latter muscle, gets between that border and the temporal fossa, remains in contact with the periosteum, and then divides and subdivides, so as to terminate partly in the temporal muscle and partly upon the periosteum, anastomosing with the middle and anterior deep temporal arteries. It often gives off the masseteric, and sometimes the buccal artery. The masseteric artery is a small branch, the size of which is inversely pro- portioned to that of the masseteric branch of the transversalis faciei. It often arises by a common trunk with the posterior deep temporal, passes outwards in front of the condyle, and therefore in the notch between the condyle and ■the coronoid process, and enters the internal surface of the masseter, in which muscle it anastomoses with the masseteric branches given off by the trans- versalis faciei and facial arteries. The pterygoid arteries are irregular in number; some of them arise directly from the internal maxillary, others from the posterior deep temporal and the middle meningeal. , The small meningeal artery is not constant, but I have seen it in one case as large as the middle meningeal; it arises at the same height as the inferior dental, passes between the pterygoid muscles, and divides into two branches: one of which turns round the origin of the internal pterygoid, and terminates in the velum palati and the nasal fossa;; and another which passes vertically up- wards, between the external pterygoid and the upper wall of the zygomatic fossa, enters the cranium by the foramen ovale, and supplies the trigeminal nerve and the dura mater, anastomosing with small branches given off from the internal carotid. Branches arising near the Tuberosity of the Superior Maxillary Bone. The buccal artery (Ji) is a small branch of variable size, and sometimes ex- ists only in a rudimentary state. It rather frequently arises by a common trunk with the superior dental artery, passes in a tortuous course from behind forwards, between the ramus of the lower jaw and the internal pterygoid muscle, emerges in front of the ramus, and is lost in the buccinator muscle, anastomosing with the buccal branches of the facial and transversalis faciei. The anterior deep temporal artery (i) is of considerable size ; it passes verti- cally upwards, a,long the anterior border of the temporal muscle, with which it is in contact, is lost in that muscle, anastomosing with the posterior deep temporal and the middle temporal. It gives off some extremely delicate or- bital branches, which traverse the canals in the malar bone, and are lost in the adipose tissue of the orbit. The alveolar or superior dental (/) often arises by a common trunk with the infra-orbital, passes in a very tortuous manner forwards and downwards upon the tuberosity of the superior maxilla, and divides into several branches; some of these having reached the alveolar border, are reflected upon the mar- gins ot the alveoli, pass into their cavities, and ramify in the alveolo-dental periosteum; other branches enter the small posterior dental canals, penetrate into tbe alveoh of the molars and bicuspids, and divide into as many ramusculi as there are roots to each of those teeth. Several of these branches penetrate into the maxillary sinus. I have seen one which ran along this sinus from behind forwards near its lower wall, was reflected upwards on the anterior wall of the same cavity and entered the base of the ascending process of the superior maxilla, at which pomt I could no longer follow it. This branch was situated between the lining membrane of the sinus and the bones. Lastly, some very delicate twigs of the superior dental artery enter the buccinator muscle