NEUROLOGY. corresponds to the interval between the cerebral peduncles, the longitudinal groove (d) upon the pons Varolii. "gwuamai In the area of this median excavation are seen, the interpeduncular space (.above r), the mavimillary tubercles (z, corpora mammillaria vel albicantia) the optic tracts (s) and optic commissure (<), the posterior part of tlie Jloor of tiie body*^^ or the tuber cinereum (u), the infundibulum (J), and the pituitary In front of the median excavation are situated, counting from behind for- wards, the anterior part of the floor of the third ventricle (Jamina cinerea; m. Jig. 282.), the under or reflected portion of the corpus callosum (e), and the inferior part of the longitudinal fissure of the cerebrum {x,fig. 276.). Behind the median excavation is the pons Varolii, and, behind that, the middle part (r, fig. 282.) of the great transverse fissure, by which the pia mater enters (above p) the third ventricle, the thick posterior extremity (/) of the corpus callosum, and the posterior part of the longitudinal fissure of the cerebrum. The lateral regions of the base of the brain. Upon each of these regions are seen the inferior surface of the corresponding anterior lobe (a) of the cerebrum, the fissure of Sylvius (y), by which this lobe is separated from the posterior lobe [middle lobe of others, c], and the inferior sar/ace of the posterior lobe itself (c b). There is no distinct middle lobe.f I shall now describe successively and in detail the several parts just enu- merated, with the exception of the cerebral peduncles and the pons Varolii, which have already been noticed as constituent parts of the isthmus of the encephalon. 77te Median Region of the Base of the Brain. The Interpeduncular Space. This space (above r) is of a grey colour, it is perforated by numerous openings for the transmission of vessels, and is termed the middle or posterior perforated spot (locus perforatus); it contains the origin of the third pair of nerves (3). A longitudinal groove and two fasciculi, separated from the corre- sponding cerebral peduncle by a blackish line, are seen in this spot. These interpeduncular fasciculi are formed by a prolongation of the fasciculi of rein- forcement (faisceaux innomines) of the medulla oblongata. The Corpora Albicantia. The mammillary tubercles (corpora albicantia vel mammillaria, z) are two small pisiform or rather hemispherical globules, composed externally of white, and internally of grey substance, situated behind the tuber cinereum, which is accurately adapted to their anterior surface, also behind the infundibulum, and between the peduncles of the brain. They are separated from each other by a deep fissure, excepting at their highest part, where they are connected by means of a thin layer of grey matter, which is very easily torn ; they corre- spond (^z,fig. 282.) to the floor of the third ventricle (/). It will be hereafter seen, that the white covering of these small bodies is formed by the termination of the anterior pillars of the fornix, and hence the name given them by Casserius, the bulbs of the anterior pillars of the fornix (bulbi priorum crurum fornicis), a name which should be preserved. The two corpora albicantia are generally of equal size. In several cases of atrophy of one of the hemispheres of the cerebnim, I have found the corresponding mammillary tubercles also atrophied. We are completely ignorant of the function of these bodies. * [To avoid confusion in the drawing, tlie pituitary body is not represented in/ff.27f>.; its point of attachment is to the infundibulum (i)-] t See note, p. 071.