NEUROLOGY. 1092 The crural nerve is a musculo-cutaneous uerve which supplies the following parts: — its cutaneous portion is distributed to the skin upon the anterior region of the thigh, upon the internal region of the leg, and internal dorsal region of the foot; its muscular portion supplies all the muscles of the anterior region of the thigh*; it also gives several articular nerves to the hip and knee-joints. Tlie sacral plexus. The sacral plexus is entirely distributed to the lower extremity, excepting the internal pudic nerve and certain rectal and vesico- prostatic branches in the male, and rectal, vaginal, and uterine branches in the female. The obturator internus, thepyriformis, the gemelli, and the quadratus femoris, ai'e each provided with a special nerve from the sacral plexus ; the glutaeus medius and minimus, and the tensor vaginae femoris, are especially supplied by the superior gluteal nerve, and the glutaeus maximus by the inferior glu- teal or lesser sciatic nerve. The last-named nerve also furnishes the cutaneous nerves of the posterior region of the thigh. The great sciatic is the nerve of the posterior region of the thigh, and of the entire leg and foot. It supplies all the muscles of the posterior region of the thigh ; thus its external popliteal or peroneal division supplies the muscles of the external region of the leg, by its musculo-cutaneous branch, and the mus- cles of the anterior region by its interosseous branch; it also supplies the ex- ternal region of the leg, and the dorsal region of the foot. Its internal popliteal or tibial division supplies all the muscles of the posterior region of the leg, the skin upon the internal and external calcaneal regions, and that upon the external dorsal region of the foot. Of its terminal branches, the internal plantar nerve is distributed to the mus- cles of the internal plantar region of the foot, to the flexor brevis digitorum, to the two internal lumbricales, and to the skin of the internal plantar region; lastly, it gives off the collateral branches of the toes, excepting the two for the fifth toe, and the external collateral branch of the fourth. The external plantar nerve is distributed to the muscles of the external plantar region, to the flexor accessorius, to all the interossei, to the two external lumbricales, to the adductor poUicis and transversus pedis, and to the skin of the external plantar region : it also gives the internal and exter- nal collateral nerves of the fifth toe, and the external collateral nerve of the fourth. Comparison of the Nerves of the Upper and Lower Extremities. The lumbo-sacral plexus, which supplies the whole of the lower extremity, precisely corresponds to the cervico-brachial, which supplies the upper ex- tremity. The lumbar corresponds to the cervical, and the sacral to the bra- chial plexus. The connexion, or sort of fusion of the cervical with the bra- chial plexus, and of the lumbar with the sacral plexus, explains why it is found, on comparing the nerves of the upper and lower extremity, that several of the nerves arising from the brachial plexus are represented by nerves from the sacral plexus, and that several of those from the cervical plexus have their representatives in nerves derived from the lumbar plexus. It will be seen, moreover, that this analogy ought not to be carried too far, and that it is necessary, in making the comparison, to exclude aU nerves which belong to peculiar organs in both regions. Thus, the phrenic, occipital, and auricular nerves branches of the cervical plexus, have no representatives in the lower extremity, nor is there any nerve in the upper extremity corresponding to the *°o"the other hand, ttere is no objection to admitting that the external and internal inguinal nerves in the lower extremity are represented by the cla- vicular nerves in the upper extremity. * [And also a few filaments to the iliacus, psoas, and pectineus.]