859 THE EYELIDS. The Organs of Sight. The eves or the organs of sight, are situated at the highest part of the face, so that thev are enabled to explore objects at a distance. _ ThPv are two in number; but they co-operate m their function so as to act V,kP T. sinffle organ. The result of this is that vision is rendered more certain, and its field of operation more extensive, at the same time that, from the unity of action of both eyes, it is smgrZ^- ... ,. , ^- . The eyes are protected by the orbital cavities m which they are contained; thev are covered by the eyelids, and these are surmounted by the eyebrows. They are surrounded by six muscles, by which they can be moVed m all directions; they are divided into the straight and the oblique muscles. There is also a secretins apparatus, the apparatus of the lachrymal passages, the secretion from which lubricates the anterior surface of the ball of the eye, and facilitates the exercise of its functions. The study of the organ of sight, therefore, is not limited to that of the eyes alone, but includes that of the means of protection, viz. the orbital cavities (see Osteology), the eyelids, and the eyebrows; that of the muscles, or moving organs; and that of the lachrymal passages, or lubricating apparatus. These accessory parts, or appendages of the organ of vision, have been collectively named by Haller the tutamina oculi. We shall commence our description with them. T7ie Eyebrows. The eyebrows are two arched ridges, which are covered with short stiff hairs, that are directed from within outwards, and over-lap each other ; the eyebrows are situated at the lower part of the forehead, and form the boundary of the upper eyelid. Their direction corresponds precisely with that of the orbital arch. The hairs upon them are more numerous, and longer at the inner extremity, which is called the head, than at the outer, which is denominated the tail of the eyebrow. The heads of the two eyebrows are separated from each other by an interval which corresponds to the root of the nose; sometimes, however, they are blended together. Structure. The skin in which the hairs of the eyebrow are implanted is thick, and very closely united beneath to a muscular layer formed by the fron- talis, the orbicularis palpebrarum, and the corrugator supercilii, the last named muscle being situated beneath the other two. The orbital and superciliary arches serve as a basis to support the eyebrows ; the berves of these parts are very numerous, and are derived from the facial and the fifth nerves; their vessels arise from the ophthalmic and temporal arteries. Uses. The eyebrows, which give a peculiar character to the human coun- tenance, protect the eye, and, when depressed in front of it, intercept a great number of the rays of Ught; they assist in a remarkable degree in giving ex- pression to the face. The Eyelids. The eyelids are two moveable and protecting curtains, placed in front of the ball of each eye, which they conceal or leave uncovered, according as they are in a state of approximation or separation. The eyelids are two in number — a superior and an inferior. In a great number of animals there is a third eyelid, of which merely a trace exists in man. The eyelids are large enough to close the base of the orbit completely, and to intercept entirely the passage of light. _ Each of the eyelids presents for our consideration a cutaneous surface, which IS convex, and marked with concentric semilunar folds, that become effaced when the lids are closed; an ocular surface (fig. 235.), which is concave, is accurately moulded upon the ball of the eye, and presents a series of yellowish,