ANGEIOLOGY. The spinal branches which are given o£Pon each side of the body, by the ver- tebral artery m the neck, by the intercostal arteries in the back, by the lumbar arteries in the loins, and by the lateral sacral arteries in the pelvis, enter the spmaUanal through the several intervertebral foramina, and then each of them divides into an ascendmg and a descending branch ; the ascending branch runs upwards upon the lateral part of the body of the vertebra above, and anastomoses with the descending branch of the spinal artery above it, while the descending branch anastomoses with the ascending branch of the artery below. Lach of the anastomotic arches thus formed has its concavity directed outwards ; so that there is a series of arterial arches, united at their extremities situated upon each side of the posterior surface of the bodies of all the vertebra' hrom the convexity of each arch two transverse branches are given off —one running above and the other below the small foramina upon the posterior surface of the body of the corresponding vertebra. The cribriform por- tion of the bone is thus surrounded by the arterial arches with their transverse branches ; and from all points of the polygon which they form small arteries are given off, which penetrate into the substance of each vertebra, and anas- tomose with the arterial twigs that enter the anterior surface of the body of the vertebra. The arrangement of these arteries gives a perfect idea of that of the veins known as the anterior longitudinal veins or plexuses, and of the transverse plexuses, which pass from one to the other. The Anterior Longitudinal Intraspinal Veins or Plexuses, the Transverse Plexuses, and the Proper Veins of the Bodies of the VertebrcE. Dissection. Remove the arches of the vertebrse, and the spinal cord and its coverings. The plexus may also be viewed from the front by carefiilly sawing through the pedicles, and then removing the bodies of the vertebrae. The anterior longitudinal plexuses, described by Chaussier, but still more cor- rectly by Breschet, form two venous trunks, named the great anterior longi- tudinal veins, extending from the foramen magnum to the base of the coccyx, one on each side of the posterior common vertebral ligament, and therefore upon the sides of the posterior surface of the bodies of the vertebraj, and on the inner side of their pedicles. These veins, improperly called vertebral sinuses, communicate together opposite each vertebra by a transverse plexus, situated between the body of the vertebra and the posterior common ligament. These longitudinal plexuses are less developed in the cervical and sacral regions. It is probable that in the neck their place is supplied by the vertebral veins. It would be in vain to consider these plexuses as having a distinct origin, course, and termination ; the description given above of the distribution of the arteries is applicable to the veins in every respect: thus, the venous plexuses are formed by a series of plexiform arches, which embrace the pedicles of each vertebra, have their concavity directed outwards, and their convexity inwards, and the extremities of which anastomose together opposite the inter-vertebral foramina, where they communicate with the branches on the outside of the spine, and assist in the formation of the vertebro-lumbar and vertebro-costal veins, and consequently of the azygos veins. From the convexity of each arch proceeds a transverse plexus, which goes to join with its fellow of the opposite side ; and just as we have seen that the transverse arteries extending from one arterial arch to another give off branches to the bodies of the vertebra;, so, in like manner, the transverse venous plexuses receive the veins which emerge from the body of each vertebra. The arrangement of the veins or plexuses just described explains the alternate enlargements and contractions observed in different parts of the anterior longitudinal plexuses. The rare interruptions, described by M.