1071 THE OBTURATOR NERVE. Collateral branch. The obturator nerve gives off no branch in the pelvis : during its passage through the obturator or subpubic canal it gives two filaments to the obturator extemus; one of these penetrates the upper border of the muscle, and the other enters at its anterior surface.* The obturator intemus receives no filament from the obturator nerve. \. Terminal branches. These are four in number f; three \ of them, constituting a superficial set, pass under the pectineus, and are distributed as follows: the internal '/•hJ to the gracilis, the external to the adductor longus, and the middle to the adductor brevis ; the fourth, which is more deeply seated, belongs to the adductor magnus. The branch for the gracilis expands, as it enters the muscle, into several filaments, the largest of which (r, ^^.291.), runs for some distance upon the internal sur- face of the muscle before terminating in it. The branch for the adductor longus enters the upper border and deep surface of the muscle : a rather large division (q) of this branch, taking a different course, passes sometimes in front of and sometimes behind the muscle, which is crossed by the nerve in the first case, and perforated by it in the second; the nerve then divides into several filaments, some of which anastomose with the accessory branch (at m) of the in- ternal saphenous nerve, whilst another anastomoses with the saphenous nerve itself, and a third termi- nates in the sjmovial membrane of the knee joint: this f' i W M '® articular nerve ; it may unite with the articular branch of the nerve for the vastus intemus. The anastomotic division of the branch for the adductor longus is sometimes as large as the muscular branch itself.f The branch for the adductor brevis crosses the upper border of that muscle, expands upon it, but does not enter it until it reaches the middle; there is almost always an anastomotic twig, which joins the internal saphenous branch of the crural nerve.§ * [It also gives off in this situation articular filaments to the hip joint; these are small or absent when the articular branches of the accessory to the obturator are large.] t [Before dividing into its terminal branches the obturator is joined by its accessory nerve, see notes, infri) ; it supplies a se- parate branch to the pectineus when that from the accessory nerve Is wanting.] • See note, p. 1072. § In a great number of subjects I have found a small nervous cord, which sometimes came off from the third lumbar nerve, some- times from the obturator itself, and which may be called the ac- cessory qf the obturator nerve, or the nerve of the coxo-femoral ar- ticulation; it perforates the psoas to reach its inner surface, runs parallel to and above the obturator nerve, gains the pubes, which it crosses on the inner side of the ilio-pectineal eminence, with which it is in contact, dips beneath the pectineus, and anastomoses with the internal saphenous nerve, passing into the angle of bifur- cation of the femoral artery, where it gives off the profunda. Op- posite the pubes it gives ofF several branches which perforate the fibrous capsule of the coxo-femoral articulation, and are distri- buted to the synovial membranes. [This small accessory nerve was first described by Schmidt. As it passes under the pectineus it partially supplies that muscle; its anastomotic branch is de- scribed as unltmg.with the obturator nerve beneath the pectineus, and not with the internal sa- phenous (see also notes, pp. 1072.1075.). The articular branch was believed by Schmidt to end In the fat near the .icntabulum. When the accessory nerve is small, the articular filaments and the branch to the pectineus are replaced by others from the trunk of the obturator itself VOL. n. F F