1118 NEUROLOGY. to me to send off a small ramification to the pituitary membrane. The de- scendinij filaments terminate by supplying the dental nerves for the incisor, canine, and first bicuspid teeth. A great number of filaments are also lost in the substance of the bone. I have never seen any filaments from the dental nerves entering the mem- brane of the maxillary sinus. The Terminal Branches of the Superior Maxillary Nerve. Having reached the anterior orifice of the infra-orbital canal, the' superior maxillary nerve, the component bundles of which had been merely in juxta- position, immediately expands (i,fig. 301.) into a pencil of diverging filaments beneath the levator labii superioris. These filaments (i, fig. 285.) may be divided into ascending or palpebral, which pass upwards and outwards beneath the orbicularis palpebrarum, and are distributed to the skin and conjunctiva of the lower eyelid; a great number of internal or nasal filaments, which run upon the side of the nose and are distributed to the skin of that organ; one of them runs along beneath the septum: and lastly into descending or labial filaments, which are the most numerous, and which enter the substance of the upper lip and are distributed to the skin and the mucous membrane; all these filaments, and especially the labial, interlace and anastomose with the facial nerve, so as to form a plexus, named the infra-orbital, to which we shall return in describing the facial nerve. I have seen the nasal and the palpebral filaments arise together from the superior maxillary nerve before it had given off the anterior dental, enter a special canal situated on the inner side of the infra-orbital canal, emerge op- posite the line of demarcation between the cheek and the nose, and then ex- pand into their nasal and palpebral divisions ; whilst the labial filaments had their usual arrangement. The Inferior Maxillary Division of the Fifth Nerve. Dissection. As this nerve must be examined both upon its internal and its external aspect, it must be dissected in both directions. An antero-posterior section of the head in the median line will enable us to see, on the internal surface of the nerve, the chorda tympani, the otic ganglion, and the origins of all the other branches which come from the inner side of the inferior maxillary nerve, viz. the nerve for the internal pterygoid, the lingual nerve, and the dental nerve. In order to see the distribution of the deep temporal, the mas- seteric, the buccal, the internal pterygoid, and the auriculo-temporal nerves, the inferior maxillary nerve must be exposed from its outer side, by breaking down the zygomatic arch, reflecting down the masseter which is to be detached as far back as the sigmoid notch, by sawing through the base of the coronoid process, and turning the temporal muscle upwards, and then by carefully dividing the external pterygoid muscle, through which the buccal nerve passes. The inferior maxillary nerve {c, figs. 296, 8ic.), the most posterior and the largest division of the fifth nerve, passes outwards and a little forwards; and after a very short course within the cranium escapes through the foramen ovale into the zygomatic fossa, where it divides successively into seven branches. The non-ganglionic root ib,fig. 299.) of the fifth nerve is connected exclusively with the inferior maxillary division (c) of its other root, beneath which it lies, from which it can be distinguished by not having a plexiform structure, and with which it is not blended until it emerges from the foramen ovale. Of the seven branches of the inferior maxillary nerve, three are externaZ—namely, the anterior and posterior deep temporal, the masseteric, and the buccal ; one is posterior, namely, the auriculo-temporal; one is internal, the mternal pterygoid; and two are inferior, the lingual or gustatory, and the inferior dental. These nerves may also be divided into the fo/fe<e»a/branches, including the first tive.