683 THE COMMON CA.ROTID ARTERIES. mammary and the left vertebral may arise directly from the arch of the '^°^Varieties by transposition or inversion of origin. The brachio-cephalic trunk is sometimes found on the left side, instead of the right; still more frequently the right subclavian arises separately below the left subclavian, and then passes upwards and to the right side, most commonly behind the trachea and oesophagus, but sometimes between these two canals. Again, the trunks arisin°- from the arch of the aorta have been seen to be given off m the fol- lowing order : a single trunk for both common carotids; then the left sub- clavian ; and lastly the right subclavian, which arose from behind the arch of the aorta, and passed as in the preceding case. The Common Cakotid Arteries. Dissection. Dissect the anterior cervical region, preserving all the parts in relation to the vessels. In order to see the thoracic portion of these arteries, remove the upper part of the sternum. The primitive, or common carotid arteries (ff, fig. 198.; a, fig. 204.), are the arteries of the head. Their limit above is marked by the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, opposite which they divide into the external and internal carotids.* They are two in number, distinguished as the right and left : they differ as to their origin, their length, and their directions ; thus—on the left side, the common carotid arises directly from the aorta; on the right, it arises from a trunk common to it and to the subclavian, viz. the innominate, or brachio- cephalic artery (e, fig. 198.). As the brachio-cephalic and the left common carotid are given off from the aorta nearly at the same level, it follows that the left common carotid is longer than the right, by the entire length of the brachio-cephalic. It follows, also, from the obliquity of the arch of the aorta, that the left common carotid is placed much deeper than the right at its origin ; but in the cervical region the two carotids are upon the same plane. They pass somewhat obliquely upwards and outwards immediately after their origin, but they are directed vertically and parallel to each other in the cervical region, f The interval between them is occupied by the trachea and the oesophagus below, and by the larynx and pharynx above. Their course is straight, and without any winding. Their diameter is uniform throughout; a Qircumstance which is connected with the absence of any collateral branches. The caliber of these arteries is relatively larger in man than in other animals; and this has reference to the greater size of his brain. I have not observed any difference in diameter between the right and left common carotids. As about one inch in length of the left common carotid lies in the thorax, its relations must be separately studied in that situation. Relations of the thoracic portion. In front, with the left subclavian vein, and the stemo-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, which separate it from the sternum; behind, with the trachea and oesophagus, and with the left sub- clavian and left vertebral arteries ; on the outside, with the pleura or the left wall of the mediastinum ; on the inside, with the brachio-cephalic trunk, from which it is separated by a triangular interval, in which the trachea is visible. Relations of the cervical portion. These are the same for both arteries. In front, each common carotid is covered below by the sterno-mastoid, and more immediately by the sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, and omo-hyoid muscles; the latter of which crosses the artery obliquely.J In its upper half it corresponds » [The common carotid has been seen to divide above the os hyoides, also opposite the thy- roid cartilage, and even low down in the neck ] / . 11 "ly t [In consMuence of the larynx being wider than the trachea, the common carotids are not quite parallel in the neck but are somewhat lurther .ipart above than below.] + order to omit nothing, I should say that the common carotid is crossed ohliquelv bv a branch which is given off from the superior thyroid artery to the stcrno-mastoid musde