NEUROLOGY. 976 The Anterior and Inferior Part of the Longitudinal Fissure. This (x,fig. 276.) is situated in front of the reflected portion of the corpus caUosum, and can only be seen in its entire extent after the removal of a very dense fibrous layer which connects, sometimes very firmly, the back part of the right and left anterior lobes of the cerebrum. Not unfrequently one of these lobes IS seen to encroach upon the other: the falx cerebri, which is very narrow in front, occupies only a very small portion of this fissure. All the parts belonging to the median region of the base of the brain, which we have hitherto described, are situated in front of the pons Varolii; those which remain to be examined are placed behind it: they are, counting from behind forwards, the back part of the longitudinal fissure, the posterior extremity of the corpus callosum, and the great horizontal or transverse fissure. The Back Part of the Longitudinal Fissure. This is bounded in front by the posterior extremity of the corpus callosum (/), and as that extremity is at a greater distance from the back of the cere- brum than the anterior extremity of the corpus callosum is from the front of the brain, it follows that the back part of the longitudinal fissure is of much greater extent than the fore part (see figs. 277. 282.). Moreover, this part of the fissure is free throughout its whole extent, for it is entirely occupied by the base of the falx .cerebri, whilst the fore part is only partially filled with the apex of the falx: it might even be said that the posterior lobes have a tendency to separate from each other in this situation. TTie Posterior Extremity of the Corpus Callosum, and Middle Portion of the Great Transverse Fissure. The posterior extremity (f, fig. 282.) of the corpus callosum is named the bourrelet *, in consequence of its being so much enlarged. This enlarged ex- tremity, which we shall afterwards find is continuous with the posterior pillars of the fornix, constitutes the upper border of a fissure (r), the lower border of which is formed by the tubercula quadrigemina (/g). The pia mater (r to near k) enters at tliis median fissure, and forms the velum interpositum, or tela choroidea: in this situation, also, is found the conarium or pineal gland; and it is here that Bichat described the orifice of his arachnoid canal. This median fissure becomes continuous with a lateral fissure on each side, so as to form the great transverse cerebral fissure. The Great Transverse Cerebral Fissure. The great cerebral fissure (^Bichat), or the great transverse or horizontal fissure, follows a semicircular direction, having its concavity directed forwards; it commences at the fissure of Sylvius on one side (h,fig. 276.; above ^,fig. 282.), turns round the opposite cerebral peduncle, and ends at the opposite Sylvian fissure. The peduncle of the cerebrum and the optic thalamus may be regarded as forming the root of each cerebral hemisphere. Now, the lateral part of the great transverse fissure passes round the posterior half of this root, because it is in this situation that the corresponding cerebral hemisphere is turned in- wards upon itself. It is this reflected and concave surface of the hemisphere that forms the outer border of the corresponding lateral portion of the trans- verse fissure, whilst the optic thalamus forms its inner border. This fissure communicates directly with the inferior cornua of the lateral ventricles, and through it the pia mater enters those ventricles to form the internal pia mater of the brain. * Cushion, thick border.