755 THE POSTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY. interosseous ligament, at the lower part of which it divides into a posterior and an anterior branch. Its collateral branches are, first, posterior ones, which are very numerous, and supply the soleus : the highest of these are of considerable size, and often arise from the tibio-peroneal artery. Secondly, there are internal and external branches, which pass to the deep-seated muscles of the leg : amongst the ex- ternal branches is the nutritious artery of the fibula; and amongst the internal branches a transverse or oblique anastomotic twig may be specially noted, which extends from the peroneal to the posterior tibial Sometimes this anas- tomotic branch is very large, and,- in that case, the posterior tibial is more slender than usual up to that point, but increases in size after receiving this addition, and afterwards gives oS the plantar arteries. Terminal branches. The anterior terminal branch, named the peroneal per- forating, or the anterior peroneal artery ig,fig. 216.), perforates the lower part of the interosseous ligament, descends upon the lower end of the tibia, and anastomoses with the external malleolar artery, which is sometimes formed by it. This branch, which is generally very small, is sometimes as large, or even larger than the posterior branch, and then supplies the place of the lower part of the anterior tibial, and forms the dorsal artery of the foot; the anterior tibial is then very small. There almost always exists a trace of this distribution in the presence of a small branch, which anastomoses with the anterior tibial. The posterior terminal branch (I, Jig. 217.') of the peroneal artery, which might be called the external calcaneal, forms the continuation of that vessel, and gains the posterior aspect of the external malleolus, to which it is applied, after running along the outer border of the tendo Achillis, being separated from the skin by the fascia of the leg and another layer of fibrous tissue. It gives ofi' to its inner side, opposite the posterior border of the lower end of the tibia, a transverse branch, which anastomoses with the posterior tibial artery. It then ramifies upon the outer surface of the os calcis, supplies the calcaneal attachments of the muscles of the sole of the foot, and also the skin of the heel, and anastomoses with the external malleolar and also with the external plantar artery. Some small ascending branches pass above the os calcis, and anastomose in front of the tendo AchiUis with corresponding branches of the posterior tibial. I have seen the external calcaneal artery derived from the posterior tibial. The Posterior Tibial Artery. 'Tas. posterior tibial artery (t, fig. 217.) is the internal branch of the bifur- cation of the tibio-peroneal artery or trunk, and having entered a groove on the OS calcis, beneath the internal annular ligament of the tarsus (t,fig. 218 ) terminates by dividing into the internal (a) and the external (b) plantar ar- teries. It IS larger than the other arteries of the leg, and is generaUy inversely proportioned to the anterior tibial and the peroneal. Thus, in a subject in which the anterior tibial and the dorsal artery of the foot were very large the posterior tibial and the internal plantar were scarcely one third of their or- dmary size. The posterior tibial artery is at first directed obliquely inwards, and then vertically downwards; and it is in relation, in front, with the tibiaUs posticus: lower down, with the flexor communis digitorum, which separates it from the tibia; below that, with the posterior border of the internal malleolus, from which It IS separated by the tendons of the tibialis posticus and flexor longus digitorum; still lower with the ankle joint; and, lastly, whilst under the a?ch of the OS calcis, with the groove for the tibialis posticuL Behind, it is at &st covered by the gastrocnemius and soleus; and in the lower third of the W tTifn'f vn-°"'''i'- ^'■^^^'^ting, it is in relation with the inner border of the endo AchiUis and is separated from the skin by two fibrous layers. The in! ternal popliteal nerve runs along the outer side of this artery. 13 ^