794 ANGEIOLOGY. P>g- 222. branS^ V ff """"P^"'" circulatory tree, having its roots, trunk, and branches. The first, or venous portion of this system of veins is arranged Ike the veins of the other parts of the body, and has its roots of oririnTn S spleen and pancreas, and in the sub-diaphragmatic portion of the alimentary canal; whilst the second, or arterial portion, sends its branches, like those of an artery, into the interior of the liver. The hepatic veins, which perform the functions of ordinary veins in re- ference to the second or arterial portion of the vena porta;, connect the sys- tem of the vena portae with the general venous system. Tlie Branches of Origin of the Vena Porta. The branches of origin of the vena portse (i, fig. 222.) consist of all the veins which retui-n the blood from the sub-diaphragmatic portion of the ali- mentary canal, and also from the spleen and pancreas. They correspond to the branches of the coeliac axis, with the exception of the hepatic artery; they xmite into three trunks, the great mesenteric (a), small mesenteric {b), and splenic (c) vci7is. These veins are arranged like vense comites to the corresponding arteries. The great and small mesenteric veins. The intestinal or mesenteric rems com- mence just as the arteries terminate, by two layers of vessels, viz. a sub- serous layer, the vessels of which ramify beneath the peritoneum, and a deep layer, formed by the vessels of the coats of the iatestinal canal. These small vessels unite into anastomotic meshes, which always lie subjacent to the arterial network, and which termi- nate in larger branches, and thus con- stitute a series of veins corresponding to the arteries of the intestine. The right colic veins (dd) and the veins of the small intestine (shown cut short at e) termi- nate, the one in the right and the other in the left side of the superior mesenteric or great mesaraic vein (a) : this vein, in the early periods of intra-uterine life, re- ceives the omphalo-mesenteric vein, a branch which corresponds to the omphalo- mesenteric artery, and commences upon the vesicula umbilicalis; the artery and the vein disappear about the third month of utero-gestation, but the vesicle remains for a longer period. On the other hand, the left colic veins (/) enter the inferior mesenteric or small mesaraic vein (6): this vessel forms the con- tinuation of the superior hcemorrhoidal veins (g), which communicate very freely with the middle and inferior hsemorrhoidal branches of the internal iliac vein. The splenic vein (c), which is proportionally larger than the artery, arises in the cells of the spleen by a great number of roots, which gradually unite in the hilus of that organ, and form the same number of branches as there are arteries, each coming from a distinct compartment of the organ. All these branches soon unite into a single trunk, which passes across to the right side behind the pancreas, and therefore behind the splenic artery, which it accom- panies without being tortuous : it is one of the branches immediately concerned in forming the trunk of the vena porta;. During its course, the splenic vein receives the venous vasa brevia (h h) from the stomach. The inferior mesenteric vein opens into the splenic ; so that there are only