THE GLOSSO-PHARYNGEAL NERVE. 1131 pars petrosa in front of the preceding, and terminates in the reddish tissue known as the otic ganglion. * , , It follows, therefore, that the nerve of Jacobson connects the glosso-pharyn- geal nerve with the superior maxillary division of the fifth nerve, (especially with the spheno-palatine ganglion through the intervention of the vidian nerve), with the otic ganglion of the inferior maxillary division, and with the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. The anastomotic branch to the facial nerve arises from the ganglion of An- dersh immediately below the nerve of Jacobson ; it runs downwards and out- wards behind the styloid process, is then reflected upwards, so as to describe a loop with its concavity turned upwards, and anastomoses with the facial imme- diately after the exit of that nerve from the stylo-mastoid foramen. This branch appears to me to be the remaining trace of a considerable branch of the facial nerve, which I have seen partially supplying the place of the glosso- pharyngeal (see the Tongue, Vol. I. p. 448.). The anastomosis of the glosso-pharyngeal with the spinal accessory and pneumo- gastric nerves. Most commonly the glosso-pharyngeal runs along the pneumo- gastric, or more correctly along the anastomotic branch of the spinal accessory. Sometimes it is completely separated from these nerves, and merely communi- cates with them by means of its pharyngeal branches. The branch for the digastricus and stylo-hyoideus. This branch comes off from the outer side of the nerve, and bifurcates ; one of its divisions enters the posterior belly of the digastricus, and the other supplies the stylo-pharyngeus and stylo-hyoideus. It has already been stated that this branch anastomoses with the facial nerve in the digastric muscle. The carotid filaments. These are very numerous ; they descend along the internal carotid artery, and, having reached the point of bifurcation of the common carotid, anastomose with the carotid filaments of the superior cervical ganglion, and assist in forming the arterial plexus. I have not been able to trace them below the bifurcation of the common carotid. Some of these fila- ments are described as joining the cardiac nerves. The pharyngeal branches. These are two or three in number; they anasto- mose with the pharyngeal branches of the pneumogastric to constitute the pharyngeal plexus. These branches evidently supply the middle and superior constrictors. The filaments for the latter muscle are reflected upwards upon the posterior surface of the pharynx. The tonsillar branches are very numerous, and form a sort of plexus. The lingual branches. After having given off the different branches above- mentioned, the glosso-pharyngeal, reduced to half its original size, enters the base of the tongue, and then ramifies; some of its lingual branches lie close beneath the mucous membrane ; others traverse the upper layers of the mus- cular substance of the tongue to proceed to the mucous membrane, in front of the preceding branches ; they are all intended for the mucous membrane ; the internal branches proceed from without inwards at the side of the median line, whilst the external runs along the border of the tongue; I have never seen any filament terminating in the muscular fibres. Function. From its distribution this nerve must be regarded as a motor nerve for the pharynx, and a sensory nerve for the base of the tongue. • Arnold admits six filaments for the nerves of Jacobson, and consequently six small ducts as branches of the canal of Jacobson ; these six filaments consist of the thrre described in the text above, and of a twig for the fenestra rotunda, one for the fenestra ovalis and one for the Eustachian tube. I have distinctly seen the twig for the fenestra ovalis, that is to say, a twig which reaches the margin of the fenestra ovalis, but cannot be traced any farther. I have also seen the twig wliicli passes to the Eustachian tube ; but I have not yet been able to find the twig for the fenestra rotunda.