THE LACHRYMAL GLAND. 867 fore from the orbital surface of the superior maxillary bone, immediately be- hind the margin of the orbit, and often even from the lachrymal sac. From this orlffin it passes backwards, in the form of a flat bundle, which turns round the lower surface of the globe of the eye, situated at first between the eyeball and the inferior rectus, then between it and the external rectus, and at length ends in an aponeurotic expansion, which is blended with the sclerotic, near the outer border of the superior rectus. Its insertion into the sclerotic is further back than that of the superior oblique; and therefore, much further back than those of the recti. Action. It rotates the eye in the opposite direction to the superior oblique. Its turning round the lower surface of the eyeball renders its action extremely effective. From its oblique course from before backwards it can draw the eye slightly forwards. The Lachrymal Passages. The term lachrymal passages includes both the apparatus for secreting and that for conveying away the tears, consisting of a secreting organ, named the lachrymal gland; of excretory ducts, which pour out the tears upon the conjunc- tiva ; and of a second set of ducts, intended to absorb the tears and convey them into the nasal fossse, comprising the puncta lachrymalia, the lachrymal canals, the lachrymal sac, and the nasal ducts. Such is the order in which we shall describe this apparatus. The Lachrymal Gland. The lachrymal gland (glandula innominataof the ancients) consists of two very distinct parts — an oi-bitalportion, situated in the fossa on the roof of the orbit, and a palpebral portion, which is inclosed in the substance of the upper eyelid. The first or orbital portion (I, fig. 207.), the only part generally described, is of an irregular semi-ovoid form, having its long diameter placed transversely. It varies in size in different subjects, but is generally about as large as a filbert.* Its upper surface is convex, and corresponds to the fossa in the frontal bone, to which it adheres, especially in front, by very distinct fibrous bands: its inferior surface is concave, and is in relation with the external rectus, and with a small part of the superior rectus. Its anterior border corresponds to the orbital arch, or rather to the fibrous membrane of the eyelid, immediately behind which it is situated ; hence it may be exposed by an incision along this arch. By its posterior edge it receives its vessels and nerves. The second or palpebral portion, though continuous with the first, is sepa- rated from it by several fibrous bands. It forms a thin granular layer, which is covered and concealed by a very dense lamina of fibrous tissue that appears to be prolonged into its interior. This palpebral portion occupies the outer portion of the upper eyelid, and extends ahnost as far as the upper border of the tarsal cartilage. The excretory ducts of the lachrymal gland. Before the discovery of these excretory ducts, it was only by inference that the so-caUed glandula innominata was -regarded as the secreting organ of the tears. In 1661 Steno discovered these ducts in the sheep, in which animal they are large enough to admit bristles. He described thirteen or fourteen ducts. The difficulty of detecting these ducts m the human subject is sufficiently proved by the fact, that neither Morgagni, Zinn and Haller, could ever find them ; the second Monro, however, succeeded in filling them with mercury, and described them accurately. Thev are from ten to twelve m number; they run parallel to each other beneath the palpebral conjunctiva, and open upon the inner surface of the eyelid bv a corresponding number of orifices (d,fig. 235.), placed very regularly about a line from the tarsal cartilage along its outer half MM. Chaussier and Ribes * [It has all the anatomical characters of a compound gland.] Q 3