VIII CONTENTS. supra^clavicular —Its deep descending branches, the nerve to the descendens noni and the ^nl^Ii'lTT'" posterior branches. - The anterior branches of the fifth, sixth, seventh: and eighth cervical, and first dorsal nerves -The brachial plexus-its collateral branches above the clavicle - its muscuiar branches, posterior thoracic, supra-scapular — opposite to tlie clavicle the thoracic, below the clavicle the circumfiex — its terminal branches, the internal cutaneous and its accessory, themusculo-cutaneous, the median, the ulnar, the musculo-spiral or radial— Summary of the distribution of the branches of the brachial plexus - Page 103'J The Anterior Branches of the Dorsal Nerves, or the Intercostal Nerves. Dissection. — Enumeration. — Common characters. — Characters proper to each - 10G2 The Anterior Branches of the Lumbar Nerves. Enumeration—The lumbar plexus. — Collateral branches, abdominal and inguinal Ter- minal branches — the obturator nerve — the crural nerve and its branches, viz. the musculo- cutaneous — the accessory of the internal saphenous — the branch to the sheath of the vessels — the muscular branches — the internal saphenous - - - . . joge The Anterior Brunches of the Sacral Nerves. Dissection Enumeration The sacral plexus. — Collateral branches, viz. the visceral nerves — the muscular nerves — the inferior haemorrhoidal — the internal pudic and its branches —the superior gluteal nerve—the inferior gluteal, or lesser sciatic nerve —the nerves for the pyramidalis, quadratus femoris, and gemelli. —Terminal branch of the sacral plexus, or the great sciatic nerve. — The external popliteal and its branches — the peroneal, saphenous, cutaneous, and muscular branches — the musculo-cutaneous — the anterior tibial! — The internal popliteal and its branches — the tibial or external saphenous — muscular and articular branches — the internal plantar — the external plantar. — Summary of the nerves of the lower extremity— Comparison of the nerves of the upper with those of the lower ex- tremity . - - - . . . . 1077 2'he Cranial Nerves. Definition and classification. — The central extremities of the cranial nerves, viz. of the olfactory — of the optic — of the common motor oculi — of the pathetic — of the trigeminal of the external motor oculi — of the portio dura and portio mollis of the seventh of the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumogastric, and spinal accessory divisions of the eighth—and of the ninth nerves -------- 1093 Distribution of the Cranial Nerves. The first pair or olfactory nerves. — The second or optic nerves. — The third or common motor nerves The fourth or pathetic nerves. — The fifth or trigeminal nerves — the ophthalmic division of the fifth, and its lachrymal, frontal, and nasal branches—the oph- thalmic ganglion — the superior maxillary division of the fifth, and its orbital branch — the spheno-palatine ganglion, and its palatine, spheno-palatiue, and vidian branches—the posterior and anterior dental, and the terminal branches of the superior maxillary nerve — the inferior maxillary division of the fifth — its collateral branches, viz. the deep temporal, the masseteric, buccal, and internal pterygoid, and auriculo-temporal—its tenninal branches, viz. the lingual and inferior dental — the otic ganglion. — The sixth pair or external motor nerves The seventh pair — the portio dura or the facial nerve — its collateral branches — its terminal branches, viz. the temporo-faclal and cervico-facial — the portio mollis or auditory nerve The eighth pair — its first portion or the glosso-pharyngeal nerve — its second portion or the pneumogastric nerve, divided into a cranial, cervical, thoracic, and abdominal part — its third portion or the spinal accessory nerve. — The ninth pair or the hypoglossal nerves. — General view of the cranial nerves ...... 1104 The Sympathetic System of Nerves. General remarks. — The cervical portion of the S3rmpathetic. — The superior cervical ganglion its superior branch, carotid plexus, and cavernous plexus — its anterior, external, inferior, and internal branches. — The middle cervical ganglion The inferior cervical ganglion— The vertebral plexus The cardiac nerves; right, superior, middle, and inferior; left— The cardiac ganglion and plexuses. — The thoracic portion of the sympathetic The external and mternal branches The splanchnic nerves, great and small—The visceral ganglia and plexuses in the abdomen, viz. the solar plexus and semilunar ganglia. — The diaphragmatic and suprarenal, the coeliac, the superior mesenteric, the inferior mesenteric, and the renal, spermatic, and ovarian plexuses. — The lumbar portion of the sympathetic. — The communicatuig, external, and internal branches. — The lumbar splanchnic nerves and visceral plexuses in the pelvis The sacral portion of the sympathetic. — General view of the sympathetic system - - - - - - - IH.'i