THE CORPUS CALLOSUM. 985 together and forming their commissure: this band is the corpus callosum * (mesolobe, Chaussier; commissura cerebri magna, maxima, Reil, Soemmerring; d d) On removing the upper part of the two hemispheres by a horizontal section made about a Une or two above the corpus callosum, it is seen that each hemisphere encroaches upon the corpus callosum and overhangs it without adhering to it: the interval between the hemisphere and the corpus caUosum has been improperly termed the ventricle of the corpus callosum. But there is no cavity here, nor is there a smooth exhalant and absorbing surface; it is merely an anfractuosity, separating the corpus callosum from the convolutions, and lined by the pia mater like all other anfractuosities. On continuing to remove successive portions of the hemisphere, it is found that it can be sepa- rated without any laceration from the corpus callosum much farther than the point at which the pia mater is reflected, and that the hemisphere and_ corpus callosum are simply in contact with each other ; the fibres of the hemisphere are seen to be longitudinal, whilst those of the corpus callosum are transverse. From this observation it follows, that the middle or free portion of the corpus caUosum (shown in fig. 277.) is but a small part of that body. The corpus callosum reaches much nearer to the anterior (a:) than tp the posterior Qf) extremity of the cerebrum, being an inch and some lines distant from the former, and from two to three inches from the latter. Its length is about three inches and a half; it is broader behind than in front; its breadth behind varies from eight to ten lines, if we include the part whkh is covered by the hemispheres: its thickness, which can be properly sho^n only upon a vertical section (see fig. 282.), along the middle line, is not uniform throughout; its thickest part is at the posterior extremity (/), which is about three lines thick : in front of this extremity it diminishes abruptly, and is scarcely a line or a line and a half in thickness (d) ; it then gradually increases from behind forwards, and is about two lines thick at its anterior extremity, opposite the point of its reflection (e). In /om the corpus callosum resembles an arch or vault, so that it would deserve the name of vault or fornix better than the part usually so called. Its vaulted form is distinctly shown upon a longitudinal vertical section (^fig. 282.), and at the same time it is seen that the posterior extremity of the corpus callosum is roUed up, as it were, so as to form an enlargement, whUe its anterior extremity is merely reflected downwards and backwards, and after its reflection becomes gradually thinner as it descends, and terminates in a very delicate lamella. The corpus callosum presents for our consideration a superior and an in- ferior surface and two extremities. The superior surface is convex, and as it were arched from before backwards (medullaris arcus) ; it has no raphe along the median line, but presents in that situation a slight groove (e, fig. 277.), depending on the existence of two white longitudinal tracts, one on each side the middle line, which were regarded by Lancisi as constituting a nerve, the longitudinal nerve of Lancisi. These tracts are subject to variations: thus they are sometimes slightly flexuous and contiguous to each other, and at other times they unite and then separate. Duverney has described certain ash-coloured longitudinal tracts, but their existence has been denied by most anatomists. The white longitudinal tracts are intersected at right angles by transverse fasciculi, which constitute the corpus callosum. The upper surface of the corpus callosum corresponds to the hemispheres on each side; it is free in the middle, where it corresponds to the arteries of the corpus callosum and to the free margin of the falx, which has appeared to me to approach very closely to the posterior extremity of this body, but not to touch it, so that it could not occasion any depression upon it. The inferior surface of the corpus callosum is concave, and is free over a * According to Hallcr, its name is derived from its whiteness, which has been compared to n^rf'^lh"''!,"!''' T"""'' •'"=™>'<>,'n8 to others, it was Kivon on account of the consistence of this part, which has been erroneously regarded as exceeding that of other parts of the brain