CONTENTS OF ge ^.^ THE SECOND VOLUME. ^ ANGEIOLOGY. Definition and objects of Angeiology ------ Page 639 The Heart. jti.tT.u- and Functions. — Tlie pericardium General descripdon. — External and internal conformation. - Structure. - Developement.^— The Arteries. Definition. —Nomenclature. — Origin. — Varieties. — Course. — Anastomoses. — Form and relations. —Termination. —Structure.— Preparation - - - - 659 Description of the Arteries. The Pulmonary Artery. Preparation. —Description. —Relations.—Size.—Developement - - - 664 The Aorta. Preparation. —Definition. —Situation. —Direction. — Size.—Division into the arch of the aorta, the thoracic aorta, and the abdominal aorta . - . . cCi Collateral Branches of the Aorta. Enumeration and classification. — Arteries arising from the aorta at its origin, viz. the coronary or cardiac. — Arteries arising from the thoracic aorta, viz. the bronchial, the oesophageal, the intercostal. — Arteries arising from the abdominal aorta, viz. the lumbar, the inferior phrenic, the cceliac axis, including the coronary of the stomach, the hepatic, and the splenic, the superior mesenteric, the inferior mesenteric, the spermatic, the renal, and the suprarenal or cap- . sular -. 669 Arteries arising from the Arch of the Aorta. Enumeration and varieties The common carotids The external carotid — the superior thyroid — the facial — the lingual — the occipital — the posterior auricular — the parotid — the ascending pharyngeal — the temporal — the internal maxillary.— The internal carotid — the ophthalmic — the cerebral branches of the internal carotid Summary of the distribu- tion of the common carotids Artery of the upper extremity. — The brachio-cephalic. — The right and left subclavians — the vertebral and its cerebral branches, with remarks on the arteries of the brain, cerebellum, and medulla — the inferior thyroid—the supra-scapular — the posterior scapular — the internal mammary — the deep cervical — the superior intercostal. — The axillary — the acromio-thoracic — the long thoracic — the subscapular — the posterior circumflex — the anterior circumflex The brachial and its collateral branches The radial, its collateral branches, and the deep palmar arch. — The ulnar, its collateral branches, and the superficial palmar arch. — General remarks on the arteries of the upper extremity - -- -- -- -- 6S2 Arteries arising from the Termination of the Aorta. Enumeration. — The middle sacral. — The common illacs. — The internal iliac, or hypogastric — the umbilical —the vesical —the middle haimorrhoidal — the uterine — the vaginal the obturator — the ilio-lumbar — the lateral sacral — the gluta;al — the sciatic — the internal pudic— Summary of the distribution of the internal iliac Artery of the lower extremity. — The external iliac —the epigastric —the circumflex iliac. — The femoral —the superficial epigastric — the external pudic —the muscular — the deep femoral, its circumflex and per. forating branches. — The popliteal and its collateral branches The anterior tibial and the dorsal artery of the foot. — The tibio-peroneal — peroneal — posterior tibial, and the internal and external plantar. — Comparison between the arteries of the upper and lower extre- mities