THE MEMBRANOUS LABYRINTH. 905 265.). Both the situation and nature of this communication can be easily as- certained, and have been well described by Soemmerring, and more recently by MM. Breschet and Huguier. The lamina spiralis, which, we ha,Te seen, adheres closely to the modiolus, continues to wind spirally around the half-funnel-shaped termination of the modiolus, but when it arrives opposite the concavity of this half funnel, it ceases 'to be attached to that concavity, its internal border becomes free, and is then continued on to the inner surface of the summit of the cochlea. It follows therefore that the free concave border of the lamina spiralis is op- posite to the concavity of the infundibulum ; and hence there is an interruption in the septum, in the form of a circular opening, the canalis scalarum communis of Cassebohm, the helicotrema of Breschet {n,figs. 263. 265.), which establishes a communication between the two scalae : moreover, this opening is not situated precisely at the summit of the scalae, but a little below that point; nor is the opening of communication (between t and s, fig. 265.) between the vestibular scala and the vestibule situated at the lowest part of that scala. The aqueduct of the cochlea. The aqueduct of the cochlea opens at one end (n,fig. 259.) into the tympanic scala of the cochlea near the fenestra rotunda, and at the other, by an expanded extremity, upon the lower border of the petrous portion of the temporal bone near the jugular fossa. It does not ap- pear to have any such use as was attributed to it by Cotugno. Like the aque- duct of the vestibule, it is merely a canal for a vessel, and as such was denomi- nated by WUdberg, canalis venosus cochlece. The liquor Cotunnii could not pass through this canal, for it is closed by the dura mater. Ilg has taken a very ingenious view of the structure of the modiolus and cochlea. According to that author, the modiolus is not an osseous centre independent of the lamina gyrorum, but rather the internal wall of the spii-al tube of the cochlea, which in describing its first turn intercepts a considerable cylindrical space of about two lines and a half in diameter, and then a smaller but still cylindrical space, of about half a line in diameter, in its second turn ; whilst in the third turn there is no space, and therefore the axis or modiolus is wanting, but it is re- placed by the internal wall of the spiral tube of the cochlea itself. The ter- minal lamella of the modiolus would therefore be formed by the internal wall of the spiral tube. This view is supported by the structure of the bottom of the internal audi- tory meatus, on which is found a turn and a half of a spiral groove, precisely corresponding to the spire of the coclilea, and by sections of the cochlea made after Soemmerring's plan from the apex to the base. {Vide figs. 11,12,13, 14, 15. of Soemmerring's fourth plate.) The Membranous Labyrinth. The mevtbranous labyrinth, discovered by Comparetti and Scarpa, has been correctly described and figured by Soemmerring. M. Breschet has recently enriched our knowledge of this intricate anatomical subject, with many most interesting facts. (Etudes anatomiques et pkjsiologiques sur Vorgane de Vouie et sur I'audition dans I'hamme tt les animaux vertebres, 1833.) It is useless to attempt the examination of the membranous labyrinth in the human subject without some previous preparation. If the labyrinth be opened. It IS found to contam a fluid ; the eye can detect nothing else! By previously macerating it m diluted nitric acid, the twofold advantage is gained of softening the bones, so that they can be cut with a scalpel, and of hardening and ren- dering opaque the nervous tissues. Before studying the membranous labyrinth in the human subject, it should first be examined in the large cartilaginous fishes, such as the ray and the turbot, in which it is most highly developed It IS then seen that the semicircular canals and the vestibule contain, besides a fluid, certam semi-transparent membranous tubes and sacs, the aspect of which closely resembles that of tlie retina.