COMPARATIVE ANATOMY OF THE CEREBELLUM. 967 is there any distinction between the middle and lateral parts. At the sixth month the cerebeUum is divided by the posterior notch, the different orders of fissures are visible, and the corpus dentatum has acquired considerable size Durini? the last three months of intra-uterine existence, the lateral lobes generally acquire that predominance over the middle lobe which is found to hold after birth. , , , „ j As the developement of the spinal cord precedes that of the cerebellum, and as thecerebeUum appears to be formed by a prolongation of the posterior fas- cicuU of the cord, does it foUow that that organ is a production or an ex- pansion of the cord ? Certainly not; all that we can conclude is, that they are developed in succession. Reil and Tiedemann have advanced the opinion, that the cerebeUum is secreted by the pia mater, and that the grey matter is deposited the last; but this is only an assertion without demonstration. The cortical substance is formed at the same time as the medullary, and neither of them can be considered as the product of the other. Comparative Anatomy of the Cerebellum. In fishes the cerebellum is generally small, but in the ray and shark it is large, subdivided into convolutions, and prolonged above the optic lobes in front, and above the lobe of the eighth pair of nerves behind. In the silures, as Weber has observed, the cerebellum is relatively as large as the human cerebrum; for it covers the posterior half of the cerebral lobes, as the cere- brum in man covers the cerebellum. In all fishes the cerebeUum contains a considerable cavity. In some of this class of animals it is subdivided into segments, laminse, and lamellae. * Reptiles. There is no cerebeUum in the batrachia (as in the frog, toad), and ophidia (serpents); most anatomists, however, admit its existence in a rudimentary state. It is very smaU, and shaped Uke a roof, or vaulted, in the chelonians (tortoise) ; it is very long in the saurians (lizard, crocodile). Birds. The cerebeUum is very large, and represents an ellipsoid, having its long diameter directed vertically. It is deeply and regularly traversed by horizontal fissures, which are curved downwards on the upper half, and up- wards on the lower half of the organ. They all terminate opposite two small tubercles or appendages situated one at each extremity of the transverse diameter. Upon a section of the cerebeUum of birds is seen an arbor vitse, composed of white substance covered with grey matter. Mammalia. In the three classes already examined, the cerebeUum has merely a middle lobe: in all mammaUa there are also lateral lobes. They are at first smaU, like appendages as in the rodentia, in which the cerebel- lum differs but little from that of birds; they gradually increase in size as we proceed upwards in the scale, until they reach their highest state of per- fection in man, the developement of whose cerebrum and cerebeUum exceeds that of the same parts in aU the lower animals. In mammaUa the size of the lateral lobes of the cerebeUum is directly proportioned to that of the oli- vary bodies, the existence of which in this class Vicq d'Azyr has erroneously denied. • [It is divided into segments by deep transverse furrows in some cartilaginous fisiies.]