1020 NEUROLOGY. This theory of superadded or respiratory nerves is very ingenious, but al- together hypothetical. Besides, it is only strictly applicable in the case of four nerves, viz. the pneumogastric, the glosso-pharyngeal, the spinal accessory, and the facial. Sir C. Bell's opinion concerning the existence of a column situated between the anterior and posterior roots of the nerves, along the whole extent of the spinal cord, and giving origin to certain filaments which combine with those coming from the two roots so as to cause them to parti- cipate in the great phenomena of respiration, is quite gratuitous. On endeavouring to decide whether there are several kinds of nerves by anatomical investigation, it is found that, excepting the olfactory, optic, and acoustic nerves, which have altogether a peculiar arrangement, and the gan- glionic nerves, which are generally greyer and more slender, there is no dif- ference in the character and structure of the nerves of different parts of the body. The cutaneous nervous filaments are exactly similar to the muscular nervous filaments. From the law of organisation, that identity of structure is always connected with identity of function, I have been led to admit that the nerves are }w7no- geneous; that the different properties attributed to them belong to the organs to which they are distributed; and that they perform no other oflSce in the economy than that of conductors,—conductors of sensation when they are dis- tributed to a sensory organ, and conductors of motor influence when they enter a motor organ.* This view of the homogeneous structure of the nerves ex- plains much more readily than the opposite one, all the phenomena of in- nervation, and in particular the unity of all parts of the nervous system. Moreover, if we admit the existence of special nerves to preside over some special phenomena, and to be distributed to particular organs, why not admit them for all special actions and for all organs ? There would then have to be digestive nerves, generative nerves, and secreting nerves of different kinds. Course, Plexuses, and Anastomoses of the Nerves. The course of the nerves must be examined both whilst they are within and whilst they are outside the cranio-vertebral cavity. Within this cavity the extent of their course is variable ; and their distribution, after they have emerged from it, is more or less complicated. All, or nearly all, the cerebro- spinal nerves communicate with the great sympathetic system. When the parts to which they are destined are not complicated, their distribution is very simple, as, for example, the nerves of the thoracic and abdominal parietes; but when those parts are complicated, the arrangement of the nerves is pro- portionally intricate ; and they then unite so as to form certain interlacements called plexuses, as, for example, the thoracic and abdominal plexuses. The nervous plexuses, which Bichat regarded as so many centres in which the branches of origin of the nerves ended, and from which their terminal branches commenced, are formed by the division and subdivision of a certain number of nerves, which enter into new combinations, and form an almost inextricable interlacement. Within these plexuses there is generally so intimate a combination of the different elements of which they are composed, that it is almost impossible to determine exactly what branches of origin are concerned in the formation of any particular terminal branch. A branch of a nerve issuing from a plexus belongs therefore to all the nerves which enter into the composition of that plexus. , The plexuses do not consist of actual anastomoses of the nervous cords ; nor do they, as Monro believed, contain any grey matter: they do not afford * The homogeneous structure Of the different nerves is proved by 'he.anatomical fac^^^ the same nerve is distributed to a great number of organs havmg very different ' for example, the eighth pair ; and also by a fact in comparative anatomy n|Uine y, the same pair of nerves may, in different species, preside over totally different functions - for example, the fifth pair.