916 NEUROLOGY. The lymphatic vessels observed, appear rather to belong to the aracliuoid. The nerves of this membrane have not yet been demonstrated; but ex- periments upon living animals, especially upon dogs, have convinced me that the cranial, and probably also the spinal portion of the dura mater, although insensible to the knife, are extremely sensible to laceration. The Arachnoid. The cerebro-spinal axis is surrounded by a serous membrane named the arachnoid, which, like all membranes of this kind, forms a shut sac, adherent by its external surface, but free and smooth on its internal surface. We shall first describe the cranial and then the spinal portion of the arachnoid. The Cranial Portion of the Arachnoid. Dissection. The arachnoid may be shown upon the convex surface of the brain -without any preparation, if the sub-arachnoid cellular tissue be infiltrated. It can also be very easily demonstrated by blowing air under it. The arachnoid membrane, which, from its extreme tenuity, was for a long time confounded with the pia mater, was demonstrated by Ruysch upon the convex surface of the brain by injecting air beneath it; it was shewn by Varolius upon the base of that organ, and its arrangement in that situation was figured by Casserius. It was described first by the Anatomical Society of Amsterdam as a special membrane covering the brain, under the name of the arachnoid; and Bichat, reasoning from analogy, demonstrated that it not only forms a covering for the brain, but is also reflected upon the dura mater, and lines it through its whole extent. He also believed that it was continuous with the lining membrane of the ventricles, an error which has been successfully re- futed by M. Magendie. Like all serous membranes, the arachnoid presents a visceral and a parietal layer. Tlie Visceral Layer of the Arachnoid. The visceral layer of the cranial portion of the arachnoid requires to be ex- amined upon the convex surface and the base of the brain. Upon the base of the brain, the arachnoid is separated from this organ in a great number of points, and more particularly as it is passing from one lobe to another. We shall examine in detail the arrangement of this part of the membrane. Jn the median line, in front, it dips between the anterior lobes of the brain, but only at the fore part; behind, it connects these lobes by passing directly from one to the other ; it covers the lower surface of the optic nerves and optic commissure, then the tuber cinereura and the infundibulum, for the latter of which it forms a sheath, and is then reflected above the pituitary body ; from the tuber cinereum it passes across to the pons Varolii, leaving a hollow space between it and the brain, which is traversed by a few dense fibrous filaments. I shall call this space the anterior sub-arachnoid space; it may be regarded as the principal reservoir of the serous fluid of the cranium. In the median line, behind, the arachnoid lines the furrow between the pos- terior lobes of the brain, and is reflected from the corpus callosum upon the superior vermiform process of the cerebellum : at this point it meets with the vense Galeni and generally forms a circular fold around them, which was compared by Bichat to the foramen of Winslow in the peritoneum, and which he supposed to be the orifice of an arachnoid canal, which opened into the third ventricle beneath the velum interpositum. . The arachnoid covers the whole upper surface of the cerebellum; and having reached the great circumference of that organ, it passes like a bridge trom one hemisphere to the other, and from the cerebellum itself to ^fvoster^j^^^ of the spinal cord. In thus passing from one hemisphere of the cerebellum lo