THE ANTERIOR LOBES OF THE CEREBRUM. 977 Z 2 The Lateral Regions of the Base of the Cerebrum. The base of the cerebrum is divided on each side into two lobes, an anterior a.nd a. posterior, separated by the fissure of Sylvius * The Fissure of Sylvius. This is a fissure of considerable size (grande scissure interlobulaire, Chauss.), which commences at the corresponding anterior extremity of the great trans- verse fissure, with which it forms an obtuse angle. At the point where they meet is found a white substance f, perforated with large openings for blood- vessels ; this Vicq d'Azyr has named the anterior perforated substance; it is the locus perforatus anterior {li). The fissure of Sylvius (y, fig. 27 6.) is directed outwards, and describes a slight curve, having its convexity turned forwards : it corresponds to the posterior border of the lesser wings of the sphenoid bone, which are received into it. The fissure of Sylvius cannot be properly examined until both the arachnoid and pia mater have been removed. It is then found to be very deep: it is seen that the middle cerebral artery runs along the bottom of it, that the pia mater lines it throughout, and that it soon divides into two branches, of which the anterior is the smaller, and continues in the original course of the fissure; whilst the posterior, which is of much greater extent, passes upwards and backwards, along the convex surface of the hemisphere, and terminates after proceeding a variable distance; the interval betvpeen these two secondary furrows is occupied by a sort of island (insula, Beil), which might be called the lobule of the fissure of Sylvius, or the lobule o f the corpus striatum. This lobule is of a triangular form, having its base directed upwards and its apex downwards ; it is marked by certain small superficial convolutions, which radiate from below upwards. It wiU be found immediately that this lobule corresponds to and is moulded upon the corpus striatum, which is some- times so large as to push the lobule beyond the fissure, so that it reaches the surface of the brain, and appears to belong to the anterior lobe. The Anterior and Posterior Lobes of the Cerebrum. Several anatomists describe three lobes in each hemisphere upon the base of the brain, namely, an anterior (a), a middle (c), and a posterior (6); but there are only two — an anterior (a), which rests upon the orbital plate of the frontal bone, is moulded upon its irregularities, and is received into the con- cavity of that bone, and a posterior (c 6), which rests upon the corresponding spheno-temporal fossa and the tentorium cerebelli. The anterior third of this posterior lobe, or the portion which corresponds to the spheno-temporal fossa, is convex, and projects from six to nine lines below the level of the inferior surface of the anterior lobe. The posterior two thirds are slightly concave; they correspond to the tentorium cerebeUi, and are placed upon the same level as the anterior lobe. The convex sphenoidal portion of the posterior lobe forms what is generally called the middle lobe, and the posterior or cerebeUar portion what is then named the posterior lobe. I believe that it is useful in many respects to apply the terms frontal horn (cornu frontale) to the anterior extremity of the cerebrum, which is received into the concavity of the frontal bone, sphenoidal horn to the anterior extremity of the posterior lobe, and occipital horn to the posterior extremity of the same lobe. ..^li^AT',?,"'"'^.'"? '° other anatomists : an anterior (o, ^. 27G.), a middle (c), and a pos- t [Light grey.] "■'