NEUROLOGY. 1022 several nerves, the number of these being variable. As the arteries ofteu deviate from their original direction, they describe certain turns, so as to oc cupy alternately the opposite sides of a limb. Now, !is the nerves pass in a straight direction, and the arteries describe certain curves, it follows that the same nerves cannot accompany the same arteries during the whole of their course. Thus when an artery deviates from its primitive direction, it has two satellite nerves, one during the first, and the other during the second part of its course. For instance, the crural nerve accompanies the femoral artery, and the sciatic nerve the popliteal artery. When an artery bifurcates or otherwise divides, there is often a particular nerve for each subdivision ; thus the median nerve is the satellite of the brachial artery, the radial nerve ac- companies the radial artery, and the ulnar nerve the ulnar artery. It follows also from what has been said, that the nerves have no accom- panying vessel for a more or less considerable portion of their course ; such is the case with the great sciatic and the pneumogastric nerves. The relations of the arteries with the nerves are constant, so that modern surgeons attach great importance to these relations; in fact, as a nerve on account of its whiteness is more easily recognised than an artery, as soon as the fonner is exposed the latter is immediately met with. It is important moreover to determine with the greatest accuracy what nerves are contained within, and what nerves are situated without, the sheath of their corresponding artery. Besides its principal nervous trunk, an artery is also accompanied by certain nervous filaments, which are closely applied to the vessels, which are very difficult to separate from it, and which often escape observation from their tenuity. These are the filaments which render ligature of the arteries so painful. Division of the nerves. During their course, the nerves do not divide like the vessels by ramifying into smaller and smaller branches : but they give off in succession as they proceed branches to the different parts through which they are passing, and thus become gradually exhausted, until reduced to mere filaments themselves they terminate in the same manner as their branches. The subdivision of nerves, therefore, does not consist in a ramification but in a process of separation or emission. There is one circumstance which has attracted the attention of all anatomists, viz. that the nerves do not di- minish in size, in proportion to the number of filaments given off from them: some of them even appear to increase in size after having given off several filaments. This apparent singularity is explained, not by the fact that new filaments are added, but by the flattening of the nerve, the separation of its filaments, the addition of a certain quantity of adipose tissue, or the thickening of the neurilemma. Termination of Nerves. The distribution of the nerves is perfectly determinate ; each nerve indeed has its own distinctly limited department; an arrangement which, connected with what has already been said regarding the anastomoses, explains why the nerves cannot supply the place of each other. When the principal arterial trunk of a limb is tied, the circulation is re-established by the collateral vessels; but when a nerve is cut across, all the parts to which it is distributed are paralysed. The termination of the nerves is undoubtedly one of the most important points in their anatomy. In the skin, the nerves terminate in the papilla;, not one of which is destitute of them ; in the muscles, they terminate in extremely delicate filaments, which pursue a very long course in the substance of these organs, before they become invisible to the naked eye or to the eye aided by a lens : it has appeared to me that each nervous filament was so arranged as to be in contact with a very great number of muscular fibres, situated either in the same or in different planes.