ANGEIOLOGY. 814 hitherto been only partially displayed, but the analogy between these and serous membranes is so close, that I have no doubt of their identity in this respect. I have, moreover, found the lymphatic vessels of the aorta filled •with blood in several cases of degeneration of the coats of that vessel. Origin of the lymphatics in the free cellular tissue. In order to exhibit the origin of the lymphatics in this situation, I injected coloured liquids, such as ink, into the subcutaneous and intermuscular cellular tissue in several animals, and I found the lymphatic vessels, and the corresponding lymphatic glands, of a jet black colour. I made a great number of experiments to induce absorp- tion of mercury, by injecting it either into the cellular tissue, or into a serous cavity; but the metallic mercury always acted like a foreign body, the me- chanical effect of which produced more or less inflammation, but it was never absorbed. I have found pus in both the superficial and deep lymphatics, and in the lymphatic glands of the groin, after phlegmonous erysipelas and acute ab- scesses of the leg; but it is not proved that the presence of this pus was the result of absorption. It is more probable that it had been produced by in- flammation of the lymphatics themselves. Although it is impossible to demonstrate, anatomically, the presence of lymphatics in the free cellular tissue, it is most probable that that tissue, as well as the serous membranes, with which it has so many analogies, is formed by this kind of vessels. Mascagni stated that all the white tissues consist of lymphatic vessels, and that the lymphatic system forms the basis of the whole body. From the preceding observations it may be stated, that, with the exception of the lacteals which open upon the summits of the villi*, all the lymphatic vessels of free surfaces arise by an exceedingly delicate network; M. Fohmann believes that all the lymphatics commence by a network of closed vessels.f I have never been able to discover the lymphatic networks, either in the nervous substance, in muscles, glands, or in the fibrous, cartilaginous, and os- seous tissues. Course of the Lymphatics, From the networks above described, the lymphatics themselves arise, and, in all the organs, are divided into a deep and a superficial set. The' former set accompany the deep vessels of the organ, whUst the others follow the super- ficial veins in such parts of the body as are provided with them. In those organs which are covered with a serous coat, they appear to be contained within the substance of that membrane. The lymphatics run parallel with each other, and communicate pretty frequently by bifurcating, and then join- ing the neighbouring vessels ; but they do not converge towards each other, nor do they, like the veins, unite successively into a smaller and smaller number of larger and larger branches ; thus their increase in size is not progressive; and it might even be said, that throughout their whole course they undergo no decided increase nor diminution. Their direction is slightly tortuous, (In^jr. 224. are shown short portions of lymphatics of different sizes.) Anastomoses. We do not find in the lymphatics those numerous and im- portant anastomoses which form such characteristic points in the history of the arteries and veins. These vessels present only one kind of anastomosis, which is accomplished in the following manner: a lymphatic, after a certain course, divides into two equal branches, which diverge at a very acute angle ; these two branches anastomose with two other lymphatics, each of which communicates » rWhether the lacteals commence In each villus by a network, or by free closed extremities ,s notVet dc?ermrned ; but they form no exception to the rule that the absorbent vessels arise by closed extremities, and not by open mouths See Vol. I. P-''87.] t [These networks are arranged m layers, the most superficial of which is formeo oy inc finest vessels, and has the smallest meshes.]