1007 GENERAL IDEA OF THE BRAIN. The ventricles and convolutions. The formation of ventricles is considered by Gall to be the necessary result of the divergence of some fasciculi and the convergence of others. His description of the convolutions is entirely new, and one cannot but regret that it should be disfigured by the hypothesis of converging and diverging fibres. The following is his mode of describing these parts, which he regards as the completion and final object of the organisation of the brain, and as per- forming the most elevated functions. Gall admits two layers in each convolution; and he finds that these two layers can always be readily separated, but only in the median line. He successfully proves, in opposition to the commission of the Institute, that the convolutions^are not composed of a white, soft, and pulpy matter resembling pommade or jelly, but that they have a fibrous or linear structure. * Unfolding of the cerebrum. The idea of unfolding the brain, which is nothing more than opening out the convolutions, was derived by Gall from his view of the structure of the convolutions, which he regarded as formed of two layers united by very delicate cellular tissue. It was also suggested to him by the examination of hydrocephalic brains, in which he conceived there was no dis- organisation but merely an unfolding of the convolutions. The following is his method of unfolding the brain : — after having very carefully removed the meninges, he introduced his fingers into the great transverse fissure between the optic thalamus and the hippocampus major, and thus penetrated into the lateral ventricles: he then pressed gently against the outside of the ventricles; he broke down the white matter of the hemispheres, until he reached the base of the convolutions, which then necessarily became unfolded, so as to be moulded upon the back of his hand; the astonished spectators would have wondered less if they had seen the lacerations necessary to produce this result. The unfolding of the brain is impossible, if Gall's views be correct; for, according to him, the white fibres of the brain are not all of equal length, and those which correspond to the anfractuosities are much shorter than those corresponding to the convolutions ; besides, I am convinced, that, in hydro- cephalus, the convolutions are not unfolded, but are atrophied, flattened, and compressed against each other. Such are the principal ideas of Gall regarding the structure of the brain.f His system undoubtedly contains numerous errors and imperfections; but, nevertheless, it has established a new era in the study of the anatomy of this organ. General Idea of the Brain. 1. The decussation of the. pyramidal fasciculi of the medulla oblongata, their passage through the pons Varolii, their continuity with the cerebral peduncles, of which they form the lower portion, their passage through the optic thalamus, and their expansion within the corpora striata (A, ^o. 284 ) through which they may be traced Qi h h) as far as the convolutions, are in- contestable facts. 2. Again : it is no less certain that the fascicuU of reinforcement of the * See note, j). 1011. netvIs''e/Sn°alut%^^^^^^^^ peripheral extremities of the t"he;eHn?fstn'cxcenem°Jirpr^^^^ forced in thpir nassiuo (hrni.oh j;Vr I'"""'ive laspiculi of the brain, after being rem. ronvolu't"ons an<f ?lc^fv'e a criring ^f^?/;lHer"''2°TK7 fi"'"'? the VOL. II. B B