ANGEIOLOGV. 768 vein must be much the shorter; it is, in fact, only from twelve to fourteen lines m length, whilst that of the left side is twice as long. They difiFer also in caliber, the left brachio-cephalic trunk being much larger than the right, in consequence of receiving the internal mammary and inferior thyroid veins of its own side. Also in direction, the right being almost vertical, and sloping only slightly to the left side as it descends, like the saper;or vena cava, which follows the very same direction ; the left vein, on the contrary, is almost horizontal, and describes a curve with its concavity directed backwards; the two brachio- cephalic veins, therefore, unite at a right angle to form the vena cava. Lastly, they have different relations. The concavity of the left vein embraces the front of the highest part of the aortic arch, and the three great arteries arising from it. It corresponds anteriorly with the sternal extremity of the left clavicle and the sterno-elavicular articulation, and runs along the upper border of the sternum. The right vein is situated in the right cavity of the thorax; it is parallel with, and on the outer side of, the brachio-cephalic artery, and it is in contact behind and on the right side with the right wall of the mediastinum and with the pneumogastric nerve, which are interposed between it and the apex of the lung. The relations of the left brachio-cephalic vein with the arch of the aorta account for its obliteration in aneurism of that vessel, and its relation to the upper part of the sternum explains the venous pulse, seen so distinctly opposite the fourchette of the sternum in severe attacks of dyspnoea. There are no valves in the interior of these veins, and hence considerable regurgitation may occur. Collateral branches. The right brachio-cephalic vein, in some cases, receives only the vertebral vein; but most commonly the right inferior thyroid and right internal mammary veins terminate in it. The left brachio-cephalic vein always receives the above-mentioned veins of its own side, and also the superior phrenic, the thymic, and pericardiac veins, and often the superior intercostal vein. As this last forms part of the system of the vena azygos, it will be described in another place. TTie Inferior Thyroid Veins.. There are two of these, viz. a right and a left inferior thyroid vein: not unfrequently there are three and even four. The course of the inferior thyroid veins corresponds exactly with that of the inferior thyroid artery of Neubauer, when it exists. They arise from the thyroid venous plexuses, and sometimes directly from the superior thyroid vein by an anastomotic arch ; they descend vertically between the trachea and the muscles of the sub-hyoid region, and terminate differently on the right and left sides, the right inferior thyroid vein terminating at the junction of the two brachio-cephalic veins, and sometimes even in the upper and anterior part of the superior vena cava, whilst the vein of the left side enters the corre- sponding brachio-cephalic vein. In one case in which there were three inferior thyroid veins, the middle one ended in the superior cava, and the two lateral veins in the corresponding brachio-cephalic trunks. .... These veins, moreover, present innumerable varieties in their number, course, anastomoses, and termination. One of the most curious and frequent of these varieties is that in which the right and left veins form an arch, which receives four or five parallel branches that issue from the thyroid gland. The inferior thyroid veins are joined by the tracheal and inferior laryngeal veins, so that Winslow named them guttural or tracheal. They form, in front of the trachea, a large plexus, which it is impossible to avoid in performmg tracheotomy.