NEUROLOGY. It forms a continuation of the lumbar portion of the sympathetic : but some- times there appears to be an interruption in the ganglionic chaili, between the lifth lumbar ganglion and the first sacral. This interruption is merely apparent; it is never complete. The sacral trunks of the sympathetic of the rignt and left sides gradually approach each other as they descend, corre- sponding in this respect to the anterior sacral foramina. The sacral ganglia which are rarely five, more commonly four, and some- times three in number, are occasionally collected into a small gangliform en- largement, situated between the first and second anterior sacral foramen; the first sacral ganglion is sometimes double, and at other times it rather re- sembles a gangliform cord than a true ganglion. The mode of connexion between the first sacral and the last lumbar gan- glion is subject to much variety.* The manner in which the sacral portion of the sympathetic terminates is also somewhat variable. The following is the arrangement most generally admitted: a filament proceeds from the last sacral ganglion, which is usually the fourth, and forms an anastomotic arch with its fellow of the opposite side in front of the base of the coccyx. At their point of junction is often found a small ganglion (ganglion impar, c), from which certain terminal filaments are given off. Sometimes there is neither a coccygeal ganglion nor any anastomosis, properly so called, but the terminal filaments are distributed in the usual way. I have not been able to trace these filaments beyond the periosteum of the coccyx and the sacro- sciatic ligaments. Like the other ganglia of the sympathetic the sacral ganglia present; com- mtmicating branches with each other ; rather large external branches derived from the corresponding sacral nerves; internal branches which anastomose with those of the opposite side, in front of the sacrum, and surround the middle sacral artery. Some of these filaments I have distinctly seen entering the substance of the sacrum; and lastly, very small anterior branches (j/), some of which join the hypogastric plexuses, whilst the others terminate directly upon the rectum. General View or the Sympathetic System. The following dissection is necessary, in order to present a correct general idea of the sympathetic system. Take a spinal column which has been macerated in diluted nitric acid, re- move the bodies of the vertebrce, leaving, if it be wished, the intervertebral substances; be very careful to preserve the branches of communication be- tween the sympathetic and the cranial and spinal nerves. It is then clearly seen that the two gangliated trunks of the sympathetic are connected with the cerebro-spinal axis by as many roots or small groups of roots ] as there are cranial and spinal nerves ; it is, moreover, no less evident that the communicating branches between the ganglionic chain and the spinal nerves do not proceed from the ganglia, but from the spinal nerves ; so that it may be stated as a demonstrated anatomical fact, that the sympathetic system has its origin in the cerebro-spinal system. % The sympathetic trunks of the right and left side generally anastomose below in "front of the coccyx; it has been somewhat hastily affirmed that they * In one case the continuation of the lumbar portion of the sympathetic deviated outwards, and joined the fifth lumbar nerve ; a very small filament only formed the communication be- tween the last lumbar ganglion and the first sacral. In another case these two filaments pro- ceeded from the last lumbar ganglion of the right side, the inner of which joined the first sacral ganglion of the opposite side, crossing over the sacro-vertebral angle. t It must be remembered that there are always two, and sometimes three communicating branches between the sympathetic and each of the spinal nerves. i These facts in human anatomy are in perfect accordance with the observations ni com- parative anatomy made by Meckel and Weber, namely, that the developement of the sj-mpathetic system is in direct ratio with that of the cereliro-spnial system -, that the former is more de- veloped in man thiui in any other animal, and is iiroportionally larger in the foetus th.an m tlie adult.