665 THE AORTA. riosus, proceeds in the original direction of the artery, and is attached to the concavity of the arch of the aorta opposite the left subclavian artery. At its origin the pubnonary artery is covered externally by the highest fibres of the infundibiilum ; internally it is provided with three sigmoid moveable valves {a a a, fig. 196.), which, when depressed, completely close the mouth of the vessel. By careful dissection it is found, that the pulmonary artery is cut at its origin into three festoons, corresponding to the sigmoid valves, and that it is connected to the tissue of the heart by its internal coat, which is con- tinuous with the lining membrane of the right cavities of the heart; and also by prolongations given off from the fibrous zone, and attached to the convex borders of the three festoons, and to the angular intervals between them. Relations. In front and on the left side the pulmonary artery is convex, and covered by the serous layer of the pericardium, which is often separated from it by some fat; behind and on the right side it is concave, and is in relation with the aorta, which it embraces. The right and left auricles are in contact with its corresponding sides. Size. The left branch of the pulmonary artery is about one inch in length ; it is in relation behind with the left bronchus, one of the bronchial arteries often passing between them ; it is in indirect relation with the aorta. In front, it is covered by the serous layer of the pericardium, excepting near the lungs, where the pulmonary veins are placed in front of the arterial branches. The right division of the pulmonary artery is from sixteen to eighteen lines in length; it is in relation in front with the vena cava superior, and with the ascending portion of the aorta, but not immediately, for the serous layer of the pericardium covers both the aorta and the corresponding part of the pulmonary artery. Behind, it is in relation with the right bronchus, and passes above the right auricle. Developement. In the foetus, instead of the fibrous cord, which we have de- scribed as proceeding from the point at which the pulmonary artery divides into its two branches *, there is a canal called the ductus arteriosus, almost equal in diameter to the pulmonary artery itself, the course of which vessel it pursues; at this time the right and left branches of the pulmonary artery are very small. At birth the whole of the venous blood proceeds to the lungs, none of it passing through the ductus arteriosus, which then becomes obliterated. THE AORTA. Preparation Definition. — Situation. — Direction. — Size. — Division into the arch of the aorta, the thoracic aorta, and the abdominal aorta. Preparation. The aorta may be studied without having been injected.f In order to study it in an injected subject, the median incision made for the pm-- pose of introducing the injection must be prolonged down to the pubes. Then disarticulate the clavicles, separate the two sides of the thorax, even so far as to break some of the ribs, and keep them separate by introducing a piece of wood; cut through the abdominal parietes, and turn the left lung over to the right side. The aorta (aopTT], arteria magna, arteriarum omnium mater; abed, fig. 198.), the common origin of all the arteries of the human body, commences at the left ventricle, and terminates by bifurcating (at d), opposite the fourth lumbar vertebra. Situation. It is situated deeply in the thoracic and abdominal cavities, along tnlhiM^u ^7 Haller and Senac, that the ductus arteriosus in the fcstus, and the cord to which it IS reduced after birth, arise not from the angle nf division into the riKlit and loft S r„?'Y^M'"'f' I™.? pulmonary artery itself: this is an interesting and im- portant fact in reference to the developement of the great vessels issuing from the hefrt 1 alrt.ady'7"enexSdr"' '° ^'"-ly "o"" *" "'-^ subject in^hich the discern have