671 THE AORTIC INTERCOSTAL ARTERIES. after running along the trachea, passed in front of the right bronchus, and anas- tomosed freely with the right bronchial furnished by the aorta. The right bronchial artery is always larger than the left. Whatever be their origin, the bronchial arteries pursue a tortuous course to the corresponding bronchus, and are usually situated on its posterior surface. When the right bronchial artery arises from the aorta, it crosses obliquely over the lower part of the trachea. The bronchial arteries always give some branches to the oesophagus ; a very great number to the bronchial glands; also several to the left auricle : they anastomose with the coronary arteries on the one hand, and with the inferior thyroid and the superior intercostal arteries on the other. Haller believes that the terminations of the bronchial arteries anastomose with the divisions of the pulmonary artery, and says that he has seen jfree and evident communications between them.* The (Esophageal Arteries. The (esophageal arteries Qi, fig. 198.) vary in number from three to seven, and are remarkable for their slenderness and length. They arise in succession ft-om the front of the aorta, which they leave at right angles, and immediately curve downwards to reach the front of the oesophagus, where they divide into extremely slender ascending, and into very long descending branches, from which are given off a numerous series of twigs. The superior oesophageal artery almost always anastomoses with the bronchial artei'ies, and the oeso- phageal branches of the inferior thyroid. The inferior oesophageal artery anastomoses with the oesophageal branches derived from the left inferior phrenic and from the coronary artery of the stomach. The branches from the oesophageal arteries perforate the muscular coat of the oesophagus, ramify in the submucous cellular tissue, and terminate in a network in the substance of the mucous membrane. The Aortic Intercostal Arteries. Dissection. In order to see the posterior branches, dissect the posterior spinal muscles, and open the vertebral canal. To see the anterior branches or the intercostals, properly so called, expose these vessels on the inside of the parietes of the chest in the first half of their course, and then on the outside of the chest to their termination. The aortic or inferior intercostals (ii i'i', fig. 198.) so named to distinguish them from the superior mtercostal, a branch of the subclavian, and from the anterior intercostals, derived from the internal mammary, are generally eight or nme in number, the upper two or three intercostal spaces being supplied by the superior intercostal branch of the subclavian. o rt- j The varieties in their number depend upon the number of intercostal spaces which are supplied with branches from the subclavian, and also upon the num- ber ot intercostal arteries which arise by a common trunk. Origin. They arise at various angles from the back of the aorta; the superior generally at an obtuse angle to gain the spaces situated above them ; the succeeding ones at different angles, which are less and less obtuse, and fZfpZf 1 ?™ ^'^'^^^ ^""S^^'- III tJie latter case the vessel -^^rSt JJ/^'^.^- ''^"^^ intercostal space for which it is intended. The right and left mtercostals are of equal size; aad there is Uttle difference in this respect between the superior and the inferior intercostals. ''"'^'^^"'^ i.irrrf T-'f °^ ^"'^^ ^^'"g ^'^'i^ted towards the left side, the right mtercostals (i i) are onger than the left. They turn over the body of efch dorsal vertebra, passing behind the oesophagus, the thoracic ductl and th^ VOL.H. •Seennt^,p.560.