«60 NEUROLOGY.' vertical lines, formed, as we shall see, by the Meibomian glands; an adherent border, which is indicated by the orbital arch in the upper eyelid, but is less clearly defined m the lower lid, in which it is continuous with the cheek ; lastly a/ree border, or margin, which, in both eyelids, is straight when the lids are closed, and curved when they are open : in the latter position they inclose an elliptical space {rima palpebrarum), the dimensions of which vary in different persons, and hence give rise to the expressions large eyes and small eyes, which have no reference to the actual size of the globe of the eye, but merely to the size of that part which is exposed to view. The free margins of the eyelids are not cut obliquely from before backwards, so as to intercept, when they are closed, a three-sided interval or channel, which is completed behind by the globe of the eye, and which is supposed to become larger from without inwards, in order to conduct the tears towards the lachrymal puncta. On the contrary, these margins are cut horizontally from before backwards (see section, fig. 240.); and when approximated, they leave a narrow fissure between them, which may serve as a channel for the tears during sleep, quite as well as the three-sided canal, which is generally supposed to exist. The margins of the eyelids, moreover, are tolerably thick, and are furnished at their anterior lip with three or four rows of hard, stiff, and curved hairs, which are more numerous and longer on the upper than on the lower eyelid, and at the middle than at either end of each: these are the eyelashes. Their direction is worthy of notice: in the upper eyelid they are at first directed downwards, and are then curved upwards, so as to describe an arc having its concavity turned upwards : the eyelashes of the lower lid have just the opposite arrangement. From this it follows, that the convexities of the eyelashes of the two lids are turned towards each other; and thus, when the eye is shut, they touch each other without being able to interlace. Serious inconvenience is produced when the eyelashes deviate from their proper course, and are turned inwards ; when the eyelashes are wanting, the free margins of the lids are at- tacked with chronic inflammation. Along the posterior lip of the free margin of each eyelid, or rather along the angular ridge formed by the union of that margin with the posterior surface of the lid, are placed a very regular series of foramina (figs. 235, 236.), from which the sebaceous matter secreted by the Meibomian glands may be expressed in masses having the form of small worms. At the junction of the external five sixths with the internal sixth of the free margins of the two eyelids are found two very remarkable tubercles, the la- chrymal papilla or tubercles (a, fig. 239.; also seen in figs, 235, 236.), each of which is perforated by an opening, visible to the naked eye ; these openings are the puncta lachrymalia, the orifices of the corresponding lachrymal canals. That part of the free margin of each eyelid which is on the inner side of the corresponding lachrymal papilla is straight, rounded, and destitute of hairs or follicular orifices ; in the space inclosed between this part of the eyelids, and called laciLs lachrymalis, is situated the caruncula lachrymalis (*,fig. 239.). The upper eyelid, moreover, is twice as deep as the lower; so that, when depressed, it descends below the transverse diameter, or equator of the eye, to use an expression invented by Haller. The terms angles of the eye, or commissures of the eyelids, are applied to the angles formed by the junction of the extremities of the free margins of the eyelids. The external angle, external or temporal commissure {b, fig. 239.), is also named the little angle {canthus minor).* The internal angle, internal or nasal commissure (e), improperly called the great angle of the eye (canthus major), corresponds to the posterior border of the ascending process of the superior maxillary bone. Structure of the eyelids. The constituent parts of the eyelids are, the tarsal * The external commissure does not correspond to the outer extremity of the transverse diameter of the base of the orbit, but is situated about three lines nearer to the nose: nence the necessity of dividing this commissure in extirpation of the eye.