NEUROLOGY. 1144 between the cranial and the spinal nerves. It has been conceived that the number of cranial nerves ought to be regulated by the number of cranial ver- tebra; admitted by different anatomists ; and moreover, that in order to draw a fair comparison between these two sets of nerves, the special nerves of the face, namely, the olfactory, the optic, and the auditory nerves should be en- tirely disregarded. Now we have already shown (see Osteology), that there are three cranial vertebra;, between which there are two intervertebral foramina; that the anterior intervertebral foramen is represented by the sphenoidal fissure, to which we must annex the foramen rotundum and the foramen ovale; and that the posterior intervertebral foramen is represented by the foramen lacerum posterius together with the anterior condyloid foramen. This being premised, we shall admit two pairs of cranial nerves, an anterior and a posterior. The posterior cranial pair consists on each side of the eighth and ninth nerves, namely of the pneumogastric, glosso-pharyngeal, spinal accessory, and hypo-glossal nerves. The pneumogastric and the glosso-pharyngeal, each of which has a ganglion analogous to the intervertebral ganglia, represent the posterior roots of a spinal nerve, whilst the spinal accessory and the hypo- glossal, which have no ganglion, represent the anterior root. The two last- named nerves are exclusively motor, whilst the pneumogastric and the glosso- pharyngeal appear to me to be mixed nerves, that is both sensory and motor. The anterior cranial pair is composed on each side of the fifth nerve, the ganglion of which is quite analogous to the intervertebral ganglia, and the large portion of the root of which accurately represents the posterior root of a spinal nerve; and of the third or common motor nerve of the eye, of the fourth or pathetic nerve, of the sixth or external motor nerve of the eye, of the por- tio dura of the seventh, and lastly, of the non-ganglionic portion of the fifth. All these last-named nerves are the nerves of motion; whilst the ganglionic portion of the fifth is the nerve of sensation. Moreover, as the spinal nerves communicate with the ganglia of the great sympathetic, it is of importance, for the completion of our comparison, to de- termine the communications of the two cranial pairs of nerves with the same system of ganglia. Now, I regard the superior cervical ganglion of the great sym- pathetic as common to the two supposed cranial pairs and to the three superior cervical pairs; in fact, the superior cervical ganglion communicates with all the branches of the posterior cranial pair, excepting the spinal accessory, viz. with the pneumogastric, the glosso-pharyngeal, and the hypo-glossal; and it also communicates with the anterior cranial pair, and more particularly with the fifth and sixth nerves. As to the ophthalmic, spheno-palatine, otic, and submaxillary ganglia, which Arnold regards as annexed to the organs of the senses, viz. the ophthalmic to the eye, the spheno-palatine to the nose, the otic to the ear, and the sub- maxillary to the organ of taste, and which Bichat described as the cephalic portion of the great sympathetic, I am of opinion that they are mere local ganglia which do not form part of the general sympathetic system: besides, the ophthalmic and the otic ganglion only can be shown to be connected with the organs of any sense; it is impossible to show that the spheno-palatine gan- glion the very existence of which as a ganglion is often doubtful, has any connexions with the organ of smell, nor that the submaxiUary gangUon, which is much more closely connected with the sublingual gland, has any relations with the organ of taste.