ANGEIOLOGY. 1694 situation; it passes vertically upwards behind the neck of the condyle, and gains the foramen spinosum in the sphenoid bone, through which it enters into the interior of the cranium; it is then reflected upon the anterior margin of this foramen, becomes horizontal, and divides into two branches, an anterior and a posterior. The anterior branch is the larger; it runs upon the outer extremity of the lesser wing of the sphenoid, and reaches the anterior angle of the parietal bone, where it is received into an imperfect, and sometimes even into a complete bony canal, and then divides and subdivides in the ra- mified gi-ooves upon the internal surface of the parietal bone. Its branches may be traced even into the walls of the longitudinal sinus. The posterior branch is smaller, and passes backwards and upwards upon the squamous portion of the temporal bone, and upon the internal surface of the parietal bone, enters into the ramified grooves upon that surface, and ter- minates in the dura mater and the bones of the cranium. The ultimate twigs of the middle meningeal artery anastomose with those of the opposite side, and with the branches of the anterior and posterior meningeal arteries. Relations. In the first part of its course it is very deeply situated, and is in relation in front with the condyloid attachments of the external pterygoid muscle; in the cranium it is situated on the outer surface of the dura mater, between that membrane and the bones, into the substance of which it sends a number of extremely fi^ne ramusculi. The relation of the two divisions of this artery with the two inferior angles of the parietal bone, deserves notice ii> a surgical point of view. In consequence of its sending branches into the bones, separation of the dura mater is always followed by effusion of blood. The middle meningeal artery also gives off some co/ZaieraZ branches. On the outside of the cranium it furnishes some unnamed twigs. Within the cranium it gives a small branch named the vidian, which enters the aqueduct of Fal- lopius through the hiatus Fallopii, and supplies the facial nerve, ramifying in its neurilemma, and anastomosing with the stylo-mastoid branch of the oc- cipital artery ; some small branches, which supply the fifth or trigeminal nerve, and evidently anastomose with the meningeal branches of the internal carotid; a small twig which enters the canal for the internal muscle of the malleus, and is distributed upon that muscle; opposite the sphenoidal fissure, several orbital branches, which enter the orbit at the narrowest part of that fissure, or even by proper canals in its neighbourhood; and lastly, some rather large temporal branches, which pass into the great alse of the sphe- noid at their orbital surface, and anastomose in the temporal fossa with the deep temporal arteries : not unfrequently the lachrymal artery, or a small sup- plementary lachrymal artery is furnished by the middle meningeal. The inferior dental artery (d) is the artery of the lower jaw; it generally arises on a level with the middle meningeal, but sometimes before and some- times after that vessel; it passes downwards, along the inner surface of the ramus of the jaw, between the bone and the internal pterygoid, sending off branches to that muscle, but being separated from it by the fibrous band called the spheno-maxillary ligament; it thus reaches the superior orifice of the dental canal, before entering which it gives off a small branch that passes downwards and forwards in a groove on the inner surface of the jaw, and ter- minates in the mylo-hyoid muscle. The inferior dental artery traverses the entire length of the dental canal, accompanied by the nerve of same name. Opposite the bicuspid teeth it divides into two branches: a mental branch, the larger, which escapes through the mental foramen, and anastomoses with the sub-mental artery and the in- ferior coronary artery of the lip; and an incisor branch, which continues in the original course of the artery, passes beneath the canine and incisor teeth, and is lost in the diploe opposite the symphysis. _ During its course the dental artery, as well as its incisor branch, gives off a great number of twigs, which are lost in the diploe of the bone ; and a series of dental branches, which correspond in number with the roots of the teeth