1136 NEUROLOGY. 77(6 Beciirrent or Inferior Laryngeal Nerve.* This nerve (r, fig. 302.), so called on account of its reflected course, arises in front of tie arch of the aorta on the left side, and of the subclavian artery on the right side : it is sometimes so large that it may be regarded as resulting from the bifurcation of the pneumogastric: it is reflected below and then behind the arch of the aorta on the left side, and the subclavian ar- tery on the right, so as to form a loop or arch which has its concavity turned upwards, and which embraces the corresponding vessel. Having thus changed its course from a descending to an ascending one, the recurrent nerve enters the groove (jl,fig. 301.) between the trachea and the cesophagus, and continues to ascend as high as the lower border of the inferior constrictor muscle of the pharynx; it then passes beneath that muscle, gives some filaments to it, rims behind the lesser cornu of the thyroid cartilage, and the crico-thyroid articu- lation, along the outer border of the posterior crico-arytenoid muscle, and terminates by ramifying in the muscles of the larynx. During its course, the recurrent nerve gives off the following collateral branches: at the point of its reflection, it gives several cardiac filaments, which unite with the cardiac branches of the pneumogastric and great sympathetic. It is important to remark the intimate connexion which exists between the recur- rent and the cardiac nerves : some very considerable anastomoses are almost always found between the superior and inferior cardiac nerves and the recur- rent nerve : sometimes, indeed, the recurrent nerve forms the point at which the superior and middle cardiac nerves meet, and from which the inferior cardiac nerve is given off; the anastomoses between the recurrent and car- diac nerves sometimes form a true plexus. The recurrent also gives oesophageal branches, which are much more nu- merous on the left than on the right side, so that the left recurrent nerve is much smaller in the larynx than the right nerve. It also gives tracheal branches, which chiefly supply the posterior or mem- branous portion of that canal. And, lastly, some pharyngeal filaments, all of which are destined for the in- ferior constrictor. Excepting an anastomotic branch f for the superior laryngeal nerve, all of the terminal branches of the recurrent nerve are intended for the muscles of the larynx, and are thus distributed. The branch for the posterior crico-arytenoid simply enters that muscle. The branch for the arytenoid vwas between the cricoid cartilage and the pos- terior crico-arytenoid muscle, and then ramifies in the arytenoid. It has al- ready been stated that the last-named muscle is also supplied by the superior laryngeal nerve. , • i. The brunch for the lateral crico-arytenoid and thyro-arytenoid muscles is tbe true termination of the nerve ; it passes on the outer side of these two muscular bundles, which, as formerly stated, constitute a single muscle in the human subject, and then enters them by very delicate filaments. I have distmctly seen a very delicate filament entering the crico-thyroid articulation. After the pneumogastric has given off the recurrent nerve, and often before doing so it furnishes, certain cardiac branches (thoracic cardial); these are subdivided into the pericardial, which run upon the outer surface of the peri- cardium and are lost in it and in the cellular tissue which replaces the thymus ; and into the cardiac branches, properly so called, which assist in the formation of the cardiac plexus. ■« Thnsp anatomists who regard the superior laryngeal nerve as a dependence of the spin.il acce^orv believe t^^^^^ inferior or recurrent laryngeal has a similar origin j ™«y • =nH l?,/stfll r^ore reason, in reference to this nerve, what I have already stated in regard to the srnerfur aryngealTha^^ s impossible to demonstrate this continuity by dissection. + anastomotic branch is superficial, and joins the descending filament from the superior ^'rveTp°neath membrane on the back of the iHrynx, and sometimes sc.,d^ laryngeal pe/ve, oeneatn rue u..^^ anastomosis between the su- |;!='^d'arS^^^^^^^^^ the thyro-arytenoid muscle.')