NEUROLOGY. firmness and tense condition of the globe of the eye: it is also the cause of me intense pam produced by inflammation of the interior of the eve and bv certain cases of hydrophthalmia. ^ The older anatomists considered the sclerotic to be composed of two layers the mner of -which was, according to Zinn, a prolongation of the pia mater; and' according to Meckel, of the arachnoid. But, independently of the fact that the division of the sclerotic into two layers is purely artificial, it may be stated that neither the pia mater nor the arachnoid is prolonged upon the optic nerve. Lastly, the sclerotic has been regarded as a continuation of the dura mater, through the medium of the neurilemma of the optic nerve ; and this view is sup- ported by dissection, which shows clearly that the sheath furnished by the dura mater to the optic nerve is prolonged upon the sclerotic. It has, more- over, been stated, but incorrectly, that the anterior part of the sclerotic has an additional layer, formed by the union of the tendons of the recti muscles. The sclerotic is composed of fibrous bundles which interlace in all direc- tions. Its use is especially to protect the globe of the eye, of which it forms the covering, and determines the shape. The Cornea, The transparent cornea (a a, fig. 241.) completes the external shell of the eye in front: in reference to the sclerotic coat, it represents a segment of a smaller sphere superadded to a larger sphere; its circumference is circular, or rather slightly elliptical, for its transverse diameter is half a line longer than its vertical diameter. Its anterior surface is convex, and projects forwards beyond the sclerotic ; it is covered by the conjunctiva, which adheres to it so closely, that the ex- istence of that membrane upon it has been denied by some anatomists. * Too great a convexity of the cornea, by increasing the refracting power of the eye, occasions myopia, or short-sightedness. Its posterior surface is concave, and forms the anterior wall of the anterior chamber of the eye. A thin membrane (m) covers this surface, and is called the membrane of the aqueous humour. The circumference of the cornea, which is fitted into the opening in the front of the sclerotic, is cut obliquely, so that its external surface is smaller than its internal surface ; the oblique edge of the sclerotic, to which it corresponds, is sloped in the opposite direction. The cornea and sclerotic adhere so closely that they were for a long time regarded as forming but one coat -, but, independently of their dilference in appearance and texture, they may be separated by boiling or by long-continued maceration. Structure. The cornea is thicker than the sclerotic : it may be separated into a great number of lamellae, united by very thin layers of cellular tissue ; but this separation is purely artificial, so that the number of lamelliE is inde- finite. The thinnest layer of fluid interposed between the lamellEe is sufficient to impair the transparency of the cornea ; maceration, accordingly, gives it a milky appearance. The opacity of the cornea, which occurs in some cases of ophthalmia, depends upon the infiltration between the lameUse of a certain quantity of fluid, after the absorption of which the cornea recovers its original transparency. No vessels can be shown in the cornea, even by the aid of the finest in- jections of the arteries and veins of the eye: its superficial layer, which is continuous with the conjunctiva, contains a network of lymphatics commu- nicating with those of the conjunctiva, and capable of being demonstrated by * A careful dissection, especially after prolonged maceration, shows the continuity of the most su|)erficial layer of the cornea with the conjunctiva. A malformation sometimes occurs, in whicli one jiart of tlic cornea is covered by a prolongation of the conjunctiva.