PREPARATION OF LYMPHATIC VESSELS AND GLANDS. 819 portion of the lymphatic gland; and diseases of the glands establish the same fact by attacking one part only of a gland, the rest continuing unaffected. Several lymphatic vessels enter each gland, and several emerge from it. Each afferent vessel (a a a, fig. 22.5.), as it reaches the circumference of the gland, divides into a considerable number of branches, which diverge and run for a short distance upon the sur- face of the gland, and then dip into its substance.* The efferent lymphatics (6 6) commence in precisely the same manner as the afferent vessels terminate. The study of these vessels in the larger animals ap- pears calculated to clear up all doubts as to the structure of the lymphatic glands. Abernethy having injected the mesenteric arteries and veins of a whale, saw the fluid run into pouches about the size of an orange; he then injected mercury into the lacteals, and found that it flowed into the same cavities; he therefore concluded that the arteries, v€ins, and lacteals all opened into the same cavities. This fact appears to confirm the observations quoted by MM. Fohmann and Lauth, relative to the communications of the lymphatics with the veins within the substance of the glands; but the objections already urged against those observations will apply to this one also. The lymphatic glands are inclosed in a fibrous membrane; I have in vain attempted to find the fleshy coat described by Malpighi, and which he ima- gined sent prolongations into the substance of these glands. The lymphatic glands are supplied with very large arteries for their size, and they give off stiU larger veins : a proper tissue (rf) appears to enter into their composition. The lymphatic glands may be said to consist essentially of an inextricable interlacement of lymphatic vessels, their structure having some analogy to that of the corpus cavernosum penis, and to that of the spleen. This opinion is confirmed by reference to the anatomy of birds, in which lymphatic glands exist only in the neck, their place being supplied by plexuses in all other parts. Preparation of the Lymphatic Vessels and Glands. I have already said, that in order to inject the network of lymphatics, the pipe should be very superficially introduced into the free cutaneous, serous, or mucous surfaces. When the injection is successful the mercury passes from this network into the. vessels which emerge from it, reaches as far as the lymphatic glands, and even penetrates through several series of them. _ The great number and peculiar arrangement of the valves prevents the injection of the lymphatics from the centre towards the extremities : I have attempted to do this several times, without success, by introducing the tube into the thoracic duct. From the small caliber of the Ij-mphatics it is necessary to use a capillary tube for these injections. Mercury, notwithstanding the inconvenience of ite fluidity, and mcapabihty of being made solid, is the most convenient material for the purpose ; the weight of a column of mercury, about fifteen or eighteen inches m height affords sufficient power for the injection. Anel's syringe 18 well adapted for injecting the thoracic duct, which may be filled with a solution of isinglass, or still better with milk, which becomes coagulated by Ht,!i!1'°, k T Watus for injecting the lymphatics is a glass cy- hnder, to the lower end of which is adapted! flexible tube, which is termi- glnnd noticed by IWilpighi, Crnickshank, &c5 nppearance to a section of the N