^'52 NEUROLOGY. sions. In a case in which the external laryngeal nerve arose separatelv trom the pneumogastric and not from the superior laryngeal, it had as many niaments ot origm from the superior cervical ganglion as from the pneumo- gastric itself. <= o f The cardiac branches form the superior cardiac nerve, to -which I shall recur alter having described the middle and inferior cervical ganglia. The Middle Cervical Ganglion. The middle cervical ganglion (a. fig. 302.) is wantmg in a great number of subjects, and then the branches usually given off from and received by it are given off and received by the cords which connect the superior and inferior cervical ganglia, or by the inferior cervical ganglion itself. The middle cervical ganglion is sometimes double ; at other times it is in quite a rudimen- tary state. It is situated on a level with the fifth or sixth cervical vertebra, in front of the inferior thyroid artery, opposite to the first curve of that vessel, and some- times behind it; its relation to this artery, which is very nearly constant, in- duced Haller to name it the thjroid ganglion: however, I have frequently seen it eight lines above that artery. Its form and size are extremely variable, not only in different subjects, but even upon opposite sides of the same subject. Sometimes it is a simple gangliform enlargement. Scarpa has figured a middle cervical ganglion almost as large as the superior, and like it olive-shaped. I have never seen it as large as this.* The middle cervical ganglion, when it exists, receives: Above, the cord which communicates with the superior cervical ganglion; below, the cord of communication, often multiple, with the inferior cervical ganglion ; on the outside, three branches derived from the third, fourth, and fifth cervical nerves : not unfrequently the communicating branch from the fourth cervical nerve belong^s to the phrenic ; on the inside, the middle cardiac nerve, or great cardiac of Scarpa, which I shall presently describe. The size of the middle cervical ganglion has always appeared to me to be proportioned to that of its filaments of communication with the cervical nerves. The Inferior Cervical Ganglion. Neubauer has given an excellent description of the inferior cervical gan- glion under the name of the fitrst thoracic ganglion, rather an appropriate title for it, because it is ft-equently continuous with the first thoracic ganglion (as at i,fig. 302.); and secondly, because it is situated in front of the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra and of the head of the first rib. This ganglion is constant; it is deeply seated behind the origin of the vertebral ar- tery, by which it is completely concealed.f It is of a semilunar shape, its concave border being turned upwards and its convex one downwards ; at its internal extremity it receives the trunk of the sympathetic; at its external extremity it receives a large nerve which ac- companies the vertebral artery, and which may be called the vertebral nerve; at the same extremity it also receives some communicating branches from the fifth, sixth, and seventh cervical nerves, and often from the first dorsal. Se- veral branches proceed from its convex border which is turned downwards; some pass in front of and others behind the subclavian artery, which they embrace like loops. Most of these inferior branches are the communicating branches between the inferior cervical and the superior thoracic ganglion, and * I believe that it is incorrect to regard as a middle cervical ganglion those ganglionic no- dules, without either afferent or efferent filaments, wliich are rather frequently found at various points on the trunk of the sympathetic. . , , . „ t It is not rare to see the inferior cervical ganglion describe around the vertebral artery a half-ring which is completed in front by a grey cord extended from one end of the giinglion to the other.