853 THE STRUCTURE OF THE NOSE. V 4 The Nose. The nose resembles in form a three-sided pyramid, directed vertically, and projecting from the middle of the face, so that the olfactory organ is the most anterior of all the organs of the special senses. Its numerous varieties in shape and size fall under the consideration of painters rather than anatomists ; for these varieties have greater effect upon the physio"'nomy than upon the exercise of its functions. On each side of the nose, at its lower part, is observed a semicircular fur- row, having its concavity directed downwards, and forming the upper border of the ala3 nasi; from this furrow, on either side, the naso-labial furrow of the semeiologists commences. The lateral surfaces of the nose form, by their union, the dorsum, which is either straight, convex, or concave, according to the subject; differences which, in a great measure, determine the national or individual forms of this part of the face. The term lobe of the nose is applied to the rounded eminence in which the dorsum nasi terminates below. The summit, or root of the nose, is separated from the nasal protuberance by a transverse furrow. The base of the nose presents two elliptical or semilunar orifices, called the nostrils (nares): the long diameters of these two orifices are directed horizontally backwards and outwards, and they are separated from each other by an antero-posterior septum; they are provided with stiff hairs, or vibrissa, which serve to arrest any small particles floating in the air.* The direction of the nostrils is a proof that the erect position is natural to man ; for if he were to assume the attitude of a quadruped, only the dorsum of the nose would be directed towards odoriferous bodies. The situation of the nostrils above the orifice of the mouth, explains how no alimentary substance can be introduced into that cavity without having been previously examined by the sense of smell. The nose consists of a skeleton or basis, and of certain muscles; it is cor vered by the skin externally, and by a mucous membrane internally j and it receives both vessels and nerves. The Structure of the Nose. * The basis ov framework of the nose is composed of bone,'cartilttge, a.xid JU>rous tissue. The osseous portion occupies the upper part of the organ, and consists of the proper nasal bones, and of the ascending processes of the superior maxillary bones. The cartilaginous part consists of the two lateral cartilages of the nose, to which we may add the cartilage of the septum, although it rather forms part of the nasal fossae than of the nose properly so called ; and, secondly, of the two alar cartilages, or cartilages of the nostrils, making five in all. To this we must add certain cartilaginous nodules, situated between the lower part of the cartilages of the als and that of the septum. Santorini described eleven cartilages in the nose, doubtless because he reckoned certain cartilaginous nodules, which are sometimes accidently developed in the substance of the fibrous tissue.f The fibrous portion of the nose consists of a fibrous layer, which occupies the interval between the lateral cartilages of the nose and the cartilages of the alae. fif*n,T''hM?rTJ^""' ''''j'''^*°l"^"y evident in serious diseases ; when, in consequence to these ha f Th"! .nr'M''''y particles /eating in the air become attached like a fine powde? Utloner of'he serious™nat"fe''of a <f?seasf' °' ""^"^ t See note, p. 854.