ANGEIOLOGY. renal, and one external iliac vein, each of which corresponds to the artery of the same name ; but there is but one umbilical vein to two umbilical arteries and there are several suprarenal arteries, but only one suprarenal vein. ' It is impossible to estimate the size of the veins with accuracy, in con- sequence of the variations to which they are liable, from their extreme dilatabihty. Hence the very different results obtained by authors in this respect. According to Haller, the capacity of the veins is to that of the ar- teries as two to one; according to Borelli, as four to one; according to Sauvages, as nine to four. The entire venous system represents a truncated cone, the apex of which corresponds to the heart, and the base to the origins of the veins. From this disproportion between the total area of the smaller veins, and the area of the trunks in which they terminate, it follows that in the course of the circulation the blood passes from a wider to a narrower space; an arrangement which tends to accelerate, the progress of the fluid. The study of the veins includes the consideration of their origin, course, anastomoses, relations, termination, and structure. Origin of the Veins. The veins are continuous with the arteries; a fact that is proved by the facility with which even veiy coarse injections will pass from the arteries to the reins, and is also most satisfactorily shown by examining the circulation in the mesentery of the frog. In some parts, instead of the communication between the arteries and veins being direct, it is established by means of an intermediate vascular network or spongy tissue, which is entirely venous : of this we have an example in the corpus cavernosum penis. Lastly, the facility with which injections forced into the veins from the trunks towards the ex- tremities escape upon the surface of the mucous membranes, would seem to establish the fact of these vessels arising by open mouths at the surface of those membranes. Haller admitted the existence of absorbent veins arising from all the free surfaces.* Course. Immediately after their origin, the veins form networks, from which small branches are given off to anastomose together and form larger and larger net- works : from these, again, proceed larger branches, which become successively united, just as the arteries are successively divided; that is to say, the smaller branches unite to form larger ones, and these still larger bi'anches, which are at length imited into the venous trunks. In the limbs, the veins are divided into the superficial and the deep. The deep veins, which accompany the ar- teries, have similar relations with the bones, muscles, nerves, fasciae, and skin, as those vessels. The deep veins are always in contact with the arteries, and are contained in the same fibrous sheaths. All attempts to ascertain any law by which the relations of the veins with the arteries are regulated, have been unsuccessful. Indeed, the relative position of the two kinds of vessels, although constant, does not seem to follow any general rule. The close relations between the arteries and veins, interesting as they are to the surgeon, who is required to separate the veins carefuDy from an artery, before tying the latter, are no less so to the physiologist. The shock communicated to the blood in the venas comites, by the pulsations of their corresponding ar- tery, must assist the circulation of that fluid. In some cases of hypertrophy of the heart, I have seen the blood issue in jets from a vein, as if it were from an artery. When, as it in some places happens, the deep veins do not accompany the arteries, there is always some special reason which observation may determine * [The escape of injections upon mucous membranes is due to rupture or transudation; the existence of veins having open mouths upon these or other free surfaces is now denied by the best authorities.]