THE VISCERAL LAYER OF THE ARACHNOID. 917 the other and from the cerebeUum to the spinal cord, the arachnoid leaves a considerable space or reservoir for serosity, which may be caUed the posterior sub-arachnoid space. ^ • i i. Laterally the arachnoid covers the inferior surface of the anterior lobes of the cerebi-u'm and the olfactory nerves, which are thus held in contact with the anterior lobes ; it then passes from the anterior to the posterior lobe, with- out enterinff the fissure of Sylvius, and from the posterior lobe to the tuber annulare and the cerebellum. It follows, therefore, that there are certain small sub-arachnoid spaces, which communicate with the great anterior sub-arachnoid space of the brain ; so that in the dead body there exists between the arach- noid and the pia mater, at the base of the brain, a large space, the centre of which corresponds to the median excavation of the base of the cerebrum, and which is prolonged forwards between the anterior lobes of the brain, laterally along each of the fissures of Sylvius, and backwards around the peduncles of the cerebellum. By this last-named prolongation a communication is es- tablished between the anterior and posterior sub-arachnoid spaces. All these spaces contain serum in the natural state, and coagulable lymph in some cases of inflammation of the sub-arachnoid cellular tissue. The arachnoid is arranged in an uniform manner in reference to all the nerves situated at the base of the brain; it passes over their lower surface, and there- fore holds them firmly against the under surface of the brain; but where these nerves are separated from the brain, it furnishes a tubular prolongation around each, and again leaves them as they are about to enter the foramina in the base of the skull, and is reflected upon the dura mater. Upon the upper surface of the brain, the arachnoid dips into the median fissure, and is reflected from one hemisphere to the other immediately below the free margin of the falx cerebri; and as this margin is nearer to the corpus callosura behind than in front, it follows that the anterior portions of the two hemispheres are in contact with each other for a certain distance, or rather they are merely separated by the pia mater. The cerebral arachnoid adheres intimately to the arachnoid of the dura mater, along the sides of the superior longitudinal sinus, by means of the tu- bular prolongations which it forms around the cerebral veins that enter that sinus. This adhesion is also strengthened by the granular bodies, called the glands of Pacchioni, which, as we have already stated, lie in the substance of the dura mater. Moreover, on the convex surface, as well as upon the base of the brain, the arachnoid, in covering this organ, passes like a bridge from one convolution to another, never dipping into the intermediate sulci. The cellular tissue, wfuch unites the arachnoid to the pia mater, is of a serous nature and extremely delicate, so that the two membranes can be easily se- parated, excepting in cases of inflammation. When air is blown beneath the arachnoid, the extreme tenuity of this cellular tissue becomes evident; it is very frequently infiltrated with a serous fluid. The sub-arachnoid cellular tissue never contains any fat. The fat which Ruysch, Haller, and other anatomists say they have observed, must have been that yellowish gelatiniform lymph, so commonly met with in cases of inflam- mation.* In some parts the arachnoid is lined by fibrous tissue, which gives it great strength. This fibrous tissue, which may be regarded as a prolongation of the neurilemma of the spinal cord, is especially distinct in the great furrows of the brain. Thus we find it around the great anterior sub-arachnoid space, where It constitutes, as it were, a very strong fibrous band, which surrounds the ar- terial circle of Wilhs, situated at the base of the brain; it also retains the dif- ferent parts of the brain in their relative positions, even when that organ is re- moved from the cranium, and is laid with its base uppermost. * I oncR found in an old woman an adipose cyst, about the size of a small eraoe arisine hi- a very thin pedicle from the upper surface of the pituitjirj- body. ^ ^ ' ^