THE SYMPATHETIC SYSTEM OF NERVES. THE SYMPATHETIC SYSTEM OF NERVES. General Remarks.—The Cervical portion of the Sympathetic. — Tlie superior cervical ganglion—its superior branch, carotid plexus, oMd cavernous plexus ~ its anterior, external, inferior, and internal branches. —ITlie middle cervical gan- alion — The inferior cervical ganglion. — The vertebral plexus. — 2 he Cardiac nerves; right, superior, middle and inferior; left.—The Cardiac ganglion and plexuses — Tlie Thoracic portion of the Sympathetic—The external and in- ternal branches. — The splanchnic nerves, great and small. — The visceral ganglia and plexuses in the abdomen, viz. the solar plexus and semilunar ganglia.— The diaphragmatic and supra-renal, the coeliac, the superior mesenteric, the inferior mesenteric, and the renal, spermatic, and ovarian plexuses. — The Lumbar portion of the Sympathetic.— The communicating, external, and internal branches.— The lumbar splanchnic nerves and visceral plexuses in thepelvis.—The Sacral portion of the Sympathetic. — General view of the Sympathetic System. We have seen that the nerves arising from the cerebro-spinal axis are dis- tributed to the organs of the senses, to the skin, to the muscles, in short to all the organs of animal life. The pneumogastric nerve alone is distributed to the organs of respiration, and the upper part of the alimentary canal, viz. the pharynx, the oesophagus, and the stomach. We shall now see that all the internal organs, which are beyond the influence of volition and consciousness, are provided with a special nervous apparatus which is called the gi-eat sym- pathetic, the sympathetic system, the ganglionic system, or the nervous system of organic or nutritive life. The sympathetic system consists of two long, knotted cords (/ to v, fig. 268., in which figure these cords are represented as if drawn outwards away from their natural position) extended one on each side of the vertebral column, from the first cervical to the last sacral vertebra; these cords are enlarged opposite each vertebra to form a series of ganglia, which communicate with aU the spinal and cranial nerves on the one hand, and give off all the visceral branches on the other. The sympathetic system consists essentially of two distinct parts : of a central portion, formed by the two cords ; and of a visceral, median, or pravertebral portion, consisting of certain plexuses and ganglia which com- municate with the central cords, surround the arteries as if in sheaths, pene- trate the viscera with them, and establish a communication between the sym- pathetic cords of the right and left sides. We cannot pay too much attention to the connexion between the ganglionic nerves and the arteries, which always serve as a support for these nerves, and for which, according to some anatomists, the nerves are exclusively destined. Each half of the sympathetic system may be described in two ways, either as a continuous cord, having ganglia at intervals upon it, or as a series of ganglia or centres, which may first be examined independently of each other, and around which all the filaments that enter or emerge from them may then be arranged. The first method, which is the more natural one, was adopted by the older anatomists, who described the sympathetic in the same way as other nerves ; according to the second method, which is the one adopted by Bichat, all the ganglia, whatever situation they may occupy, are included in the sympathetic system ; the ophthalmic, the spheno-palatine, and other cranial ganglia would, according to this view, be comprised in the sympathetic system. I believe that the better mode of description is one which associates the idea of a centre with that of a cord. In fact, as the sympathetic system consists of a double line, it is natural to describe it as a nervous cord, having two extre- mities, one cephalic, the other pelvic ; and as each ganglion forms the point of termination or of origin to a great number of nervous filaments, these bodies may very properly be regarded as central points. The visceral portion of the