899 THE LINING MEMBRANE OF THE TYMPANUM. S 3 Soemmerring.-who says that he found it exceedingly developed m one subject. All that I have clearly seen is a cylindrical cord, extending from the upper part of the frame of the membrana tympani to the short process of the malleus or rather below it, according to the observations of Soemmerring (ad manubrium mallei, infra brevem ejus processum). This small muscle would relax the membrana tympani; hence it has been named by Soemmerrmg, the laxater membrana tympani. , , ^ x i,- i, • ^t. The muscle of the stapes, or stapedius muscle (o,fig. 255.), which is the smallest in the body, has, since the time of Varolius, by whom it was dis- covered, been regarded as a ligament by some anatomists; nevertheless, it is more generally admitted to be muscular than that last described. It arises from some part of the interior of the pyramid, and escaping from that process passes forwards, and terminates at the back of the neck, or constricted part of the head of the stapes, behind its articulation with the incus. Soemmerring has not only represented its fleshy belly and its tendon, but also (see fig. 20. tab. 11.) a filament of the facial nerve terminating in it. It is difficult to con- ceive that such a serious mistake should have been committed by this great anatomist. I have examined this cord under a lens, and have never been able'to discover any muscular fibres in it. We do not conceive how a muscle should exist in so delicate a cord. Supposing, however, that it does exist, it must move the stapes in such a way that the posterior extremity of the base of that bone would be pushed into the fenestra ovalis, whilst the anterior ex- tremity would be carried outwards. Movements of the ossicula. The chain of small bones in the ear is so ar- ranged, that any movement of one of its extremities is communicated to the- entire chain. Their motion is precisely similar to that of a bell-crank. M. Huguier is inclined to believe that the processus gracilis of Raw serves as a fulcrum, around which the malleus performs a rotatory movement, the effects of which are transmitted to the stapes through the incus. The contraction of the internal muscle of the malleus, or tensor membranse tympani, must draw the handle of the malleus inwards and its head outwards ; the incus, from its firm connection with the head of the malleus, follows that bone, and as it swings upon its short horizontal process, its vertical process is carried inwards, and therefore presses the stapes into the fenestra ovalis. The Lining Membrane of the Tpnpanum. The tympanum is lined by a very thin membrane, which not only covers the walls of this cavity, but also forms a very evident investment for the ossicula, and is moreover prolonged into the mastoid cells, lining them throughout, and forming small duplicatures around the vessels by which some of the cells are traversed. This membrane is continuous with the mucous membrane of the Eustachian tube, and therefore indirectly with that of the pharynx. * It serves at once as an internal lining for the tympanum, and a periosteum for the osseous walls of that cavity, and should therefore be regarded as a fibro-mucous membrane. It secretes a mucus, which in the natural state simply moistens its surface, but in some cases of disease occupies the whole cavity. The catarrhal character of the products of suppuration in the tym- panum, the continuity of this lining membrane with the mucous membrane of the pharynx, and its extreme vascularity, leave no doubt of its being a. mucous membrane. See note, p. 896.