THE DIMENSIONS OF THE SPINAL CORD. 927 through the intervertebral substance between the first and second lumbar ver- tebrte I ascertained that there are varieties in different subjects in regard to the point of termination of the spinal cord, and that it was influenced by the position of the body, and by the state of flexion or extension of the head and spine but that in general, the widest part or base of the cone in which the cord ends, corresponds to the first lumbar vertebra, and the apex of the cone to the second. , , , , . During the early periods of foetal life, the cord descends as low as the sacrum, but in fffituses at the full time, I have never found so marked a difference as has been described by some modern anatomists.* Differences in the size of the spinal cord at different points of its extent. The spinal cord is not of uniform dimensions throughout its whole extent: it is much enlarged at its upper part, opposite the basilar groove, where it constitutes the superior or occipital rachidian bulb, or the medulla oblongata, (a), it becomes narrowed immediately after having emerged from the foramen magnum. This constriction, which is named the neck of tlie rachidian bulb, is regarded by many anatomists as the commencement of the spinal cord. Another oblong enlargement, extending over a much greater length than the preceding, and named the middle, cervical, or brachial rachidian bulb, or cer- vical enlargement (6), commences opposite the third cervical, and terminates opposite the third dorsal vertebra. The spinal cord again becomes considerably contracted from the first to the eleventh dorsal vertebra, and then presents athird enlargement of less extent than either of the other two, constituting the inferior lumbar or crural rachidian bulb, or lumbar enlargement (c), it then immediately tapers like a spindle, and terminates in an exceedingly slender semi-transparent cord, which has a fibrous, filiform aspect, is concealed amongst the nerves of the cauda equina (d), and is always accompanied by a vein. This cord may be distinguished from the surrounding nerves by its being situated in the median line, and by its thinness, its fibrous character, and its termination. It may be traced as far as the base of the sacrum, when it terminates in the dura mater. In some cases the narrow portion of the inferior rachidian bulb, is bifurcated, but the two branches of the bifmxation terminate in a single fibrous cord. Huber, Haller, and Soemmerring, describe the spinal cord as terminating below by two small globular enlargements, of which the superior is oval, and the in- ferior conical. They have evidently mistaken an exception for the rule. These three enlargements of the spinal pord constitute a totally different structure from that admitted by Gall, who, comparing with Haller the spinal cord of man and the vertebrata generally, to the double series of ganglia in annelida and insects, maintained that there are as many enlargements of the cord as there are pairs of nerves. A strict examination into facts is completely at variance with this opinion, for even in the foetus, the temporary conditions of which so frequently resemble the permanent state of the lower animals, we find no trace of this series of enlargements. An erroneous inference, together with the aspect of the cord when surrounded by its nerves, have misled this ce- lebrated physiologist, who should have sought for the representatives of the ganglia of insects, not in the spinal cord itself, but in the series of ganglia on the spinal nerves.f ,„r„^''°. J' capable of elongation and retraction ; it is elongated during flexion, and . ,„„jrH:2 1 condition during extension of the vertebral column ; the difference be- t»een the two states appears to me to be from an inch to fifteen lines. S J an mfant at the full time, which was affected with spina bifida in the sacral 3 , * ^^'"} '""^ ^^^^^ 'he spinal marrow descended as low as the sacrum, 1 "",'=■''"'13 eqmna. Malacarne had already observed a similar fact; this pecu- fi/L .T . •P?"rP'''';'',^'.°f'l''^«'0P™«n^ in the cord, but upon adhesions contracted by It at an early period of foetal life. (See Anat. Pathol, liv. xvii. .irt. Spina Bifida.) r,ii ';?'a';BC"i':nt« are not to be found even in the spinal cord of the calf, which , .In ""^"-'."g'he type of this structure. The committee of the institute likew c failed to discover them in the dog, the pig, the deer, the roe-buck, the ox, and the horse, in wh ch Gall asserted that he had found them. The beautiful researches of Tiedemann into thrdc- VOIj. it, ¥t