DIFFERENT KINDS OF NERVES. 1019 Some anatomists have thought that, after emerging from the ganglion the filaments from the two roots become so intimately mingled that the smallest nervous cord would contain filaments from both the anterior and the posterior root • as far as I have been able to ascertain, the filaments are mterlaced but never enter into a regular combination. Again, in order to render the dis- section more easy and conclusive, having macerated a portion ot a body m water containing nitric acid, and having thus destroyed the neurilemma or fibrous covering of the nerves, I endeavoured to trace some nervous tilaments, both cutaneous and muscular, to their origin; but I never could succeed in this, so numerous are the combinations into which the filaments enter. However, having directed my attention more particularly to certain filaments given off from the cervical nerves to be distributed to the scaleni muscles, I succeeded m tracing them into the corresponding spinal ganglia. Now, the filaments which proceed directly from the spinal ganglia are, according to the theory just al- luded to, exclusively connected with sensation, and consequently should not be distributed to the muscles. The question of the anterior and posterior roots is connected -with another more general question, viz. are there different kinds of nerves ? Different Kinds of Nerves. The natural distinction of the nerves into those of sensation and of motion dates as far back as Erasistratus, who described the sensory nerves as arising from the meninges, and the motor from the cerebrum and cerebellum. This opinion was often revived and always abandoned, and it was only when direct experiment appeared to confirm the anticipations of theory that it became generally adopted. Bichat, after the example of Winslow and Reil, divided the nervous system into two great sections, one of which belongs to animal and the other to organic life. The spinal cord and encephalon form the common centre of the nervous system of animal life; the organs of the senses and the muscles are under its influence. All the organs supplied by it are subject to volition and consciousness. The nervous si/stem of organic life is formed by the ganglia of the great sympathetic, which Bichat agrees with Winslow in regarding as so many little brains. The organs of digestion, respiration, circulation, and se- cretion are imder its influence. All of the organs which it supplies are withdrawn from the control of the will and of consciousness. The sub-division adopted by Reil and Bichat prevailed in the science, until Sir Charles Bell was led back to the opinion of the ancients by some highly interesting observations and experiments ; he associated with that opinion the ideas of Bichat, and also established an entirely new class of nerves, which he named nerves of expression or respiratory nerves. According to this view there are five kinds of nerves : nerves intended for special sensations, as the nerves of smell, of vision, and of hearing; nerves of common sensation; nerves of voluntary motion; nerves of the respiratory movements; and sympathetic nerves, which ap- pear to unite the body into a whole in relation to its nutrition, its growth, and its decay. By a still wider generalisation, Sir Charles Bell admits two systems of nerves ; viz. the primitive or symmetrical nerves, which exist in all animals, and by the aid of which they feel and move. And secondly, the superadded, irregular, or respiratory nerves, the number of which is proportioned to the perfection of the general organisation. It is the latter system of nerves that regulates the partly voluntary and partly involuntary act of respiration, and also the several movements connected with it, such as those of speaking, laughing, sighing, and sneezing. According to Bell, these nerves arise from a special tract in the cord, and sometimes proceed separately or distinct from the other nerves, and are sometimes blended with them, this occurring in such a manner that neither their union nor their separation in any way impedes their functions. j j r