THE SUPERIOR INTERCOSTAL ARTERIES. 717 organs and mammary glands, is accomplished in the usual manner of capillary communication. .... j • -u The external terminal branch, as far as distribution is concerned, is the con- tinuation of the internal mammary. It is directed downwards and outwards, behind the cartilages of the seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth, and eleventh ribs, which it crosses obliquely, and terminates opposite the last intercostal space. Durin"' its course, it gives o£P the anterior intercostals of the corresponding spacesf two for each space, sometimes only one, which immediately subdivides. These'intercostals diminish gradually in size as the spaces decrease in_ length, and are distributed precisely as the anterior intercostal branches of the internal mammary itself. The external terminal branch, and also the internal, whilst passing through the diaphragm near its costal attachments, give oS a great number of branches to that muscle, and hence the name musculo-phrenic, given by Haller to the external division, which, indeed, furnishes many more branches to the diaphragm than the internal. The deep Cervical Artery. Dissection. Seek at first for the artery behind the scalenus anticus, be- tween the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra and the first rib; trace it, both to its termination between the complexus and semi-spinalis colli, and towards its origin within the scaleni. The posterior, or deep cervical, comes off deeply from the upper and back part of the subclavian, on the same plane as the vertebral, to the outside of which it is situated. Very often it arises by a common trunk with the fii'st intercostal. It passes at first upwards and backwards, then bends outwards behind the scalenus anticus to dip between the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra and the first rib. I have never seen it pass between the transverse processes of the sixth and seventh cervical vertebrae, though for this purpose I have examined forty subjects.* After leaving the inter-transverse space, the deep cervical artery divides into two branches, —one descending, which I have been able to trace as far as the middle of the dorsal region, between the long muscles of the back; the other ascending, which passes up between the complexus and the semi-spinalis colli, in which it terminates, and anastomoses with the occipital and vertebral arteries. The Superior Intercostal Arteries. Dissection. This artery can only be dissected from the internal surface of the thorax. For this purpose it is necessary to saw through the thorax vertically. The artery must be exposed by removing the pleura from the two upper ribs and intercostal muscles. The superior intercostal artery, intended for the two or three superior inter- costal spaces, sometimes only for the first, varies in size according to the extent of its distribution. It comes off from the lower and back part of the subclavian, near the deep cervical, and sometimes by a common trunk with it. It descends in a tortuous manner in front of the neck of the first, and then of the second rib, on the outside of the first dorsal ganglion of the sympathetic nerve, and terminates in the second intercostal space, like an aortic intercostal artery; sometimes it anastomoses freely with the first of the aortic intercostals. It gives off in each space a dorso-spinal branch, and an intercostal branch pro- • This relation is so constant, that even in cases where there is a supernumerary cervical rib the deep cervical artery passes between this supernumerary rib and the first dorsal rib. Some students having cal ed me to examine a subject in which this artery was wanting, I sought in vain for It between the first riband the transverse processor the last cervical vertebri and was"founT""' ^ cervical rib, between whicli and the first dorsal rib the artery auT;fheTSarS ^"'^'^ "^"""^ °' ''^'"^ f-"-