CENTRAL EXTREMITY OF THE OLFACTORY NERVE. 1095 Tlie Central Extremity of the Olfactory Nerve. The olfactory nerves or the first pair of cranial nerves (nerfs ethmoidaux, Chauss -1 fiq 276.) are two bands, composed of white and grey substance, which arise from the hindermost convolution of the anterior lobe of the brain, run forwards in the anfractuosity already described as the anfractuositij of the olfactory nerves, and expand in the ethmoidal groove into a sort of ganglion or bulb, from which filaments are given off to be distributed to the pituitary membrane. . , , . ^i. i- In regard to their central extremity and their course withm the cavity of the cranium, the olfactory nerves are singular, and their peculiarities justify the uncertainty which has for a long time prevailed, and still prevails, con- cerning their true character. The old anatomists did not regard them as nerves, but as prolongations of the brain, named by them carunculce or processus maxillares, and believed to be intended to di-ain off the mucosity of that organ: it was Massa, according to Sprengel, and Zerbi, according to Haller, who first connected them with the other cranial nerves as the first pair. Comparative anatomy, which probably suggested to the older anatomists the opinion which they held concerning these nerves, has now caused some doubts as to the propriety of considering them as nerves, and has given rise to the opinion that they are the representatives of the olfactory lobes of the lower animals.* Without entering here into discussions which belong to philosophical anatomy, let us examine the most remarkable circumstances connected with the origin and cranial course of this nerve. Apparent origin. The olfactory nerves arise from the cerebrum, and this is a character which belongs exclusively to them; they are the only cerebral nerves, properly so called. They arise from the hindermost convolution of the anterior lobe, in front of the anterior locus perforatus {h,fig. 276.), which is situated behind that convolution. This origin consists of a mamilla or pyramidal enlargement, grey pyramid, which is regarded as the grey root of the nerve. This greyish enlargement, which can be very well seen by reflecting the nerve backwards, is prolonged as a linear tract of grey substance upon the upper surface of the nerve. Besides this grey enlargement or origin, which was so weU described by Scarpa, there are two or three white roots, or rather certain white stria:, very accurately represented by Vicq d'Azyr; these are the external or long root, which is concealed in the fissure of Sylvius, and appears to me to arise from the posterior lobe [middle lobe] of the cerebmm, or more exactly from the posterior lip of the fissure of Sylvius; and the internal or short root, which arises from the innermost convolution of the anterior lobe and joins the long root at an acute angle; between these roots we often see one, two, or even three striae which come from the back part of the anterior lobe. It would be both useless and tedious to describe all the varieties of this origin. Beal origin. Anatomists have not confined themselves to the investigation of the apparent origin of the olfactory nerves, but have also endeavoured to ascertain their deep or real origin. Willis described them as arising from the medulla oblongata, Ridley from the corpus callosum, Vieussens, Winslow, and Monro from the corpora striata, f If, after the example of Scarpa, a transverse perpendicular section of the brain be made opposite the junction of the grey and white roots of the olfactory * When speaking of the comparative anatomy of the brain, it was mentioned that in a great number of animals there existed, in front of the cerebral lobes or hemispheres, a pair of lobes (vlfactori/ lobes), which were continuous with the nerves distributed to the pituitary membrane and the development of which corresponded to the size of those nerves, and to the relative state of perfection of the sense of smell. t Chaussier, who adopted the latter opinion, called the corpora striata the olfactory lobci in contradistinction to the optic thalami, which he terms the optic lobes. But comparative ana tomy shows that there is no relation iu point of developemcnt between the corpora striata and the ollactory nerves.