NEUROLOGY. 966 pons Varolii, which Gall regarded as forming together the commissure of the cerebellum. The superior peduncles of the cerebellum (r',fig. 274.) he considered as fasciculi of communication between the middle median lobe of the cerebellum and the corpora quadrigemina, and the valve of Vieussens as the commissure of these peduncles. We can only regard Gall's vie-w concerning the structure of the cere- bellum as an ingenious speculation. Why should the inferior fasciculi be the roots or primitive bundles of the cerebellum rather than the superior ? Who has seen the reinforcement of these primitive fasciculi in the corpus dentatum ? Why should the corpus dentatum be regarded as a ganglion ? Whence is this distinction between converging and diverging fasciculi ? ♦ and, finally, Why are figure and metaphor employed in reference to strictly anatomical questions ? Another theory regarding the structure of the cerebellum has been offered by Rolando, who by combining the results derived from an examination of the human cerebellum, when hardened in a strong saline solution, with those furnished by the anatomy of the brain of the shark, and those obtained by studying the developement of the brain of the fowl, was led to regard the human cerebellum as formed by the folding and refolding upon themselves of the parietes of a large bladder or vesicle, so as to give rise to innumerable laminae, f The facts we have already stated sufficiently refute this hypothesis. It is quite certain that the cerebellum is formed by the union of one middle and two lateral lobes: the lobes themselves are composed of a considerable number of segments, which are subdivided into smaller segments, laminae, and lamellae. The general structure of the cerebellum is laminated, and these laminae are striated ; each lamella contains two leaflets of white substance covered with grey matter. The cerebellum is connected with the medulla oblongata by the inferior peduncles, and with the brain by the superior peduncles; the middle peduncles and the transverse fibres of the pons establish an intimate connection between the two lobes of the cerebellum. % Developement of the Cerebellum. The cerebellum does not appear until some time after the spinal cord: it consists at first of two laminae and plates prolonged from the cord, which approach each other towards the median line ; these are the inferior peduncles of the cerebellum or the restiform bodies. The human cerebellum in this condition has a close resemblance to the same organ in fishes and reptiles. At the fourth month, the cerebellum forms a sort of uniform girdle, four lines in width, around the tubercula quadrigemina and the medulla oblongata; the pons Varolii is already visible ; there is a rudiment of the corpus dentatum, and the surface of the cerebellum is entirely devoid of fissures. At the fifth month there are four transverse fissures : a vertical section of the cerebellum presents five branches ; but there are as yet neither laminae nor lamellae, nor * " These converging fibres," says Tiedemann (French translation by Jourdan, p. 160.) " are merely chimerical • for the pons Varolii, and the medullary fibres of which it consists are found in the foetus at the fourth month, that is, at a period when there are no lamm», nor lamellae, nor even any leaflets covered with grey matter. Gall, therefore, assumes these converging fibres to originate from parts which do not appear until after those fibres theniselves. Ihe refutation of Tiedemann appears to me to be itself founded on an assumption, for there is no nrnnf that the erev matter is formed after the white. , , t Osservazioni sul- Cerveletto. p. 187. In the shark the cerebellum consists of a grey and a white laver united together and folded a great number of times upon themselves. t It i^f noHet ascertained whether the lateral halves of the cerebellum act upon the san^ or ouDOsite s (fes of the body ; some cases, in which atrophy of one hemisphere of the cerebrum ro pXedw th atrophy of the opposite hemisphere of the cerebellum, would appear to show rtarthe actTin of the latter is not crossed. The laminated structure of the cerebellum and its {wofold composHion suggested to Rolando the idea of comparing it to a voltaic pile, or electro- motive apparatus.