€73 THE INFERIOR PHRENIC ARTERIES. D 2 The Lumbar Arteries. Dissection. Remove the pillars of the diaphragm and the psoas muscles. In order to expose the dorsi-spinal branches, dissect the posterior spinal muscles, and open the vertebral canal. To expose the anterior branches, dissect the abdominal muscles carefully. The lumbar arteries (I I, Jig. 199.) continue the series of intercostals, with which they present numerous analogies in reference to their origin, course, and termination. They vary in number from three to five, but there are usually four. These varieties depend either upon the greater or less size of the ilio- lumbar artery, which bears the same relation to the lumbar arteries as the superior intercostal does to the aortic intercostals, and which sometimes takes the place of the last, sometimes of the last two lumbar arteries; or the va- rieties may depend on several lumbar arteries arising from a common trunk. Origin. The lumbar arteries are given off at right angles from the back of the aorta. Very rarely the right lum- bar arteries arise by a common trunk with the left. Course. They proceed transversely in the grooves on the bodies of the vertebrae, and pass under the tendinous arches of the psoas, by which muscle they are covered. They send a great number of branches to the bodies of the vertebrae; and having reached the base of the transverse processes, each of them divides into two branches, a posterior or dorsi-spinal, and an anterior or abdominal, branch. The posterior branch, which is analogous to the dorsi-spinal of an intercostal strtery, divides into two branches: one, the spinal, which enters the spinal canal through the intervertebral foramen, and subdivides into a vertebral branch for the body of the vertebra, and a medullary branch for the cord and its coverings ; the other branch is the dorsal, which terminates in the muscles and integuments of the lumbar region. The anterior branch is smaller, and analogous to the anterior branch of an intercostal artery: it is situated between the quadratus lumborum and the middle layer of the aponeurosis of the transversalis, and ramifies in the sub- stance of the abdominal muscles. The anterior branch of the first lumbar artery runs along the lower Border of the twelfth rib, passes obliquely down- wards and forwards, and divides into two ramusculi, one of which continues in the same course, while the other turns downwards to the crest of the ilium. The anterior branches of the second and third pair of lumbar arteries are generally small: not unfrequently the third artery is wanting. The anterior branch of the fourth lumbar artery runs along the crest of the ilium, and sends branches to the muscles of the abdomen and to the iliacus and glutsei muscles. The Inferior Phrenic Arteries. Dissection. Carefully detach the peritoneum from the lower surface of the aiapnragm.