851 THE ORGAN OF TASTE. V 3 tn k-that it is impossible to separate one from the other. Moreover, this membmie is constantly kept in a state of humidity, and occupies the first '"IS ^^t2t ^y5/aS^rSar'''S;he elements of the skin are found ^''•Sfp^wS S^^ns^as the densest part of the chorion of the skin: a very ^rP^t number of muscular fibres are inserted into it, so that the gustatory membrarcan be moved not only as a whole, but each part of it has its own TW<!^Xrby wWch the surface of the tongue is rendered so rough, may be sdd to represent the papiUary body of the skin in a very highly developed ^'^ThelinffualpapiUa; are suppUed with nerves, which can be more easily shown than those in the cutaneous papiUae. HaUer has traced them into the papiUae; and I have succeeded in doing the same, but without being able to ascertain their mode of termination. , ,. , , , ^ ■ The papillffi also receive bloodvessels, which are so abundant, that, in success- ful injections, the papiUary body appears to be altogether vascular. The lymphatic network. By making a superficial puncture into any part of the membrane which covers the dorsum or the borders of the tongue, we may inject a lymphatic network upon it, precisely similar to that found in the skin. . The mucous body, or rete mucosum, does not exist as a distinct membrane upon the tongue any more than in the skin. I have already stated that it was whilst examining the boiled tongue of the ox that Malpighi discovered a glu- tinous stratum situated between the epidermis and the papillae, and perforated by a number of openings, corresponding to that of the papillte themselves; hence the name of reticulum which he gave itf; but it is as impossible to de- monstrate it upon the tongue as in the skin. The pigmenlum. There is never any black colouring matter in the tongue of the human subject: but it is distinct upon the tongue of some animals, as the ox, and can be easily demonstrated between the papillae and the epi- theUum.J The epithelium. Each papilla is covered with a sort of epidermic sheath, which, according to Haller, was discovered by Mery and Cowper, and which has been perfectly described by Albinus under the name of the periglottis. This epidermis, or epithelium, so easy of demonstration in the lower animals, in which it has the consistence of horn, may be also readily shown in the human subject, although, in accordance with the greater per- fection of the sense of taste in man, the epithelium is comparatively thin. If the upper surface of the tongue be examined with a lens, especially after ma- ceration, the lingual epithelium will be seen to be arranged in precisely the same manner as the epidermis of the skin, and to form a protecting sheath for each papilla. In persons who have sunk after long abstinence, the epithelial covering forms several imbricated layers, which can be rubbed off: the fur which adheres to the tongue is in a great measure formed by this debris of the epithelium somewhat dried. The epithelium of the tongue can be re- moved by friction; and in certain inflammatory diseases the tongue is denuded of it. When one of the lingual papilloC is thus exposed, it becomes excessively painful. * If the epidermic tubes, wliich are so remarkably distinct on the foot of the bear, be removed from the papilla;, the latter, when exposed, exactly resemble those of the tongue. T " Hanc fabricam a Malpighio inventam, et a Bellino libenter acceptam, scriptores anato- micorum, et physiologicorumoperum iconibusetiam pictis expresserunt." (Haller, t.v, lib. xiii. p.107.) t [The pigment in these cases, and the lingual rete mucosum also, are the lowermost layers of the extra-vascular squamous epithelium.]