THE AORTA. 667 the tlioracic aorta, and the abdominal aorta. The two latter portions form together the aorta descendens. The Arch of the Aorta. I shall give this name to all that part of the aorta (a h,fig. 198.) which is comprised between its origin from the left ventricle and the point where it is crossed by the left bronchus.* The direction of the arch of the aorta is neither transverse nor antero-pos- terior, but oblique from the right to the left side, and from before backwards; so that it is anterior, median, and substernal in its first portion, and posterior at its termination, and in relation with the left side of the vertebral column. In consequence of these relations, aneurisms of the anterior part of the arch of the aorta frequently affect the sternum, whilst aneurisms of the posterior portion affect the vertebral column. lielutions. We shall examine the relations of the arch of the aorta, first in its pericardiac or ascending portion, and then in its horizontal and descending portions taken together. The pericardiac portion (/, fig. 191.). Concealed, as it were, in the substance of the heart at its origin, it is in relation in front with the infondibulum of the right ventricle, and behind with the concavity of the auricles, which are moulded upon it. On the right, it rests upon the groove between the infun- dibulum and the right auriculo-ventricular orifice; on the left, it is in relation with the pulmonary artery. It is important to note the practical consequences of these relations. I have recently seen a communication between the aorta and the infundibulum. Again, aneurisms of the origin of the aorta may burst into the aui'icles. After leaving the heart, this portion of the aorta is surrounded on all sides, but to a greater extent in front than behind, by the serous layer of the pe- ricardium, which forms a sort of additional coat for it, excepting in front, below, and on the left side, where it is in immediate contact with the pul- monary artery, as that vessel turns round it. Behind, this portion of the aorta is in relation with the right division of the pulmonary artery ; on the right, with the vena cava superior. It follows, therefore, that the pulmonary artery on the one hand, and the aorta on the other, form two half-rings, like the branches of the letter x, which embrace each other by their concavities. The pericardiac portion of the aorta is situated beneath the sternum, from which it is separated by the pericardium and the anterior mediastinum. The second portion, comprising the horizontal and descending portions of the arch. On the outside of the pericardium, the aorta is in relation in front and on the left side with the left pleura, and is separated by it from the correspond- ing lung, which is excavated at that point. The phrenic and pneumogastric nerves are also in immediate contact with it. Behind, and on the right side (/, fig. 171.), it is in direct relation with the trachea, the commencement of the left bronchus, the oesophagus, the thoracic duct, the recurrent nerve, the ver- tebral column, and a great number of lymphatic glands. By its convexity, which is directed upwards, it gives origin to three ^/^''ge arterial trunks, viz. proceeding from the right to the left side, the brachw-ccphalic (e,fig. 198.) or innominate, the left common carotid (/), and the left subclavian {y) arteries. The highest point of the arch is opposite the origin of the brachio-cephalic artery in the infant, and that of the left subclavian in old subjects. The distance between the fourchette of the sternimi, and the highest point of the aortic arch, varies in different ages and individuals : it is generally from ten to twelve lines in the adult; it is much less in the aged and .„l'^''f the arch of the aorta are not well defined ; most authors exclude the first ^nHfn^ """^A fhoundary is marked by the origin of tlie loft subclav an ac- cordmg to some; by he le t bronchus, according to others ; and, lastly, accordinR to a crcat many, by tlic articulation ol the fourtli with the filth dorsal vertebra. '-'-"^ing to a fertat