ANGEIOLOGY. 792 alimentary canal and its appendages, of which it only receives those from the liver, VIZ. the hepatic veins. All the abdominal veins which do not open directly into the inferior cava unite to form a large venous trunk, called the vena porta:. Thus the vena cava inferior receives the renal, the spermatic or ovarian, the lumbar, the suprarenal, and the inferior phrenic veins ; whilst the superior and inferior mesenteric, the splenic, the pancreatic, and the gastric veins open into the vena porta;. It may still be said, however, that the vena cava inferior receives all the abdominal veins ; for, in fact, the veins of the portal system terminate in the vena cava through the medium of the hepatic veins. The portal system is therefore an appendage to the inferior cava. For this reason, and also for the sake of economising subjects, I shall not describe the vena portse and its branches until I have noticed the collateral veins of the vena cava inferior. The Lumbar, or Vertehro-lumbar Veins. The vertebro-lumbar veins are three or four on each side, and correspond to the arteries of the same name ; they have two branches of origin — an external or aidommaZ branch, which represents the intercostal veins, and a^ posterior or doTso-spinal branch, which is itself formed by the imion of two other branches; one muscular or cutaneous, which commences in the muscles and integuments, and the other a proper spinal branch, which forms part of the rachidian venous system, to be hereafter described. By the junction of these two branches a lumbar vein is formed, which runs forwards and inwards in the groove on the body of the corresponding lumbar vertebra, and enters the vena cava at a right angle. The left lumbar veins are longer than the right, in consequence of the vena cava being situated towards the right side of the vertebral column : they pass under the aorta. The Renal Veins. The renal veins are remarkable for their size, and occasion a great increase in the diameter of the inferior cava, above the point where they open into it; they are of unequal size on the two sides, and are unequal in length, on ac- count of the vena cava being placed towards the right side of the vertebral column, and therefore nearer the right than the left kidney : they also run more obliquely on the right side, on account of the right kidney being gener- ally situated lower down than the left. These veins commence in the substance of the kidney by a number of mi- nute divisions, which unite into small, and then into larger branches, gain the surface of the organ, and are collected into a single trunk, either in the hilus, or at some distance from it. The trunk of each renal vein is always placed in front of the corresponding artery. The left renal vein passes in front of the aorta. "We sometimes find one division of the left renal vein in front of the aorta, and another behind it. Plurality of the renal vein appears to me less common than an excess in the number of the arteries. The renal veins receive the inferior suprarenal and several veins from the surrounding adipose tissue. The left renal vein is almost always joined by the spermatic or ovarian vein of that side. In some cases we find several communicating branches between the left renal vein and the superior mesenteric, which is one of the branches of the portal system. The Middle Suprarenal Veins. The middle suprarenal or capsular veins, which are often riuinerous and very large, arc found on the surface of the suprarenal capsules, whilst the