NEUROLOGY. 846 If touch^""^ developed, would greatly interfere with the delieacy of his sense The peculiarity of the human nail consists in its only covering the dorsal surta.ce of the last phalanx, and in its being of considerable breadth, correspond- ing, m this respect, with the horseshoe-like enlargement at the end of the pha- lanx. It follows from this, that the whole of the pulp of the finger is concerned in the exercise of the sense of touch. * The nail is divided into the root, the body, and the free portion : the root is that part of the nail which is covered on both surfaces; the bodij is that part which has one surface free; whilst the third, or entirely free portion, projects beyond the end of the finger, and has a tendency to become incurvated when left to grow naturally. In order to obtain a correct idea of the anatomy of the nails we should, by a longitudinal incision, make a vertical section of the ungual portion of one of the fingers (see ^jr, 229.). We shall then perceive that the root is about one fourth of the_ length of the body of the nail (6); that it is also the thinnest part of the nail; that it diminishes in thickness towards its posterior edge, which is slightly indented, and that it increases towards the body of the nail; that it is flexible, and is received into a duplicature of the skin (c c), to which it is attached by both surfaces ; that the posterior edge and lower surface of the root adhere so slightly to the skin, that they may be said to be merely applied to it; that the upper surface of the root, though it adheres more closely to the skin than the lower surface, is yet much less firmly attached to it than the under surface of the body of the nail, which cannot be torn off without great violence; that the nail is separated from the phalanx by a very thick dermis (c') ; that this skin is of a white colour at the root of the nail, and for some distance in front of it, where it occasions a semilunar white mark, visible through the transparent nail,and called the lunule (lunula); and, lastly, that the dermis, which corresponds to the body of tlie nail, is extremely vascular, and hence the nail has a rosy hue, because its semi-transparency enables us to perceive the colour of the subjacent tissue. One of the most important points in the anatomy of the nail is the nature of Fig. 929. a its connection with the dermis. The fold of the skin, which is called the matrix of the nail, is formed in the following man- ner:— the skin (c, fig. 22^., being the dermis) is prolonged jfrom the finger on to the dorsal surface of the naU, as far as the curved line that marks the posterior boun- dary of the body of the nail; from thence it is reflected backwards, folded upon it- self, as far as the posterior border of the root of the nail. At this point it is again reflected forwards upon itself by passing behind that border, and then (c' c') between the under surface of the nail and the dorsal aspect of the pha- lanx : in consequence of this twofold reflection it follows, that it is always the epidermic surface of the true skin that is in contact with the nail: at the an- terior extremity of the nail the skin again meets, as it were, the epidermis (a'), and becomes continuous with the integument upon the tip of the finger. But what is the arrangement of the epidermis, at the point where the skin is first reflected backwards ? It is prolonged forwards (a), slightly beyond the curved line formed by the reflection of the dermis, and forms a semicircular Section of skin of hand. * The hoof, of which a very perfect example is met with in the horse, is nothing more than a nail which encloses the united phalanges on all sides, like the wooden shoes sometimes worn ; the claiu of carnivorous animals is a nail which covers two thirds of the slender ungual pha- lanx, is compressed at the sides, and terminates in a pointed hook. The nail, properly so called, is found only in man and in quadrumana, and in the latter it approaches in character to the claw. The division of mammalia into ungulated and unguiculated is exceedingly natural, and is, in some measure, represented by certain correlative .md constant riifTerences m all the other parts of the system. (See Anatomie Compnree dc M. tie Blainville.)