THE LINING MEMBRANE OF THE VENTRICLES. 999 by the veins of the corpus striatum, which pass above it; after this junction, the choroid plexuses again separate and enter the lateral ventricles through the foramen (foramen of Monro) which leads from the third to the latera ventricles; within each of the lateral ventricles they describe an elliptical curve (p fig 278 ), which is accurately moulded upon the optic thalamus, and runs' along the fornix in the upper part of the ventricle, and along the corpus fimbriatum in the descending cornu or reflected portion. The upper part of the choroid plexus is very narrow; the lower part is three or foiu- times broader than the upper ; its upper and under surfaces are free, and also its outer border, which contains a large vessel; its inner border is continuous with the velum mterpositum * in the upper part of the lateral ventricle, and in the descending cornu with the pia mater at the base of the brain. The lining membrane of the ventricle adheres intimately to the inner border of each choroid plexus, so that the lateral ventricles are completely closed, and no fluid can escape through the semicircular fissure which extends along their entire course. The choroid plexuses are gi-anular, or rather consist of vascular tufts which are unlike any other structure in the body, and their uses are quite unknown. The Lining Membrane, and the Fluid of the Ventricles. The middle and lateral ventricles are lined by a transparent and tolerably strong membrane, of which the horny lamina between the corpus striatum and thalamus opticus is a part. On tracing this membrane from the third ven- tricle, it is seen to pass into the lateral ventricles through the foramen (of Monro) behind the anterior pLUar of the fornix. From the third ventricle it also descends into the fourth through the aqueduct of Sylvius. It is extremely easy to demonstrate this membrane, especially upon the septum lucidum and corpora striata, and in the digital cavities. In order to separate it to any extent, it must be dissected from without, by gradually removing the layers of cerebral substance by which it is covered. This separation occurs in acute ventricular hydrocephalus in consequence of the pultaceous softening of the surrounding tissue. In the foetus and new-born infant, this membrane can be separated with the greatest facility, on account of its density and the softness of the surrounding parts. Three questions present themselves regarding the ventricular membrane : Is it a serous membrane ? Does it communicate with the arachnoid, so that it ought to be regarded as a continuation of that membrane? How is it arranged along the fissure of each lateral ventricle ? That the ventricular membrane is a serous membrane is shown by the nature of the fluid exhaled into the cavity of the ventricles ; by the structure of the membrane itself, which consists entirely of lymphatic cellular tissue; and by the diseases of the ventricles, which are precisely similar to those of other- serous cavities.f The number of veins which are situated beneath the ventricular membrane has suggested the notion that it was a prolongation or continuation of the pia mater: but these vessels do not belong to the membrane. The continuity of the ventricular membrane with the arachnoid on the surface of the brain has not been demonstrated. I have already said that the so-called canal of Bichat does not exist. It has been stated that each lateral ventricle is divided, both in its direct and reflected portions, by a circular fissure which turns round the optic tha- lamus, and through which the pia mater becomes continuous with the choroid plexus. This fissure is closed by bloodvessels, and some very dense cellular tissue, and in the interior of the ventricle by the lining membrane, which is * Compsirc Jigs. 278 and 279. t The occurrence of acute and chronic serous effusions, of purulent lormations, and of miliary granulations in the ventricles, are proofs of the serous nature of their liniuc membrane [ 1 he ventricular mcmljranc has a ciliated epithelium on its inner surface.]