ANGEIOLOGY. •S2 The thoracic duct receives, whilst in the thorax, a very large trunk, which is derived from the liver, and perforates the diaphragm through a special opening. I have seen this trunk cross and continue in front of the thoracic duct, being equal to it in size, and at last enter it opposite the fifth dorsal ver- tebra. The thoracic duct has been observed to end on the right side, and then the lymphatics of the left side of the head, left upper extremity, left lung, and left side of the heart, entered separately into the subclavian vein of the cor- responding side. Meckel has correctly observed that such a disposition is a first trace of the lateral transposition of the viscera. Valves. Of all parts of the lymphatic system the thoracic duct has thfe fewest and the smallest valves. The most remarkable are those situated at its termination in the subclavian vein; their free borders are turned towards the vein, so that they oppose any influx of the venous blood into the thoracic duct. The free borders of the other valves, when they exist, are turned upwards, their convex borders being directed downwards: the course of the fluid within the duct is therefore from below upwards. The Right Thokacic Ddct. The great right lymphatic duct, or right thoracic duct, is a large vessel, the common trunk of all the lymphatics derived from the right half of the head and neck, the right upper extremity, the right lung, the right side of the heart, and often also of those from the right half of the diaphragm and of the liver. This trunk {v,fig. 223.), which is not more than an inch long, resembles the curved portion of the thoracic duct; it opens at the angle formed by the junc- tion of the right internal jugular and subclavian veins. Sometimes this common trunk does not exist, and then the lymphatics by the junction of which it is usually formed, enter the veins separately. Anas- tomoses always exist, moreover, between the left and right thoracic ducts. The Lymphatic System of the Lowek Extremity. The Lymphatic Glands of the Lower Extremity. The lymphatic glands of the lower extremity are the anterior tibial gland, the popliteal gland, and the inguinal glands. The anterior tibial gland is situated at a variable height in front of the interosseous ligament, generally at its upper part. Hewson has seen it below the middle : Meckel has found two glands here; but the existence even of one gland is not constant. The popliteal glands are four in number; one of them is situated immediately beneath the fascia ; the other three are placed deeply at variable heights along the vessels of the popliteal space : they are rather small. The inguinal glands are the most numerous and important; they are situated in the fold of the groin, below Poupart's ligament, and are generally grouped around the entrance of the internal saphenous into the femoral vein, in a sort of depression formed between the adductor longus and pectineus on the inside, and the psoas and iliacus on the outside. They are not unfrequently continued along the internal saphenous vein as low down as the middle of the thigh. They are divided into superficial and deep. The latter are very variable in size and number, and are often wanting : they are sometimes continuous with the super- ficial, through the saphenous opening in the fascia lata. The number of the superficial glands also varies much : it is nearly always inversely proportioned to the size of the glands, which is also subject to great variety in different in- dividuals and at different ages. There can be no doubt that these differences in number and in size depend, ccsteris paribus, no less upon actual differences than upon the subdivision of one gland into several, or rather upon the union