ANTERIOR BRANCHES OF THE DORSAL NERVES. 1063 the abdomen through the linea alba. Sacrifice one half of the thorax, or rather break the ribs through the middle, so as to trace the nerves from within outwards. . ^ . , , » The anterior branches of the dorsal nerves, twelve m number, are mtended for the parietes of the thorax and abdomen.* These branches offer at once a great uniformity, and a great simplicity m their distribution. I shall first explain their common characters, and shall then notice the peculiarities presented by each. Common Characters. The anterior branches of the dorsal nerves or the intercostal nerves, separated from the posterior branches by the superior costo-transverse ligament, appear like flattened cords, which pass to the middle of the corresponding intercostal space (see Jig. 268.); there they are situated between the pleura and the apo- neurosis which is continuous with the internal intercostal muscle. After pro- ceeding for a certain distance, they pass between the external and internal intercostal muscles, and approach the groove of the rib above, but they are not lodged in it, for they always lie below the intercostal vessels. At about the same situation in each space, that is to say, about half way between the vertebral column and the sternum, the intercostal nerves divide into two branches, the one intercostal, and the other perforating or cutaneous. The intercostal branch is the continuation of the trunk of the nerve, and is distinguished from it only by its smaller size. It runs along the lower border of the rib above, and then that of the corresponding costal cartilage ; it is sometimes situated on the internal surface of the cartilage, and having reached the forepart of the intercostal space, it perforates this space from behind for- wards, runs along the sternum, is inclined somewhat inwards over that bone, and is then reflected outwards, between the pectoralis major and the skin, to which latter it is distributed. These small filaments may be called the anterior perforating filaments. During its course, the intercostal nerve and its continua- tion give off a great number of nervous filaments. Not unfrequently the in- tercostal nerve gives off, in the back part of the space, a small branch, which reaches the upper border of the rib below. When this branch does not exist, its place is supplied by several twigs which have a similar distribution, some of which even pass to the intercostal space below, crossing obliquely over the internal surface of the rib. In like manner, we sometimes find some small twigs proceeding from the upper side of the nerve over the internal surface of the rib above, and reaching the next intercostal space. Lastly, from the lower side of the intercostal nerve and its continuation a series of twigs are given off, which divide into filaments that curve towards each other so as to form arches or loops, from which the terminal filaments proceed. In no part of the body are there found longer or more delicate nervous filaments; some of them run through half the length of an intercostal space without di- minishing in size, and several evidently belong to the periosteum. The perforating or cutaneous branches are often larger than the intercostal branches ; they pass very obliquely through the external intercostal muscles, and after running for a certain distance between those muscles and the ser- ratus magnus, each of them divides into two smaller branches, the one anterior, and the other posterior or reflected: the anterior branches run horizontally forwards, become subcutaneous by escaping between the digltations of the serratus magnus in the eight superior intercostal spaces, and between the diglt- ations of the obliquus externus abdominis in the four lower spaces, and then, becoming applied to the skin, spread into a number of filaments, which almost always anastomose with the adjacent filaments of the nerves above and below. The posterior or reflected branches immediately perforate the serratus magnus and the obliquus externus abdominis, are reflected upon themselves, pass back- • Haller only admits eleven dorsal nerves, because he considers, and not without reason, tte twelfth as a lumbar nerve. '