ANGEIOLOGY. 750 externus, and then terminates in three periosteal branches. One, which is su- perior and transverse, turns round the lower end of the femur, and anastomoses -with the corresponding branch of the second internal superior articular; another and inferior branch ramifies upon the inner condyle, and anastomoses freely by a great number of branches with the external inferior articular ; the third is a more superficial branch for the patella, on the side of which bone it runs, and near its upper border gives oflp a transverse twig, which anastomoses on the upper border of the patella with a similar one from the internal superior ar- ticular arteries, and a descending twig, which runs along the outer border of the bone, and anastomoses with the external inferior articular artery. The inferior articular or collateral arteries of the knee are also divided into the internal and the external. They both arise from the front of the popliteal artery, opposite the middle of the knee joint. The internal inferior articular artery {c, fig. 211.') runs downwards and in- wards, and having reached the internal tuberosity of the tibia, turns horizontaUy forwards, passes beneath the tendons of the semi-tendinosus, semi-membranosus, and gracilis muscles, and also beneath the internal lateral ligament of the knee, turns upwards upon the inner side of the anterior tuberosity of the tibia and ligamentum patellse, describing a curve with its concavity directed upwards, and anastomoses either with the superior articular arteries or with the anterior tibial recurrent. During its course it gives off ascending and descending periosteal and osseous branches.* The external inferior articular artery (b,fig. 217.) arises opposite the internal vessel, turns horizontally forwards, not upon the external tuberosity of the tibia (for this is prevented by the tibio-fibular articulation), but upon the convex borders of the external semilunar cartilage, passes beneath the tendon of the biceps and the external lateral ligament of the knee joint, and terminates by dividing into an ascending branch which runs upwards along the outer border of the patella, a descending branch which anastomoses with the anterior tibial recurrent, and a transverse branch which passes behind the ligamentum patellaj below the patella, and anastomoses with a similar branch from the internal in- ferior articular. The inferior articular arteries complete the arterial circle which surrounds the patella, and from which numerous branches are given o£F, some covering the patella by their anastomoses, and others entering the bone directly through the numerous foramina which exist upon its surface. The middle articular arteries (_s,fig. 215.) consist of several small branches, which arise directly from the front of the popliteal artery, or from the external inferior articular, run from behind forwards into the interior of the knee joint, and are distributed in the inter-condyloid notch to the crucial ligaments, the adipose tissue, the synovial membrane, and especially to the lower extremity of the femur, which they penetrate through the large foramina on the adjacent surface of each condyle. The middle articular artery or arteries belong, there- fore, to the knee joint exclusively, and do not assist in the restoration of an impeded circulation : in this respect they differ entirely from the other articular arteries, which acquire a very considerable size when the principal trunk has been tied. The Antekior Tibial Arteey. Opposite the lower border of the popliteus muscle, the popliteal artery di- vides into two branches —an anterior, named the anterior tibial (a, fig. 217.) ; and a posterior, which forms the continuation of the popliteal, and may be de- nominated the tibio-peroneal trtink (J). This trunk soon subdivides into the posterior tibial (t) and the peroneal (k) arteries. The anterior tibial artery {a, figs. 216, 217.), the anterior branch of the bifur- cation of the popliteal terminates opposite the dorsal annular ligament of the * By osseous branches, I mean those which enter the bone directly, through the foramina, on the internal and external tuberosities of the tibia.