ANGEIOLOGY. 796 It follows, from the previous description, that, in the liver, the branches of the hepatic veins and those of the vena porta; run directly across each other, since the latter diverge from the centre of the organ towards its right and left extrem- ities, while the former converge from the anterior towards the posterior border. Moreover, the branches of the hepatic veins are unaccompanied by other vessels, and are in direct contact with the tissue of the liver ; whilst those of the vena portse are separated from it by the capsule of Glisson, and are ac- companied by the ramifications of the artery, the nerves, and the hepatic ducts. I shall further remark, that, although the hepatic veins gradtially unite like other veins into branches, which decrease in number, but increase in size, they most of them receive besides, during their course, a multitude of capillary vessels, the interlobular hepatic veins, from the neighbouring lobules; so that their internal surface is perforated with innumerable foramina. The cribriform structure of their internal surface is therefore a peculiar characteristic of all the hepatic veins [except the very large ones], and en- ables us always to distinguish them from the branches of the vena portse. Lastly, the capillary communication between the extremities of the vena portse and hepatic veins is extremely free, as may be shown even by very coarse injections. All the veins of the portal system are without valves*, and they can there- fore be injected with the greatest ease from the trunks towards the extremities. An injection thrown in towards the intestine penetrates very readily into the interior of the alimentary canal, so that the minute branches of the vena porta; appear to open at the apex of each villus. This can be made evident by throwing mercury into the vena portse, and then forcing it on by an ordinary injection; drops of the mercury will then be seen in the open mouth of each villus.f The system of the vena portse is not so completely isolated from the general venous system as is commonly stated. It always communicates with branches of the internal iliac veins by means of the middle ha;morrhoidal veins, and communicating branches with the renal veins have also been noticed; and hence injections of the vena cava inferior always enter in a greater or less degree into the veins of the portal system. The common Iliac Veins. The common iliac veins (n n. Jig. 222.) correspond exactly to the arteries of the same name; they commence opposite the sacro-vertebral articulation by the junction of the internal and external iliac veins, and terminate by uniting at an acute angle to fonn the vena cava inferior or ascendens, the point of union being opposite the articulation of the fourth and fifth lumbar vertebrae, to the right side of, and a little below, the bifurcation of the aorta. The common iliac veins have the same relation to the lower extremities that the brachio-cephalic veins bear to the upper; and as the right brachio- cephalic vein is shorter and more vertical than the left, so also is the right common iliac vein shorter and more vertical than the left. The relations of the common iliac veins with the corresponding arteries is remarkable, inasmuch as they are placed between these vessels and the ver- tebral column. The right common iliac vein is situated to the outer side of and behind the corresponding artery, and is parallel to it; whilst the left common iliac is situated on the inner side, and behind the corresponding artery, and is covered by it at its lower part. At the point where the left common iliac vein joins the vena cava inferior, it is also crossed obliquely by the right common » M. Bauer says, that he has seen valves in the venous vasa brevia of the stomach : I have never been able to discover them. . - ^, . , , m: n,. ~ o t rXhe escape of the mercury is due to rupture of the bloodvessels. In the villi, the minute branches of the vena porta; commence in the capillary network described and figured at p. 487. vol. i.l