ANGEIOLOGY, 704 artery of Willis may be regarded as the chief origin of the posterior cerebral, which then seems to result from the union of this communicating artery with the anterior bifurcation of the basilar. The choroid artery. A very small but constant branch (s) arises from the back of the internal carotid, on the outer side of the communicating artery of Willis. This is the artery of the choroid plexus, which passes backwards and outwards, along the optic tract, and consequently along the crus cerebri, to both of which it sends branches, and then enters the lateral ventricle at the anterior extremity of the great transverse fissure of the brain, gives twigs to the hippocampus major and corpus fimbriatum, and terminates in the choroid plexus.* Summary of the Distribution of the common Carotid Arteries. The common carotids are distributed to the head, and to the organs which occupy the front of the neck. The internal carotid belongs exclusively to the brain, and to the organs of vision; and hence, doubtless, at least in part, arises that intimate relation between the condition of the brain and of the eye, which is expressed by the common saying, that the eye is the mirror of the soul. Although the size of the internal carotid is almost always in proportion to that of the brain, yet this artery is not the only one by which that organ is supplied with blood. The vertebral artery, a large branch of the subclavian, completes the arterial system of the brain ; and the fact of an artery, prin- cipally destined for the upper extremity, also sending a branch to the brain, proves that there is nothing peculiar in the quality of the blood transmitted to the encephalon. We have already seen that the ophthalmic artery communicates by its nasal branch with the facial artery, and by its inferior palpebral branch with the infra-orbital branch of the internal maxiUary. But the internal carotid has no direct communication with the external, unless when it gives origin to the ascending pharyngeal and the occipital arteries. I may remark, however, that some meningeal branches are given off by the internal carotid within the cavernous sinus. The external carotid differs from the internal, in giving origin to a very great number of branches, which are distributed to the face, to the parietes of the cranium, to the organs of respiration, and, lastly, to the organs of di- gestion. The facial branches may be divided into the superficial and the deep- seated. The superficial arteries of the face are derived from many sources. The principal one is furnished by the facial or external maxillary ; the others are the transverse artery, or transverse arteries of the face, coming from the temporal; the nasal, a descending branch of the ophthalmic; the buccal, mas- seteric, infra-orbital, and mental, all derived from the internal maxillary. The arteries of the right side communicate very freely and fully with those of the left; and on each side, branches from the different sources communi- cate as freely with each other ; so that, in haemorrhage from any of them the injured vessel must be tied on both sides of the wound. I may call attention to the abundance of arterial vessels in the face, and to the number and size of the muscular and cutaneous branches ; this is evidently connected with the extreme susceptibility of the skin of this region, the existence of the hair- bulbs, and the action of the muscles in giving expression to the features. The deep arteries of the face are principally derived from the internal maxillary. Thus, the spheno-palatine supplies the nasal fossas: some branches of the infra-orbital enter the orbit. We shall afterwards allude to • See vertebral artery (p. 708.), for the completion of the arterial system of the encephalon.