THE TYMPANUM. 891 brane In old subjects, there are some tolerably long hairs at the commence- ment of the auditory meatus, as well as upon the internal surface of the tragus ; they prevent the entrance of dust and insects, which moreover get involved in the ceruminous secretion. „ , , . , , c v The skin of the meatus is further characterised by the presence of a number of sebaceous follicles, or glands, called the ceruminous glands * the orifices of which are visible to the naked eye, and give the skin an areolar appearance. These small glands occupy the entire inner surface of the cartilaginous and fibrous portions of the auditory meatus: from their yellowish brown colour they can be readily seen in oblique sections of the skin. They secrete a rather thick unctuous substance, resembling wax, whence it is called cerumen (cera, wax). It is very bitter, and is partially soluble in water, with which it forms an emulsion which leaves a greasy stain upon paper ; it sometimes becomes ex- ceedingly hard from remaining long in the passage, and then acts as a mecha- nical cause of deafness. By analysis, this substance, according to Berzelius, yields a fatty oil, an albuminous substance, and a colouring matter, and, ac- cording to Rudolphi, a bitter principle like that of the bile. Nature intended, says Soemmerring, that there should be a sufficient quantity of cerumen, not only to keep out insects, but also to diminish the intensity of sonorous vibra- tions. It is therefore a bad habit to remove it artificially unless there be an abnormal accumulation of this substance. The Middle Ear, or Tympanum. Dissection. The cavity of the tympanum may be laid open either from its external waU, by removing the membrana tympani, or from its upper wall, by cutting away the anterior part of the base of the petrous portion of the temporal bone with a strong scalpel; the situation in which this may be done is indi- cated by a fissure or rather a suture, which exists between the petrous and squamous portions ; lastly, the tympanum may be opened from its lower wall, by breaking down the osseous plate of the auditory meatus. In order to show all the parts contained in the cavity of the tympanum, several specimens should be prepared in different ways. It is of importance, moreover, to study the ear in the temporal bones of the adult subject and the foetus, as well in macerated specimens as in such as have been dried without previous maceration. The tympanum, tympanic cavity, or drum of the ear {tympanum, a drum ; d,fig. 251.), is a cavity situated between the external auditory meatus (6) and the labyrinth or internal ear (/); it communicates with the pharynx, and consequently with the air passages, by means of the Eustachian tube (e,fig. 255.); it is prolonged into the mastoid process, by means of the mastoid cells (c), and it is traversed by a chain of small bones (1, 2, 3), named the ossicula auditus. The tympanum is placed in the anterior part of the base of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, above the osseous lamina of the external meatus, and m front of the mastoid process; it is directly continuous with the osseous portion of the Eustachian tube, of which it seems only to be a dilatation. From Its form, which is otherwise irregular, or rather from the two dry membranes formed upon its opposite walls, it has been compared to a military tomi; It IS flattened from without inwards, so that its transverse diameter is tMe shortest. It presents for our consideration an internal and. an external wall, and a circumference. The external wall of the tympanum. This waU is formed by the membrana tympani, w^A by that portion of the temporal bone, in which the membrane is fitted. This portion of the temporal bone is a compact lamina, which is flat m the human subject, but extremely prominent in some animals.