720 ANGEIOLOGY, trunk with it or with tlie sub-scapular; it is given ofiF from the axillary below the pectoralis minor, passes downwards and forwards upon the side of the thorax, between the pectoralis major and serratus niagnus, then between the serratus and the skin, and terminates at about the sixth intercostal space. During this course it gives oS a great number of branches * to the lymphatic glands in the axilla, to the sub-scapularis, pectoralis major, and serratus mag- nus muscles, to the second, third, fourth, fifth, and sixth intercostal spaces, to the mamma, and to the skin. Not unfrequently the inferior thoracic partially supplies the place of the sub-scapular artery, in which case it is as large as that vessel. The Subscapular Artery. The inferior, common, or sub-scapular eLTteij (/), the largest branch of the axillary, arises near the lower part of the head of the humerus opposite the lower border of the sub-scapular muscle, sometimes by itself, sometimes by a common trunk with the posterior circumflex, the long thoracic, or the deep humeral artery ; in the last case it is as large as, perhaps even lai-ger than, the brachial. At its origin, which is from the outer aspect of the axiUary, it has the musculo-spiral nerve to its inner side, and the principal origin of the median on its outer side; it passes in a tortuous manner downwards and out- wards along the lower border of the sub-scapularis muscle, parallel with the teres major, and beneath the head of the humerus f, furnishes large branches to all these muscles, and having arrived below the insertion of the sub-scapu- laris, divides into two branches, a descending or thoracic, and a scapular, pro- perly so called. The descending or thoracic branch (g), which is often given off by the in- ferior or long thoracic, pa.sses downwards and forwards near the axillary border of the scapula, parallel with and behind the long thoracic, and divides into a great number of large branches, some of which enter the latissimus dorsi, several penetrate the serratus magnus even as far as the lowest portion of that muscle, whilst others turn round the lower angle of the scapula, and anastomose with the following or scapular branch, and with the posterior sca- pular derived from the subclavian. The scapular branch (i), properly so called, proceeds along the lower border of the sub-scapularis muscle, in front of the long head of the triceps, and having reached below the scapular attachment of the triceps divides into three branches: an anterior or sub-scapular branch, which dips into the sub-scapular fossa below the muscle and expands into a great number of branches, the highest of which are distributed to the capsule of the shoulder joint; an infra- spinous branch (Jb, fig. 209.) which turns round the axillary border of the sca- pula, runs between the muscle and the infra-spinous fossa, and anastomoses, by a considerable branch, with the termination of the supra-scapular artery ; a median branch (c, ^5-. 209.), which continues in the original course of the vessel, runs along the axillary border of the scapula, between the teres major and minor, then becomes posterior, and terminates by anastomosing again upon the lower angle of the scapula with the thoracic branch of this artery and with the infra-spinous branches of the supra-scapular. » FThese branches represent the alar thoracic artery, and sometimes arise directly from the aviUarv behind the pectoralis minor, or from the sub-scapular.] . . k. + The relation of the sub-scapular artery to the head of the humerus appears to me to be imoortant In abduction this artery is much stretched, and 1 am surprised that it has not been Inr^in some cases of luxation ; on the contrary, the circumflex artery, and, therefore, the cir- cumflex n"Ae appear to me to be much less liable to be stretched during abduction. Never- Sess Tt il cerE that the circumflex nerve has been lacerated in some dislocations of the humerus, because they have been foUowed by paralysis of the deltoid muscle.