675 THE HEPATIC ARTERY. D 3 Fig. 200- (arteriu coronaria veniriculi), and terminates by inosculating with the pyloric artery (e), a branch from the hepatic. In this course it gives off from its convex border ascending esophageal branches, which pass through the oeso- phageal opening of the diaphragm, ascend upon the oesophagus, and are there distributed like the aortic oeso- phageal branches, with which they anastomose; also cardiac branches, which form a vascular network around the oesophageal opening of the stomach, and pass transversely upon its great tuberosity; and a series of gastric branches, which arise along the lesser curvatvire, and are divided into two sets, an anterior set for the front, and a posterior set for the back of the sto- mach. No branch arises from the con- cavity of the curve formed by this artery. Not unfrequently the coronary ar- tery of the stomach gives off an he- patic branch, and hence the first branch of the coeliac axis has been called the gastro-hepatic by some anatomists. In such cases, as may be conceived, this artery is very large. It is also not un- common to find the left inferior phrenic arising from it. The Hepatic Artery. The hepatic artery (c, figs. 200, 201.) is larger than the preceding. It passes transversely from the left to the right side, describing a curve, having its concavity directed upwards, and moulded, as it were, upon the lobulus Spigelii. Near the pylorus it changes its direction, and passes upwards to the transverse fissure of the liver, where it divides into two branches. In the latter part of its course it is contained within the gastro-hepatic omentum, in front of the foramen of Winslow, and is in relation with the ductus chole- dochus and the vena portse, the vein being placed behind both the artery and duct. It is not uncommon to find two hepatic arteries, one derived from the coronary of the stomach, and the other from the superior mesenteric. Some- times there are even three hepatic arteries, one from the coronary of the stomach, a second from the superior mesenteric, and a third from the coeliac axis. Collateral branches. The hepatic artery gives off three collateral branches, the pyloric, the right gastro-epiploic, and the cystic. The pyloric artery (e) is a small vessel which arises from the hepatic, near the pylorus: it runs from right to left along the pylorus and the lesser curvature of the stomach, and inosculates with the coronary artery (6) of that viscus. Two sets of branches, an anterior and a posterior, arise from its convex border, and are distributed to the stomach and the first part of the duodenum, in the same manner as those from the coronaria ventriculi itself. Not unfrequently the pyloric artery terminates near the pylorus, without anas- tomosing with the coronary. The right gasIro-epiploic artery (/, figs. 200, 201.) is remarkable for its