NEUROLOGY. 904 The axis or columella of the cochlea. From the bottom, or rather from the posterior part (rf, fig. 2C0.) of the bottom of the iaternal auditory meatus, arises a bony process, which is directed almost horizontally outwards ; it occupies the centre or axis of the cochlea, and around it both the tube and spiral lamina describe their several turns. This bony process is called the axis of the cochlea, columella, modiolus, or nucleus (6, figs. 262. 264.). It extends from the base to the summit of the cochlea, but undergoes certain changes during its course. Op- posite the first turn it is extremely thick, but becomes much thinner in the first half of the second turn. In the second half of the second turn, and in the last half turn, it is replaced by a cup-shaped lamella, called the infundihulum{scy^\\\is, Vieussens; c, fig. 262.), the expanded portion of which is turned towards the cupola (/) of the cochlea. The modiolus or axis of the cochlea, then, has three perfectly distinct parts. The base of the modiolus, -which is seen at the bottom of the auditory meatus, is marked by a very distinct spiral tract {d, fig. 260.), perforated with foramina, through which the filaments of the auditory nerve are transmitted. It is the tractus spiralis foraminulentus of Cotugno. The apex of the modiolus when examined in a cochlea which has been opened from the under surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, presents a decidedly infundibuliform figure. But in a cochlea which has been opened from its upper surface (fig. 264.), on the contrary, it has the appear- ance of a very slender stalk, continuous with the rest of the modiolus, and proceeding directly to the cupola of the cochlea. This twofold structure de- pends upon the fact, that the terminal lamella of the modiolus forms only hah' a funnel, which half is turned towards the lower half of the cochlea. This terminal lamella of the viodiolus, which has been very well described by Huguier, is of a triangular form, extends through half a turn of a spiral, and adheres to the inner surface of the tube of the cochlea by its external convex border. Its internal border or margin is straight and free, and is the only part of this lamella which is seen when the cochlea is opened from above, whilst its con- vex border and its surfaces are distinctly seen when the cochlea is opened from below. The hamulus (e,fig. 262.) of the osseous portion of the lamina spiralis terminates opposite the middle of this free border or margin. The surface of the modiolus is marked like a screw by two furrows corre- sponding to the two lamellae of the osseous part of the spiral lamina ; this sur- face is pierced with foramina for the branches of the auditory nerve. If the modiolus be divided longitudinally (fig. 264.), it will be seen that its centre is traversed by a number of canals, for the passage of the branches of the auditory nerve. These canals open by the foramina on its surface. In the centre of the half funnel formed by the ter- minal lamella of the modiolus is an opening, through which the terminal filament of the cochlear branch of the auditory nerve passes out; it is the orifice of the tubulus centralis modioli. Tlie scalcE of the cochlea. The spiral lamina {d d, fig. 264.) divides the cavity of the tube of the cochlea into two secondary cavities (c e, c e), called the scales of the cochlea. They are distinguished as the external, superior, or vestibular scala (scala vestibuli; c c, figs. 263, 264.), and the internal, inferior, or tympanic scala (scala tympani; e e). The first (c c, fig. 265.) communicates directly with the vestibule (between t and s); the second, which commences at the fenestra rotunda (s,fig. 258.), would communicate with the tympanum if that fenestra were not closed by a membrane ; hence the term scala clau.ia. The tympanic scala is decidedly larger than the vestibular. The section of either of the scala;, at right angles to its axis, is semicircular. »r-i The two scala; communicate near the summit of the cochlea (at n,jigs. .soo. Cochlea magnified.