1100 NEUROLOGY. a root of the third cranial nerve; other anatomists have considered it as » dependence of the fifth. " <w a The Central Extremity of the Trigeminal Nerve. Apparent origin. The trigeviinal, or trifacial nerves (5, Jig. 276.), the middle sympathetic, or the fifth pair, are the largest of the cranial nerves, excepting the optic : they arise at the sides of the pons Varolii, at the point where the pons hecomes continuous with the corresponding peduncles of the cerehellum, and exactly where the middle fibres of the pons cross in front of the inferior, to form that peduncle, so that the fasciculi of origin appear to converge from a narrow slit in the pons itself. This origin {h,Jig. 295.) consists of two roots, the large and the small root, which have a small prominence between them. The large or ganglionic root is a thick, fasciculated mass, which is as it were constricted at its point of emergence, but immediately expands into a thick flat bundle, in which we may count about 100 fibres. On tearing ofi' this bundle, all the fibres do not give way opposite the same place, and a sort of mamillary prominence is left, which Bichat regarded as belonging to the pons, as intended for the nerve to arise from, and as having the effect of multiplying the surfaces of origin, in consequence of its convexity. The small root, which is non-ganglionic, is composed of small and very dis- tinct bundles, which arise from the pons, above and behind the great root, by several cords; it emerges from the pons through a fissure distinct from that for the great root, and gains the upper border of that root. It will hereafter be seen that the small root has no share in the formation of the gangliform plexus known by the name of the semi-lunar or Gasserian ganglion, and that it goes exclusively to assist in forming the inferior maxillary division of the fifth nerve. Real origin. Until modern times, the origin of the fifth nerve had not been traced beyond the point of its emergence. Late authors have described its real origin with so much detail that little remains to be desired. Gall, while examining the fifth nerve, first in mammalia and then in the human subject, saw that in many the origin of the nerve is concealed by certain transverse fibres of the pons which do not exist in the lower animals. Having traced the nerve by clearing off the fibres of the pons, he thought he observed that the great root divided into three principal fasciculi, which he conceived arose in succession fi-om the grey matter of the pons, and which he succeeded in tracing as far as to the outer side of the olivary body. * Rolando, by successive sections made through the pons towards the medulla oblongata, has clearly shown that the great root of the fifth nerve consists of only one fasciculus, which runs downwards and backwards under the form of a thick cord (see^jf. 295.) in the substance of the pons, or rather at the boundary between the pons and the middle peduncle of the cerebellum, parallel to the fasciculi of the anterior pyramid, and that it progressively diminishes in size until it disappears opposite to the inferior angle of the fourth ventricle. The examination of this origin in a brain hardened by alcohol, or still better in the foetal brain, confirms Roland's observations, and proves that the great root of the fifth nerve comes from the back part of the medulla oblongata, from the interior of its fasciculi of reinforcement (faisceaux innominis). f As to the small root, it cannot be traced beyond the surface of the pons. % » In the human subject the origin of the fifth nerve is extremely deep seated ; it is not so deep in tlie carnivora, and still more superficial in ruminantia. In oviparous animals, which have neither a pons Varolii, nor lateral lobes of the cerebellum, nor pyramids, nor olivary bodies, the origin of the fifth pair is seen without any dissection. t Vicq d'Azyr says that the roots of this nerve extend as far as the cerebellum, but this assertion has not been verified. The same anatomist declares that he has often seen the fifth nerve of the right side larger than that of the left. .. , . r.i,» 1 .Iccording to Dr. .41cock, there is a slight enlargement at the origin of the large root ol the fifth nerve, in the lower part of the floor of the fourth ventricle; he has also traced the small root to this enlargement, from which he states that two oords descend, one to the anterior, tne