1000 NEUROLOGY. firmly attached on both sides of the fissure to the adherent borders of the corresponding choroid plexus. It cannot be admitted that it passes from one side of the fissure to the other so as to inclose the plexus. It is this membrane which prevents any fluid contained in the ventricles from infiltrating into the sub-arachnoid cellular tissue at the base of the brain. The very frequent coincidence of ventricular dropsy with the formation of false membrane in the ceUular tissue at the base of the brain shows the re- lation between that tissue and the lining membrane of the ventricles, but by no means establishes the existence of any direct communication between the ventricular cavities and the cellular tissue at the base of the brain. The ventricular fluid. The existence of a serous fluid in the ventricles was generally admitted by the older anatomists, who named it pituita, and con- sidered it to be an excrementitioris fluid, which was evacuated through the nasal fossse. During the last century, anatomists were so convinced of its existence in all subjects, that they regarded those cases in which it was not found as exceptions; a' recentissimis cadaveribus abest nonnunquam, says Haller, in speaking of an observation made by Verduc upon the brain after death by decapitation. But the anatomists of the last centui'y differed from the ancients, in regarding the existence of fluid in the ventricles as a post-mortem phe- nomenon, depending on the condensation, by cold, of a vapour which in their opinion alone exists in the ventricles during life. This vapour, the only use of which, according to the view stated, would be to prevent adhesion of the opposite walls of the ventricles, was compared by them to that which is found in the pleura, pericardium, and peritoneum of a living animal. The experiments of M. Magendie have proved the existence of a ventricular fluid during life; and further, that it may flow backwards and forwards into the spinal sub-arachnoid space, through the opening {y, fig. 282.) in the lower part of the fourth ventricle. The quantity of fluid in the several spaces found in the cranial cavity is extremely variable, for it increases or diminishes according to the relative bulk of the brain in reference to the osseous case of the skull. Having thus examined the brain by horizontal sections made at different heights from the convex surface towards the base, it is important, in order thoroughly to understand the parts we have described, to study them under different aspects, either by means of particular sections, or by the aid of the various methods adopted by difl'erent anatomists. A Median Vertical Section of the Brain. Upon this section {fig. 282.), which divides the brain into two perfectly Pig. 282. similar halves, a great many objects are seen: and first, the optic thalamus and corpus striatum, which might be said to form the central nucleus or root of the cerebrum.