NEUROLOGY. of the orbit, at the upper part of the margin of the optic foramen, or rather from the fibrous sheath given off from F4'-237. the dura mater around the optic nerve. It arises by short and radiated tendinous fibres, to which the fleshy fibres succeed, in the form of a thin flat muscle, that passes outwards in a line parallel with the axis of the orbit, is reflected upon the ^ globe of the eye, and ends in an aponeu- ' rotiQ expansion, which is inserted in the upper border of the tarsal cartilage of the upper eyelid. Relations. It is covered by the perios- teum of the roof of the orbit, it is covered obliquely at its origin by the oph- thalmic nerve, and it covers the superior rectus muscle. Action. This muscle raises the upper eyelid, and draws it backwards, so- that the upper border of the eyelid is concealed under the orbital arch. The Rectus Superior or Levator Oculi. The superior rectus (b) has two very distinct origins. The first resembles that of the levator palpebrae superioris in being from the upper part of the fibrous sheath of the optic nerve, but it is on a lower plane than that muscle; the second is from the inner margin of the sphenoidal fissure, i. e. between that fissure and the optic foramen. The latter origin, which is continuous with those of the external rectus, appears to take place from the sheath furnished by the dura mater to the third cranial or motor oculi nerve. The fleshy fibres arising from this radiated tendon form a flat bundle, which passes forwards and outwards, in the direction of the axis of the orbit, and is reflected upon the eyeball, where it becomes converted into a broad and thin aponeurosis, and is inserted into the sclerotic coat, at a short distance from the cornea. This muscle, like all the other recti, is in relation with the periosteum of the orbit, from which it is separated towards the inner side by the levator palpebrae superioris; it covers the optic nerve and the eyeball. The Rectus Inferior or Depressor Oculi. The inferior rectus (c) arises together with the internal and external recti by a common tendon, called the tendon or ligament of Zinn, which is attached to the lower half of the optic foramen, and more particularly to a depression which is seen to the inner side of the sphenoidal fissure. Almost immediately after its commencement this tendon divides into three branches, from the middle one of which the inferior rectus muscle arises, and then passing horizon- tally forwards and outwards, is reflected upon the globe of the eye, and ter- minates in a similar manner to the preceding muscle. TTie Rectus Intemus or Adductor Oculi. The internal rectus (d) has two very distinct origins—one from the tendon of Zinn, the other from the inner side of the fibrous sheath of the optic nerve ; the latter origin is continuous with those of the superior rectus. From these points it passes forwards along the internal wall of the orbit, is reflected upon the globe of the eye> and terminates like the preceding muscles. The Rectus JExternus or Abductor Oculi. The external rectus (e) also has a double origin — one inferior, derived from the ligament of Zinn ; the other superior, from the fibrous sheath of the sixth