929 THE NEURILEMMA OF THE SPINAL CORD. U 2 small articulations ; these folds are situated in the sheath of the cord, and are precisely analogous to those which have been noticed m the tendons during relaxation of the muscles, and those which we shall hereafter have to describe as appearing in relaxed nerves ; they are effaced by extension of the spinal cord, and are reproduced when it resumes its original length. The existence of these folds prevents that stretching of the cord which would otherwise occur in the different movements of the vertebral column. They endow the cord with a certain degree of elasticity. The spinal marrow presents for consideration an anterior, posterior, and two lateral surfaces. i j ■. • -u The anterior surface presents in the median Ime a fibrous band, which runs along the entire length of the medulla, and conceals the anterior median groove. The posterior surface at first sight presents no trace of a median groove. Many anatomists, therefore, and especially Huber, have denied its existence; but with a little care we may detect a very delicate line which indicates the situation of the posterior median groove, to which we shall presently advert. On each side of the median line, both on the anterior and posterior surfaces of the cord, are seen the roots of the spinal nerves, (1 to 31, fig. 268.) which are arranged in four regular lines down the cord, and are divided on either side into the anterior (a. Jig. 267.), and the posterior (b) roots. The differences, which we shall hereafter describe, as existing between these two sets of roots, both in their number, size, and mode of attachment, enable us, at first sight, to distinguish between the anterior and posterior surfaces of the cord. If these roots be detached, it wiU be seen that their place of insertion is marked by a series of depressed points, which together constitute two fui-rows both upon the front and back of the cord, accurately described by Chaussier, under the name of the collateral furrows of the spinal cord. We cannot deny the existence of the posterior collateral furrows, but I do not think that the anterior collateral furrows should be admitted. The sides of the spinal cord are rounded, and narrower than either the an- terior or the posterior surface: there is no furrow upon these sides, as de- scribed by some authors. The two ligamenta denticulata are attached to them. We must next examine the proper membrane of the cord, or the rachidian pia mater, which we shall name the neurilemma of the cord, from its analogy to the neurilemma of the nerves ; we shall then describe the cord itself. Neurilemma of the Spinal Cord, or Rachidian Pia Mater. Dissection. It is difficult to separate the rachidian pia mater from the cord, in the greater number of subjects, on account of the softness of the cord itself and of the rapid changes which it undergoes after death. In order to succeed m doing so It IS advisable to select the body of a person, who has died from an acute disease or from an accident. The spinal cord of new-born infants is more fitted for this purpose than that of adults, not only from its relatively greater density at that period of life, but also from its adhesion to the neu- rilemma being less firm. In the bodies of infants, after making a circular incision through the ueuri- lemma opposite the medulla oblongata, the sheath may be drawn downwards, in the same manner as an eel is skinned, or a stocking drawn off by turning it mside out. When the sheath is more adherent to the cord, it must be very carefully divided along each side of the median furrows, and then detached bv breaking down, with the handle of a scalpel, the ceUular and vascular pro- longations which connect it with the cord. Although the proper covering of the brain, or cerebral pia mater, consists essentially of an interlacement of vessels, the proper sheath of the spinal cord rachidian pia mater, is a fibrous, and therefore a strong membrane which