NEUROLOGY. 918 The Parietal Layer of the Arachnoid. The internal surface of the dura mater is lined with a very delicate and closely adherent serous membrane, which, owing to these two qualities, for a long time escaped the notice of anatomists. It was only by reasoning ana- logically from the structure of all other serous membranes, that Bichat was led to enter upon the inquiry which ended in the discovery of the parietal portion of the arachnoid. This portion is quite distinct from the internal layer of the dura mater, the existence of which we have admitted with several anatomists. Upon a mere inspection we should say, that it does not exist, because, from its transparency, the fibrous bundles of the dura mater can be seen as distinctly as if they were not covered. But if a very superficial incision be made upon the inner surface of the dura mater, some extremely thin shreds may be de- tached by the aid of the forceps. Lastly, ecchymosis not unfrequently occurs between the dura mater and the arachnoid.* Ossific deposits in the dura mater, especially those found in the falx cerebri, being found beneath the arachnoid, sometimes enable us to detach this latter membrane in the most distinct manner. It stiU remains, however, to describe the mode in which the parietal and cerebral portions of the arachnoid become continuous with each other. It has been stated that the arachnoid membrane forms tubular prolongations around each of the nerves, which are given off from the base of the brain, and around each of the veins which enter the different sinuses : these prolongations just enter the fibrous canals formed by the dura mater for these nerves and veins, and almost immediately terminate by being reflected upon the dura mater itself; so that the arachnoid forms a sort of cul-de-sac around the cranial orifice of each fibrous sheath of the dura mater. In order to see the funnel shaped prolongations of the arachnoid, it is convenient to examine them when the brain is being lifted up from before backwards, in order to expose and di- vide the nerves which are attached to the base of the skull. The tubular pro- longations being then dragged upon, they become very distinct. Not unfre- quently the developement of adventitious false membrane on the base of the brain also extends along these prolongations. The arachnoid does not enter into the interior of the ventricles, below the posterior border of the corpus callosum. The arachnoid canal, called the canal of Bichat, does not exist; but it is formed by the very experiment made to demonstrate it. The following is the statement of Bichat regarding this alleged canal: — " The brain being exposed from behind and allowed to remain in its natural position, the back part of each posterior lobe is to be raised, and drawn gently outwards ; the venae Galeni are then seen emerging from the canal by which they are embraced, and the oval orifice of which is now very apparent. Sometimes, however, the margin of this orifice embraces the veins so closely, that it can only be recognised by a small fissure on each side,' and the parts at first sight would appear to be continuous. If a probe be then glided from behind forwards along these vessels, and when it has penetrated a short dis- tance, if it be turned all round the veins, it will destroy the adhesions, and the opening will become very evident. " In order to be convinced that this opening leads into the middle ventricle of the brain, a grooved director must be introduced, below the vense Galeni, and pushed gently forward: it will enter the ventricle without difficulty. The corpus callosum and the fornix are then to be removed, and the velum inter- positum left untouched. Next dividing the velum on the director, the mem- brane will be found to be smooth and polished in the whole of its course, and » As to the collections of blood which are said to have been met with l^etwecn the arachnoid and the dura mater, M. Baillarget has clearly shown, in several Pr?I?^''»''°"t„ fiimVd mcra^^ scnted to the Anatomical Society, that the supposed layer of arachnoid is a newly formed mem- brane, having all the appearances of a serous membrane.