THE SUPERIOR MESENTERIC ARTERY. 677 The relations of the splenic artery to the posterior surface of the stomach explain how, in certain cases of ulceration of the stomach opposite the pan- creas, this artery may become the source of haematemesis. The splenic artery gives off several collateral branches : — The pancreatic arteries (t i), which are variable in number, and are very large, considering the size of the organ to which they are distributed. The left gastro-epiploic artery (/«), which often arises from one of the divisions of the splenic, passes vertically downwards, behind the great end of the stomach, gains the great curvature, along which it runs from left to right, and anastomoses with a branch of the hepatic, viz. the right gastro-epiploic (/); like which arteiy it sends off ascending or gastric, and descending or epi- ploic branches. The size of the gastro-epiploica sinistra varies much, and has an inverse proportion to that of the gastro-epiploica dextra. The vasa brevia (o o), which are remarkable for their number and short- ness, generally arise from one or several of the terminal branches of the splenic artery, just as these are entering the spleen; they pass directly, by a retrograde course, from that organ to the great cul-de-sac of the stomach, as far as the cardia, where they anastomose with the cardiac branches of the coronary artery of the stomach. From the preceding description of the branches of the coeliac axis, we per- ceive that the stomach is surrounded by an uninterrupted arterial circle, formed by the right and left gastro-epiploic, by the pyloric, and by the coronary ar- teries ; and that, secondly, the branches derived from this circle constitute an anastomotic network upon the anterior and posterior surfaces of the stomach. The Superior Mesenteric Artery. Dissection. Look for the origin of the artery between the pancreas and the third portion of the duodenum; turn the whole of the small intestines to the left side; remove with care the right layer of the mesentery, the left layer of the right lumbar mesocolon, the inferior layer of the transverse meso- colon, and the numerous lymphatic glands which conceal the artery and its divisions. The superior mesenteric artery (below y,fig. 199.) is the artery of the small intestine, and of the right half of the large intestine. It arises from the front of the aorta, imme- diately below the coeliac axis, and very rarely from a common trunk with it. It is at first situated behind the pancreas, and then passes ver- tically downwards, between that gland and the third portion of the duodenum, which is crossed at right angles by it, and of which it forms the lower boundary (vide Dcode- num) ; it at length reaches the me- sentery, opposite the point (ji, fig. 202.) where that fold meets the transverse mesocolon. Continuing Why do these curvatures exist ? It cannot be to accommodate the variations in the size of the spleen; but is it to retard the flow of the blood ? There is no proof of it; indeed, the law which governs the existence of a tortuous condition of certain arteries is yet to be discovered D 4