DEVELOPEMENT OF THE CEREBRUM. 1011 17 It follows therefore, that in the convolutions, a lamellai-striated ar- rangit tl^^^ the fibrous or linear arrangement of the meduUary striatum aTd optL thalamus. StUl there is in each convolution a proper la- meltiThe condnuity of which with the radiating system of the hemispheres, I linvp not been able to trace. Is We should not regard the convolutions as so many sinuous emmences sepa;ated by the anfractuosities: on the contrary, the bottom of the anfrac- tuosity forms he middle part or fold of a layer of white and grey matter, half S whkhryer belongs to one convolution and half to the next convolution (n n na 4h Now it is these white lamellae, which line the grey matter, that'appear to be proper to each convolution; and between these proper lameUse are situated the white striated plates that are contmuous with the radiating fibres of the hemispheres f, which fibres are not arranged in lamelte but merely in lines. , , j ^ • It follows from aU that has been stated, that there are yet several deficiences in our knowledge of the anatomy of the brain, which prevent us from forming a complete idea of its structure. Developement of the Cerebrum, f In the early periods of foetal life, about the end of the second month, the hemispheres are represented by a very thin membrane, which is turned back- wards and inwards so as to cover the corpora striata. The optic thalami, which appear as enlargements of the cerebral peduncles, the tubercula quadrigemina, and the cerebellum, are completely exposed. The corpus callosum does not yet exist. The human brain may then be considered as resembling the brain of fishes. Towards the end of the third month, the membrane of the hemispheres has acquired a further developement, and covers not only the corpora striata but * M. Leuret has been led to the same conclusion regarding the lamellar structure of the convolutions, by studying the brain hardened by boiling it in a solution of salt. t Mr. Herbert Mayo (A series of engravings intended to illustrate the structure of the brain and spinal cord in man, 1825), who has followed the example of Reil, in examining the brain with so much care after it has been hardened in alcohol, admits the existence of three sorts of fibres in each convolution, viz. fibres which pass from one convolution to the next (« u, fig. 283.), and also to more distant convolutions ; fibres which come from the commissures (ssp); and fibres derived from the spinal cord. According to this anatomist, the fibres which pass from one convolution to another constitute the principal part of each convolution; the other white fibres which form the centre of each convolution are derived partly from the commissures and partly from the optic thalami and corpora striata. According to him, the white fibres (i/' q) which form the inferior layer of the cerebral pe- duncles radiate in the substance of the cerebrum, and constitute its anterior and middle fibres. The fibres proceeding from the optic thalami form the posterior cerebral fibres C^). There is, he aflSrms, one point in which the radiating fibres evidently decussate with the fibres from the great commissure of the brain or corpus callosum (as at g,fig. 284.). The posterior radiating fibres do not present this decussation. The two most remarkable fasciculi of communication between the convolutions are the fol- lowing:—that which occupies the bottom of the fissure of Sylvius (I, Jig. 283.; 284.), and which unites the convolutions of the anterior and posterior lobes ; and that (?)/), fig. 283.; I, fig. 284.) which runs above the corpus callosum, crossing at right angles the direction of its fibres, and connects the anterior and superior with the posterior and inferior convolutions. Rolando has not been so successful in his researches into the structure of the cerebrum as in his investigations into that of the cerebellum : the following are the results which he obtained by tearing the brain, and by examining this organ in the fcetus. According to him, the brain is composed of fibres arranged in layers in the following order, proceeding frOm without in- wards :— 1. a white liu'cr reaching into the fissure of Sylvius, and covered by grey matter: 2. a layer from which the fibres of the external convolutions arise ; 3. a layer which is formed by the fibres of the peduncles, and supplies the convolutions of the inner border of the hemisphere • 4. a plane which extends from the optic thalami to the parietcs of the lateral ventricles to form the corpus callosum ; 5. a system of longitudiiml fibres which form the convolutions situated upon the inner .surface of the hemisplicres ; 6. a system of medullary fibres which constitute the fornix and coriiu ammonis ; 7. irilcriial and ext(!rnal corpora striata, to which must be added the anterior tominissures, the perforated layer, and the fasciculus of the external corpus gcni- t Vide TIedemann (translated by M. Jourdanj. BBS