ANGEIOLOGY. 774 ascends to reach the posterior lacerated foramen of its own side (an, Jig. 221.), where it terminates in the internal jugular vein. Like the corresponding grooves, the right and left lateral sinuses are of unequal size, the right being almost always the larger. Both of them gradually increase in size from their posterior extremity, which may be regarded as their origin, to their anterior extremity. A section of the horizontal portion of each lateral sinus, which is situated in the outer margin of the tentorium cerebelli, is triangular, whilst that of its vertical or curved portion is semi-cylindrical. In the first part of its course it projects beyond the corresponding groove in the occipital bone, so as to oc- cupy the fissure between the cerebrum and cerebellum. In the remainder of its course it does not project into the interior of the cranium, or pass beyond the groove which is exactly suited to its dimensions. The internal surface of each lateral sinus is smooth ; and it is not traversed by bands like those found in the other sinuses. However, I once found in the the horizontal portion of this sinus some of the white bodies called glandula; Pacchioni. One of the lateral sinuses has been found divided, in front, into two equal parts, a superior and inferior, by a perfect horizontal septum ; it is very com- mon to find a fibrous lamina indicating a trace of this subdivision. The anterior extremity of each lateral sinus is continuous with the gulf of the corresponding internal jugular vein, and the inferior petrosal sinus of its own side opens into it at the same point. During its course it receives some inferior cerebral veins, some cerebellar veins, and the superior petrosal sinus ( /), which enters it at the point where it changes its direction from horizontal to oblique, i. e. opposite the base of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. The lateral and inferior cerebral veins commence partly on the lateral and inferior parts of the convex surface of the cerebrum, and partly on the base of the brain; they unite so as to form a group of three, four, or five veins, which open into the horizontal portion of the lateral sinus. They enter from before backwards, that is to say, in an opposite direction to the course of the blood in the sinus. One of these veins is sometimes observed to run along the ten- torium cerebelli, with which it is maintained in contact by the parietal layer of the arachnoid, for about an inch before it opens into the lateral sinus. The lateral and inferior cerebellar veins are very large ; they commence upon the lower surface of the cerebellum, and terminate in two or three trunks, which are found upon the circumference of the cerebellum, and open into the horizontal portion of the lateral sinus by perforating its lower wall. A large mastoid vein, which may be regarded as one of the principal origins of the occipital, also opens into the lateral sinus, and thus establishes a free and direct communication between the venous system within and that outside the cranium. The Superior Longitudinal Sinus. The superior longitudinal sinus (6 b, fig. 220.) is a single and median sinus, which occupies the longitudinal groove, and accordingly extends from the crista galli to the internal occipital protuberance; it is formed within the substance of the convex border of the falx cerebri, and is three sided; a section of it represents an isosceles triangle (6, fig. 221.), with its base turned upwards and its apex down- wards. It is small at its anterior ex- tremity, but gradually increases in size as it approaches the confluence of the sinuses (ji,fig.221.) in which it ter- minates. It not unfrequently bifur-