NEUROLOGY. 982 they are of use in multiplying the surface, through which the bloodvessels carry nutritious matter iuto the interior of the organ.* The opinion that the anfractuosities and convolutions are intended to in- crease the surface, has been lately revived; but the supposed object of this mcrease is very different from that stated by Vesalius: thus, it has been agreed, that as there is an undoubted analogy between electrical phenomena and those manifested by the nervous system, and as electrical phenomena are developed, not in proportion to the quantity of matter concerned, but in pro- portion to the extent of surface, so the energy of the brain's action may be in a direct ratio with the extent of its surface. In support of this opinion the phenomena of arachnitis are quoted, in which disease delirium more frequently occurs than in inflammation of the cerebral substance itself. Allusion is also made to the folds observed in the retinae of birds, which greatly increase the intensity of vision : M. Desmoulins, who is a principal supporter of this theory regarding the use of the convolutions, states that he has observed these folds to disappear in birds which had been kept in the dark, in the same way that the cerebral convolutions become atrophied, either from the continued ab- sence of all cerebral excitement, or from any other cause of intellectual weakness. The anatomists and philosophers of antiquity, considering that the convo- lutions were more highly developed in man than in the lower animals, con- cluded that the intellectual superiority of the former was owing to this cir- cumstance. Such was the opinion of Erasistratus, facetiously refuted by Galen.f Gall and Spurzheim have recently revived this old opinion, and assuming with some philosophers the existence of a plurality of mental functions, they have arrived at the conclusion that there is also a plurality of material in- struments or organs, by which those functions are performed. These material organs are supposed by them to be the convolutions, upon which they ac- cordingly placed numbers corresponding to the different mental faculties ad- mitted by their philosophy: the difficulty was to settle on the number of primitive mental faculties and their corresponding organs. According to Gall and Spurzheim, the highest intellectual faculties of man are seated in the an- terior lobes of the cerebrum. On the other hand, from an examination of the brains of fifty insane patients, M. Neumann has been led to think, that the occipital portion of the cerebrum is the seat of intelligence : this opinion derives some support from a fact, which I have myself often observed, viz. that atrophy of the brain of old persons in insanity affects the occipital more than the frontal convolutions ; and also by the fact, that as we descend in the animal series, the posterior part of the brain is observed to be the first to diminish, and then entirely to dis- appear. It is unfortunate for the system of Gall, that the convolutions form a con- tinuous whole, and are not separated into distinct organs; and it is also unfortunate that upon the base of the cerebrum, and upon the internal surface of each hemisphere, there are convolutions as distinctly marked as those upon the convex surface. And yet, in the system of Gall, the convolutions upon * The substance of the brain, says Vesalius, is not firm enough for the arteries and veins to traverse it with impunity; on the other hand, it is so thick, that bloodvessels distributed over its surface would not have been sufficient to nourish the entire mass ; and therefore nature has nrovided certain deep and winding furrows upon the brain, into which the pia mater can pe- netrate, so as to convey to the deep-seated parts the materials for their nutrition; for the same reason the cerebellum has been divided into lamina^ and lamellie. Vesalius even states that the division of the cerebrum into two hemispheres is for no other purpose, (Lib. vii. cap. 4. + '"'Ouum a«ini etiam admodum multipliciter cerebrum habent complexum quod deceret, nuantura ad morum ruditatem attinet, omnifariam simplex et minime varium naiicisci c?- ?ebrur' If Xis Seory be true, says Galen, the ass ouglit to have a ^^i" ' face and no convolutions ; but it has numerous and deep convo utions: ''«'"«^, therefore, arc independent of the convolutions. The conclusion is not obviously contained in the premises.