1082 NEUROLOGY. size, from having given off several branches, it assumes the name of lesser sciatic (/), runs vertically downwards, becoming smaller and smaller, and may be traced down to the posterior region of the leg. The cutaneous branch, as it emerges from the glutseus maximus, gives off a considerable recurrent branch (e), which might be regarded as a terminal branch of the nerve. This branch is reflected upwards so as to describe a curve having its concavity turned upwards, and subdivides into two secondary branches, an internal and an external: the external branch is the larger, and ramifies in the sliin of the gluteal region; the internal or scrotal branch (pu- dendalis longus inferior, Soemmerring) is a very remarkable one ; it is reflected forwards upon the under surface of the tuberosity of the ischium, runs along at some distance from the ascending ramus of the ischium and the descending ramus of the os pubis, anastomoses with the superficial perineal nerve, reaches the scrotum above the testis, and divides into two branches — an external, which passes on the outer side, and an internal, which runs on the inner side of the testis ; having embraced this organ, they are distributed to the skin of the anterior part of the scrotum and the lower part of the penis. In the female, this branch belongs to the labia majora. AU along the thigh, the cutaneous branch of the inferior gluteal nerve gives off some very small external branches, and some larger internal branches which are reflected forwards, describing curves having the concavity turned upwards, and supply the skin of the internal region of the thigh. In the popliteal space, the cutaneous branch divides into two filaments, one subcutaneous, which may be traced, notwithstanding its extreme tenuity, as far as the middle of the posterior region of the leg; and the other sub- aponeurotic, which perforates the fascia of the leg, runs along the external saphenous vein, and anastomoses with the external saphenous nerve. The Nerves for the Quadratus Femoris and the Gemelli. The superior gemellus receives a special nerve from the anterior part of the sacral ptexus. The nerve for the inferior gemellus is a branch of the nerve for the quadratus femoris. The nerve for the quadratus femoris is remarkable. It arises from the front of the sacral plexus, or rather from the limit between this plexus and the great sciatic nerve, passes vertically downwards in front of the gemelli and obturator intemus, by which it is separated from the great sciatic nerve, and it is placed in contact with the os innominatum to the outer side of the tu- berosity of the ischium. It gives off some external periosteal and osseous branches, which enter the foramina in the tuberosity of the ischium ; some internal or articular branches, which perforate the fibrous capsule of the hip- joint ; a branch for the inferior gemellus; and then terminates in the qua- dratus femoris, which it enters by its anterior surface. The Teeminai Bkanch of the Sacral Plexus, oe the Geeat Sciatic Nerve. The great sciatic nerve (grand femoro-poplite, Chauss.) is intended for the muscles of the posterior region of the thigh, and for the muscles and integu- ments of the leg and foot: it is the termination (s, fig. 290.) of the sacral plexus, or rather it is the sacral plexus itself condensed into a nervous cord. The fifth lumbar nerve, a branch of the fourth lumbar, the three superior sacral nei-ves, and a branch from the fourth, form the origins of this great nerve, which is the largest in the body. _ ^ ^ , ^i. It emerges from the pelvis, through the great sciatic notch, below the pvriformis: immediately above the spine of the ischium, passes vertically downwards (s,fig. 293.) between the tuberosity of the ischium and the great trochanter, both of which project so as to separate it from the slun, or more exactly, it runs along the outer side of the tuberosity of the ischium, m a very