INTERNAL SURFACE OF THE DURA MATER. 913 canals which are called the smuses, and also the several folds just described as proiectine from the internal surface of the dura mater. Thus, the periosteal layer of the dura mater enters into and lines the longitudinal groove, but the central layer passes o£F from it on either side; and the two laminiE thus formed by the right and left portions of the cerebral layer approach each other, so as to include between themselves and the periosteal layer lining the groove, a long three-sided interval, which forms the superior longitudinal sinus. The internal layer of the dura mater, which is essentially fibrous, must not be confounded with the arachnoid membrane by which its internal surface is lined, and which will be presently described. The dura mater is evidently composed of fibrous, not of muscular tissue, as was for a long time believed.* It consists of fibres which interlace in various directions. Anatomists generally describe, in connexion with the dura mater, those white granular bodies which are chiefly collected into clusters along the su- perior longitudinal sinus, and which are improperly called glands (the glands of Pacchioni, from the name of the author who first gave a good description of them). These bodies are not found in infants but exist almost constantly in the adult, and are very numerous in old subjects. They are sometimes single and some- times collected into groups; they are, at first, formed upon the internal surface of the dura mater, but after a time they displace the fibres of the internal layer, and separate them into small, parallel, or reticulated fasciculi, and in this way insinuate themselves between the two layers of the membrane. In this situ- ation they form tumours, which project upon the external surface of the dura mater, and occupy corresponding depressions formed in the bones of the cranium. The rough and irregular depressions, so frequently found in the parietal bones of old subjects, and ascribed by the older anatomists to caries of the bone, are occasioned by the clusters of these granular bodies. These bodies often insinuate themselves along the obliquely running veins into the substance of the walls of the sinuses, and project into the interior of the veins and sinuses, so as apparently to be in direct contact with the blood ; but they are, in reality, separated from that fluid by the lining membrane of the vessels and sinuses. Although these bodies are principally collected along the superior longi- tudinal sinus, they are also found, as Haller remarks, opposite the anterior extremity of the straight sinus. I have seen a small pedunculated mass of them, which projected into the interior of the horizontal portion of one of the lateral sinuses, and might have impeded the circulation. I consider that the bodies in question are seated in the sub-arachnoid cellular tissue; in fact, they are often found beneath the arachnoid, at some distance from the longitudinal sinus, along the superior cerebral veins. They always project at first upon the internal surface of the dura mater, and then insinuate themselves into the substance of that membrane. What is the nature of these bodies ? Ruysch noticed them, and considered them to be of a fatty nature. Some authors have likened them to the granu- lations so frequently found in the choroid plexuses; but there is not the slightest resemblance between the two. Pacchioni regarded them as glands which secreted a peculiar lymph. He has even described certain, so called, excretory ducts, which have been said by others to enter the superior longi- tudinal sinus. Those clusters which project into the sinuses have been supposed to act as valves. It has been said that these bodies are lymphatic glands; this also is erroneous ; and, indeed, it is better to confess our ignorance J^'^?^l^°'' treatise of some length upon this membrane, even went so far as ^orl^l' ""^ %'"<'"™ °f 'hree fleshy bellies, viz"! one for each hemisphere, .ind a third for the cerebellum 1 he s.ime author gives a very minute description of the direction of the different layers of hbres m he dura mater. 1 do not believe that there exists in the history of our •ciencc a more striking example of the misapplic.ition of tcxtural anatomy. ^ T 2