CENTRAL EXTREMITY OF THE SEVENTH NERVE. 1101 Cranial course. After emerging from the pons the fifth nerve passes upwards, outwards, and forwards, under the form of a flattened hundle, gains the upper border of the petrous portion of the temporal bone (5, fig. 296.), on which there is a depression that is converted into a canal for the nerve by a fold of the dura mater; the nerve is reflected upon this bor- der, and proceeds as will presently be described. The Central Extremity of the External Motor Nerve of the Eye. The external motor nerves of the eye (6, figs. 276.295.), external oculo-muscular nerves, nervi abducentes, or the sixth pair, which are distributed exclusively to the external rectus or abductor muscle of each eye, and which are so re- markable for their communications with the sympathetic system, are smaller than all the cranial nerves, excepting the pathetic. Apparent origin. The statements of authors regarding the apparent origin of this nerve have been singularly various : some, with Morgagni, describe it as arising both from the pons and the anterior pyramids; others, with Vieus- sens, from the pons alone, and others, with Lieutaud, from the anterior pyra- mids only. Winslow states that it arises between the pons Varolii and the olivary body, and HaUer that it proceeds from the furrow between the anterior pyramid and the pons. The fact is that this nerve, among some varieties of origin, presents two very distinct roots {see fig. 276.) : one internal and smaller, which arises from the pons, either at or near its lower border; the other external and larger, which appears to emerge on the outer side of the upper part of the anterior pyramid. These two roots are fasciculated: not unfrequently some fibres are seen arising from the olivary body, or from the furrow between the two pyramids. Beal origin. This is more easily seen in mammalia generally than in man. In the former. Gall has traced it along the side of the pyramids. Mayo be- lieves that the fibres traverse the pons, and pass to the back part of the me- dulla oblongata. From the tenuity and whiteness of the fibres of this nerve I have not been able to trace their course in the substance of the medulla. Cranial course. This nerve runs upwards and a little outwards, on the side of the basilar groove, and perforates the dura mater (6,^15^.296.) opposite to and above the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone to enter the cavernous sinus: the two roots of the nerve often unite before perforating the dura mater, but they usually pass separately through it and unite within the sinus. 77*6 Central Extremity of the Seventh Nerve. The central extremity of the facial nerve or portio dura of the seventh nerve (7, fig. 270. 276.) The facial nerve (on the inner side of 7) arises in the deep de- pression between the middle peduncle of the cerebellum and the pons in front of the auditory nerve (on the outer side of 7): it emerges from the front of the restiform body, under the form of a fasciculated band, some fibres of which are at first situated at a distance from the general mass, but soon join it; it then turns round the lower borders of the peduncle of the cerebellum, against >nher to the posterior column of the cord. {Cyclop, nf Anat. ami Pliys. art. Fifth Pair of