1047 BRANCHES BELOW THE CLAVICLE. This small nerve, before reaching the subclavius, always gives off a phrenic branch, which passes obliquely inwards in front of the subclavian vein and anastomoses with the phrenic nerve. . The nerve for the levator anguli scapula. This branch arises as frequently from the cervical as from the brachial plexus ; in the former case, it arises trom the fourth cervical nerve, in the latter from the fifth. It arises from the nerve immediately after its exit from the canal of the transverse processes, turns round the scalenus posticus to gain the deep surface of the levator anguli scapulte, enters the muscle, supplies it with a great number of filaments, and perforates it to reach the rhomboideus under which it passes. One of its terminating filaments anastomoses with a filament from the proper nerve for the rhomboideus. The nerve for the rhomboideus. This arises from the fifth cervical nerve immediately below the preceding; I have seen it arise by a common tnuik with the superior branch of origin of the nerve for the serratus magnus ; it passes downwards and backwards between the scalenus posticus and the levator anguli scapulEE, and then beneath the last-mentioned muscle, nearly as far as its scapular attachments, in order to get between the rhomboideus and the ribs; it may be traced as far as the lower part of that muscle. One of its filaments perforates the rhomboideus, and anastomoses in the trapezius with the posterior spinal nerves. Tlie nerve for the serratus magnus {posterior thoracic nerve, of authors, external respiratory nerve. Sir C. Bell). This branch, which is very remarkable for the length of its course, is derived from the fifth and sixth cervical nerves, imme- diately after their exit from the canal of the transverse processes ; .it arises by two roots, which are sometimes equal, and sometimes unequal in size ; it passes vertically downwards behind the brachial plexus and the axillary vessels, in front of the scalenus posticus, reaches the side of the thorax {e', fig. 287.) be- tween the subscapularis and the serratus magnus, runs the whole length of the last-named muscle, and ramifies in its lower portion. During this course, it gives off a great number of filaments to the muscle : the lowest of these may be traced as far as the lowest digitation. The branch which it gives to the upper part of the muscle is remarkable for its size. I have seen a branch from the seventh cervical nerve join the external thoracic nerve upon the upper part of the serratus magnus, so that this nerve would then be derived from the fifth, sixth, and seventh cervical nerves. The supra-scapular nerve, or nerve for the supra- and infra-spinati muscles. This branch (a,286.) is given off from the back part of the fifth cervical nerve at its junction with the sixth ; it passes obliquely backwards, outwards, and downwards, dips beneath the trapezius, and then under the omo-hyoid, the direction of which it nearly follows, and gradually increases in size as it ap- proaches the coracoid notch of the scapula, and passes by itself under the ligament which converts this notch into a foramen ; the supra-scapular artery and vein, which had hitherto been in contact with the nerve, leave it opposite this notch to pass above the ligament, and then join it again in the supra- spinous fossa. The nerve then runs from before backwards in the supra-spinous fossa, pro- tected by a thick fibrous lamella, reaches the free concave border of the spine of the scapula, against which it is held by a fibrous band, is then reflected in- wards and downwards over this concave border to gain the infra-spinous fossa and immediately divides into two branches, one of which spreads out in the upper part, and the other in the lower part of the infra-spinatus muscle. During Its course through the supra-spinous fossa, the supra-scapular nerve gives off two supra-spinous branches, one of which is detached opposite the coracoid notch, and the other upon the spine of the scapula. They both enter the supra-spinatus muscle. The supra-scapular nerve is exclusively destined for the Eupra- and infra- spinati muscles. It gives no filament to the subscapularis.