685 THE SUPERIOR THYROID ARTERY. of the condyle, opposite to which it terminates. It is very slightly tortuous in the adult, and in the infant is almost straight. In the adult it is nearly equal in size to the internal carotid, but it is much smaller in young subjects. It diminishes rapidly in diameter, on account of the number of branches given off from it, so that at its termination it is scarcely one third its original size. Sometimes it divides immediately into a sort of bunch of arterial vessels; in other cases its branches arise in succession from the common carotid, -which is then directly continuous with the internal carotid. Relations. It is superficial at its origin, like the upper part of the common carotid, and like it is merely separated from the skin by the platysma myoides ; but it then dips into the supra-hyoid region, below the digastricus, the stylo- hyoideiis, and the hypo-glossal nerve.* Higher up it is situated deeply in the parotid excavation, surrounded on all sides by the tissue of the parotid gland, which, on this account, cannot be entirely extirpated without w ounding the vessel. Collateral branches. These are six in number, and are arranged into three sets ; viz. an anterior set, consisting of the superior thyroid, the facial, and the lingual; a posterior, including the occipital and the auricular; and an internal set, formed by one vessel, the inferior, or ascending pharyngeal. The terminal branches are two in number, the superficial temporal and the internal maxillary. The Superior Thyroid Artery. The superior thyroid artery (d, fig. 204.) belongs both to the larynx and the thyroid gland. It is the first branch given off from the external carotid; it rather frequently arises opposite the bifurcation of the common carotid, which in this case would seem to divide into three branches. In some cases it arises directly from the common carotid; at other times it has been seen to come off by a common trunk with the lingual. It is always of considerable size, but varies in this respect, maintaining either a direct relation to the size of the thyroid body, or an inverse proportion to that of the other thyroid ar- teries. Direction. It is at first directed horizoataUy forwards and inwards; but it almost immediately bends, and proceeds vertically to the upper end of the corresponding lobe of the thyroid gland, in which it terminates. Relations. It is superficial at its origin, where it is covered only by the skin and the platysma; it then dips under the omo-hyoid, stemo-hyoid, and stemo-thyroid muscles, and it is also covered by the cervical fascia and the superior thyroid veins. This artery furnishes several collateral branches, viz. the superior laryngeal, the inferior laryngeal or crico-thyroid, and the sterno- mastoid branch.f The superior laryngeal branch. This (e) comes off from the thyroid at the point where the latter changes its direction ; sometimes it arises from the ex- ternal carotid. In certain cases it is so large that it may be regarded as formed by a bifurcation of the thyroid. In one case where it was wanting on the left side, I found it replaced by the right superior thyroid, which was almost double its usual size. This artery passes transversely inwards between the thyro-hyoid muscle and the membrane of the same name, which it per- forates along with the superior laryngeal nerve; having reached the cellular tissue behind this membrane, it divides into two branches, an ascending, or epiglottid branch, which passes upon the side, then in front of the epiglottis, and ramifies upon it; and a descending, or laryngeal branch, properly so called, which passes behind the thyroid cartilage, between it and the thyro-arytenoid muscle, and is distributed upon the muscles and mucous membrane of the * [It crosses over the styloid process, the stylo-glossus and pharyngeus muscles, and the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, which lie between it and thS internal carotid.] t [1 he first branch is usually a small one, namod the hyoid, which arises opposite the Krcat thTv"est/onh?/ppo^"e^rdT]the thyro-hyoid membrane, and anastomoses^with