^126 NEUROLOGY. with a remarkable twig from the deep auricular branch of the auricularis magnus from the cervical plexus*; after this, it divides into two branches an mding or auricular branch (m,fig. 299.), properly so called, which having nrst suppbed then perforates the posterior auricular muscle, turns round tht auricle, and termmates in the superior auricular muscle; and a horizontal or occipitaZ branch, (v, fig. 29,5.), which is larger and forms the continuation of the nerve; it passes immediately beneath the posterior auricular muscle, to which It gives some filaments, then runs exactly along the superior semi- circular line of the occipital bone, and terminates by giving off from its upper side a series of small filaments, which are lost in the occipital portion of the occipito-frontalis : they can be traced as far as the median Une, but none of them are distributed to the skin. The styloid branch arises from the back of the facial nerve, at its exit from the stylo-mastoid foramen, and enters the stylo-hyoid muscle, after having run along its upper border. The posterior mastoid or digastric branch often arises by a common trunk . with the preceding, enters the posterior belly of the digastric muscle, and sends oflF an anastomotic twig to the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. « The Terminal Branches of the Facial Nerve. The Temporo-facial Nerve. The temporo-facial nerve (g, fig. 285.) passes upwards and forwards in the substance of the parotid, forming, with the trunk of the facial nerve, an arch having its concavity turned upwards; it crosses the neck of the condyle of the lower jaw, and receives in this situation, by its deep surface, one or some- times two branches from the auriculo-temporal nerve, a branch of the inferior maxillary. This anastomotic branch establishes a very important connexion between the fifth and facial nerves. The temporo-facial nerve, which is flattened and plexiform where it is joined by the branch from the fifth, afterwards expands into a number of fila- ments which anastomose with each other, so as to form arches, from the con- vexity of which a number of diverging filaments of unequal size proceed like rays, and cover the whole space comprised between a vertical line drawn in front of the ear, and a horizontal line corresponding to the base of the nose. All these branches, which anastomose several times with each other, and form a succession of arches somewhat resembling those of the mesenteric arteries, may be divided into the temporal, the orbital, and the infra-orbital or buccal branches. The temporal branches ascend, cross over the zygomatic arch at right angles, and cover with their ramifications the whole of the temporal and frontal regions, anastomosing with filaments from the frontal branch of the first [from the orbital branch of the second], and from the auriculo-temporal branch of the third division of the fifth nerve. All these branches lie between the skin and the temporal aponeuroses: some of them supply the skin, but the majority are distributed to the frontal portion of the occipito-frontalis muscle, below which they are situated, and may be traced as far as the median line. The orbital branches may be divided into the superior palpebral, which are remarkably long, and pass beneath the orbicularis palpebrarum to ramify in that muscle and the corrugator supercilii. Several of these anastomose with twigs from the supra-orbital nerve ; the middle palpebral branches, which gain the outer angle of the eyelids, and are distributed between the upper and lower eyelids, and the superior palpebral branches, which are generally named the nudar branches ; they pass horizontally forwards, opposite to the lower part of * [It is also joined, according to Arnold, by a filament from the auricular branch of the pneu- mogastric (see note, p. 1132.).]