ANGEIOLOGY. SIS weight of a small column of mercury. They do uot appear to me to be stronger than the vems. They are much less extensible When the thoracic duct, or any other lymphatic vessel is punctured, it immediately collapses and forces out its fluid contents sometimes in a jet. Some admit the existence of muscular contractility in them. The vermicular motion caused by con- traction of their external coat is sufficient to explain the above-named fact.* The lymphatics are much more abundantly supplied -with valves than the vems. The valves (a o. Jig. 224.) are parabolic, and are arranged in pairs; they have an adherent border turned towards the com- mencement, and a free border towards the termination of the vessel; they are generally situated at very short intervals apart, as is shown by the knotted appearance of the vessels (see ^jr. 224.), and occasionally they present a circular or annular arrangement, from which they have been regarded as true sphincters. In general, these valves are strong enough to prevent the retrograde course of the lymph, and consequently of injections also. Nevertheless, Hunter inflated all the lacteals from the thoracic duct; Haller filled all the lymphatics of the lung from the upper part of the same canal, and Marchettis says that he has injected the whole of the l3rmphatics from the reservoir of Pecquet. The valves are extremely numerous in the lymphatics ; they have sometimes appeared to me to be wanting in the thoracic duct. Like those of the veins, the valves of the lymphatic vessels appear to be formed by a fold of the internal membrane The Lymphatic Glands. Sylvius was the first to distinguish the lymphatic glands imder the term conglobate glands, from the glands properly so called, which he named conglo- merate. Chaussier called these little bodies lymphatic ganglia, following Soum- merring, who first pointed out the analogy between them and the venous ganglia. The lymphatic glands are situated along the course of the lymphatic vessels, in reference to which they may be regarded as centres in which a certain number of the vessels open; those of the extremities are chiefly found at the upper part of the limbs on the aspect of flexion; those of the thorax, the abdomen, the head, and the neck are placed along the vertebral column and the great vessels ; they are found also in the substance of the mesentery, in the mediastina, at the roots of the lungs, &c. Their size varies from that of a millet seed to that of a large filbert. The smallest are situated in the epiploon; the largest at the roots of the lungs. They are often greatly enlarged by disease. They are generally of a reddish grey colour, excepting at the root of the lungs, when they are black. Their form is irregularly spheroidal; and they have been distinctly shown by Mal- pighi to have a cellular structure, f If we examine with a lens a lymphatic gland distended with fluid, we observe that it contains cells ; the same fact is clearly demonstrated by injecting it with mercury, which shows, moreover, that the cells communicate freely with each other. It is nevertheless doubtful whether all the cells communicate. The researches which I have made upon this subject appear to show that each lymphatic vessel is connected with a distinct • [The lacteal vessels have been seen to undergo a slow contractility on exposure to air, or to the action of any other stimulus ; hut there is no evidence of the muscularity of any part of the lymphatic system of mammalia. In certain reptilia and amphibia there are pulsatmg mus- cular sacs connected with the lymphatic system, which are called lymphattc hearts.i t See note, I'ufrik.