THE VENTRICLES OF THE SPINAL CORD. 9,35 Accordinff to my observations, each lamella is completely independent of the •id.^cent ones and pathological anatomy fully confirms this observation, by shoeing that one only may be altered or atrophied, whUst the others remain *'°i?Stction of the stream.of water be continued, these medullary lamelliE are decomposed into very deUcate juxtaposed filaments, which extend along the entirriength of the cord; they are all independent of each other, and are TTiProlv ponnected by cellular tissue and some vessels. . , , . The structure of the spinal cord is therefore filamentous or fasciculated ; its filaments are almost perfectly identical with those which constitute the proper substance of the nerves. Each filament in the cord traverses its entire length, as each nervous filament extends along the whole nerve. . , • , The very important inference to be drawn from these facts is the inde- pendence, not only of each lamella, but, I may venture to say, of each fila- ment. * Examination of the Spinal Cord hardened in Alcohol When deprived of its humidity by alcohol, the spinal marrow becomes very firm, extensible, and elastic. Its filamentous texture becomes very apparent, and the filaments themselves, which from the contraction of the cord are flexuous, may be separated from each other, either by the handle of the scalpel, or by slight traction. I have not seen that interlacement of the fibres of the cord, which is figured in the beautiful plates of Herbert Mayo, and which in my opinion is only apparent, and is produced by drawing the parts under examination in different directions. The Cavities or Ventricles of the Spinal Cord. Several anatomists are of opinion, that there is a canal in each half of the spinal cord, f Morgagni has slightly alluded to its existence, which he had not leisure to trace for a greater extent than about five fingers' breadth. J sacral nerves ; both of these observations refer to the anterior columns only, for in the two figures which he gives of them, the posterior columns appear to have no folds. Rolando made his observations upon spinal cords which had been macerated either in pure water, or in salt and water. * [The microscopic structure of the white and grey substances of the brain and spinal cord has been investigated by Fontana, Ehrenberg, Weber, Remalc, Valentin, and others. The fibres of the white matter consist of coherent threads of a soft semi-transparent tenacious substance, in- closed in an extremely delicate homogeneous or stuctureless sheath, which is very difficult of detection : these fibres are smaller than those of the nerves; they differ much in size, but each of them is of uniform diameter throughout; when submitted to the slightest pressure during examination, tliey have a remarkable tendency to become varicose or beaded, a property which is peculiar to them and to the fibres of the olfactory, optic, and auditory nerves, which also re- semble the fibres of the brain in other respects. The grey matter of the brain and spinal cord consists of large reddish grey globules, con- taining a nucleus and one or more nucleoli, and having spots of pigment upon them, in situations where the grey matter is darker than usual. Surrounding and attached to these globules there are minute jointed fibres, which are marked at intervals with granules (nuclei); by Ehrenberg these jointed fibres were considered to be of the same nature as the fibres of the white matter, differing from them only in size ; by Miiller and Schwann they are regarded as organic nervous fibres, resembling those found in such abundance in the sympathetic nerves and ganglia; whilst by Valentin and others they are supposed, not only in the brain but also in the ganglia and nerves, to be the filaments of a delicate cellular tissue. The mode in which the white fibres of the brain and spinal cord end in tlie grcv substance is not well made out; according to Valentin they separate to admit the grey globules between them, and then unite with one another so as to form loops. Tho substance of the brain and spinal cord, according to Vauquelin, contains 80 per cent, of water; its solid constituents consist of .ilbumen, stearine and elaine, phosphorus (15 percent.), osmazomo, some acids and salts, and sulphur.] t It is unnecessary to say, that the existence of the single central canal admitted by some authors, is quite irreconcilable with the real structure of tho cord. t Adversaria Anat. vol. 1. p. 17. Morgagni relates, that having separated the medulla oblon- gata from the rest of the spln.il cord by a horizontal section, he saw in the substance of the cord, and for the space of about live fingers' breadth {cl Jhrtasse cliam Ivngivs si qtiis tunc olimit habuissct uUcriorcm mcdutlam c vcrCcbris eximcndi), a cavity which admitted tlie end of tlio li»-