THE DEEP SPINAL VEINS. 807 The vertebral veins and the ascending cervical veins may therefore be said to represent the azygos veins in the cervical region. The Posterior Superficial Spinal Veins. The posterior superficial spinal veins commence in the skin, and in the muscles of the vertebral grooves : some of them closely accompany the arteries; for example, those that pass between the muscles of the vertebral grooves; the others have a peculiar distribution, and require a special description. These veins, which are called dorsi-spinales by MM. Dupuytren and Bres- chet form an exceedingly complicated network, the meshes of which surround the spinous processes and laminee, and the transverse and articular processes of all the vertebrae : these meshes are more numerous in proportion as the in- jection is more perfect. After a successful injection, we sometimes find along the summits of the spinous processes, especially in the dorsal and cervical regions, certain median lon- gitudinal veins, from which the interosseous branches proceed. These latter run forwards, on each side of, and in contact with, the interspinous ligaments. Having reached the base of the corresponding spinous process, they pass out- wards, opposite the intervals between the laminse of the vertebrse, as far as the bases of the transverse processes, and then divide into two branches ; one of these ascends, and anastomoses with the descending branch from the vein above; whilst the other branch descends, and anastomoses with the ascending branch of the vein below. It follows, therefore, that around the transverse processes and the laminae of the vertebrae there is a series of venous circles, which communicate opposite each intervertebral foramen with the veins contained in the interior of the spine. The posterior superficial spinal veins in the neck have a mnch more com- plicated arrangement, and indeed form a plexus. Moreover, we generally find, between the complexus and the semi-spinalis colli, two longitudinal veins, which appear to me to deserve a particular description, under the name of the posterior jugular veins. The posterior jugular veins commence between the occipital bone and the atlas, pass toituously out from the interval between these bones, run downwards and inwards, and opposite the spinous process of the axis the veins of the two sides anastomose by a transverse branch. They then change their direction, pass downwards and outwards, and having reached the lower part of the neck, turn forwards, between the seventh cervical vertebra and the first rib, and open into the back of the brachio-cephaJic vein behind the vertebral vein. The two posterior jugular veins are therefore arranged in the form of the letter X. The posterior jugular vein, which does not always exist, for its branches of origin sometimes remain separate, seems to be inversely proportioned to the vertebral vein, with which it communicates opposite each intertransverse space. It has appeared to me to communicate above with the deep occipital and the mastoid veins, with the veins situated in the spinal canal, and with the internal jugular vein. Throughout the whole of its course, it communicates freely, opposite each intervertebral foramen, with the veins contained in the interior of the spmal canal, and with the vertebral vein. The Deep Spinal or Intraspinai, Veins. The veins in the interior of the spine comprise the proper veins of the spinal cord, and the vems situated between the bones and the dura mater, which are subdivided into the anterior and the posterior longitudinal veins or plexuses, and the transverse veins or plexuses; the latter establishing a free communication be- tween all four of the longitudinal veins or plexuses, opposite each vertebra. before describing the veins situated between the bones and the dura mater 1 must state m a few words what is the arrangement of the proper arteries of