1048 NEUROLOGY. The superior subscapular nerve. This is a very small branch which arises immediately above the clavicle, and passes downwards and forwards to reach the upper border of the subscapularis, and then enters that muscle. The Branches given off opposite to the Clavicle, ^^''i These, which are named the thoracic branches*, are generally two in number, one anterior, the other posterior: they arise from the anterior part of the brachial plexus, opposite the subclavius muscle. The anterior branch, or nerve for the pectoralis major, which is the larger, passes downwards and forwards between the subclavius muscle and the subclavian vein, and divides into two branches—■ an external, or anastomotic, which sometimes arises directly from the brachial plexus, and forms a loop around the axillary artery, by anastomosing with the posterior thoracic branch; and an internal, which runs along the deep surface of the pectoralis major, and expands into a great number of remarkably long and slender filaments, which enter the muscle very obliquely, and may be traced as far as its sternal attachments. A very slender filament is constantly found running along the clavicle. The posterior thoracic branch, or nerve for the pectoralis minor, passes behind the axillary artery, below which it curves forwards to form, with the external branch of the anterior thoracic, the anastomotic loop of which I have already spoken. From this loop or arch, in forming which the nervous filaments are separated from each other, two sets of branches proceed: the one set runs be- tween the pectoralis major and minor, closely applied to the former muscle, which they then enter, diverging to its lowest part; the others pass beneath the pectoralis minor, and penetrate its deep surface ; some of them pass obliquely through this muscle and join the anterior thoracic branches in the pectoralis major. The Branches given off below the Clavicle. The axillary or circumflex nerve. This is no less remarkable for its great size, which has led some anatomists to regard it as a terminal branch of the brachial plexus, than for its reflected course: it comes off from the back of the plexus, behind the musculo-spiral nerve ; or rather, the circumflex and musculo-spiral nerves (e and ffig. 286.) appear to be the two divisions of atrunk formed by filaments from the five branches of the brachial plexus. Immediately after its origin, the circumflex nerve passes downwards and outwards ig,fig. 288.) in front of the subscapularis, which separates it from the shoulder joint, turns obliquely round the lower border of that muscle, round the back part of the articulation, and lastly round the surgical neck of the humerus, is then reflected upwards so as to describe a curve with the con- cavity turned in the same direction, and terminates by ramifying in the deltoid. ■ J V ^T. During this curved course, the circumflex nerve, accompanied by tiie poste- rior circumflex vessels, passes at first between the subscapularis and the teres major then below the teres minor, on the outer side of the long head of the triceps (t. e. next to the bone), and then lies in contact with the deep surface of the deltoid, against which it is held by a very dense layer of fascia. The relation of the circumflex nerve to the articulation explains the possible occurrence of laceration of this nerve in luxations of the humerus downwards. The collateral branches of the circumflex nerve are three in number. One branch almost always goes to the subscapularis. I have already said that the subscapular nerves might be regarded as branches of the circumflex. As it turns round the lower border of the subscapularis, the circumflex gives ofif a branch for the teres minor and the cutaneous branch of Vie shouMer. * The anterior thoracic nerves of those who name the nerve for the serratus mag.ui. the jiobterior thoracic. if^«vl fC/\,.ui^ ,