THE HEART. 653 ficial fibres enter the heart at its apex; and by Wolff and Gerdy, who state that the fibres of the heart are twisted into a whorl or vortex. From the turning back and the lateral twisting of the anterior and posterior bands it foUows, that, by removing the serous membrane which covers the aoex of the heart, we may, without injuring the fibres, penetrate mto its in- terior at two points, one to the right, and the other to the left of the anterior ^'^The deep reflected fibres having thus reached the interior of the ventricles, pass on the inner side of the proper fibres, and are arranged in three perfectly different modes: thus, some form simple loops with the superficial portion, others are arranged like the thread of a screw, or the figure 8, and others constitute the columnse carnese. » , , , The looped fibres, noticed by Winslow under the name of the bent or arched fibres, and so well described by Gerdy, form by their superficial and their deep portions the opposite walls of the ventricle : thus, the anterior superficial fibres constitute by their reflection the deep layer of the posterior wall, whilst the posterior superficial fibres, after being reflected, form the deep layer of the anterior wall. . The fibres, arranged like the thread of a screw, or like the figure 8, with its lower ring extremely narrow, have been accurately described and even figured by Lower, and were improperly rejected by Winslow, Senac, and others. The superficial portion of these fibres exactly resembles that of the looped fibres, and are always twisted after their reflection, so that their deep portion belongs to the same wall as their superficial. Thus, those fibres whose superficial portion belongs to the anterior waU of the ventricle, assist in forming the same wall by their deep portion. The columnce camece of the heart are formed by a certain number of fibres reflected in loops, or like the figure 8. Such is the arrangement of the muscular fibres of the ventricles.* The Muscular Fibres of the Auricles. The auricles, like the ventricles, have common and proper muscular fibres. There is only one fasciculus of common fibres; it occupies the anterior surface of both auricles, and extends transversely from the right to the left auricula. The proper fibres constitute a very thin muscular layer for each auricle; they all commence and terminate at the corresponding ventricular zone. The proper fibres of the left auricle. The muscular layer in this auricle is continuous and uniform and not areolar. It consists of circular fibres, which occupy the neighbourhood of the auriculo-ventricular orifice, and all the an- terior region of the auricle; and of oblique fibres, also arising from the au- riculo-ventricular orifice, and divided into several very distinct loops. One circular loop passes between the auricula and the left pulmonary veins; a second forms a vertical zone, interposed between the right and left pulmonary veins; it is very broad, and occupies the entire interval between the veins of the right and left side; a third and a fourth, very small, are interposed be- tween the two pulmonary veins of each side. These fasciculi, by changes in their direction, become adapted to the circular form of the orifices, and con- stitute true sphincters. It would appear that, besides these bundles, there are some proper circular fibres around each orifice. The proper fibres of the right auricle. In the right auricle the fleshy fibres do not form a continuous layer. This auricle may be regarded as consisting 1* The arrangement descrihed above is common to both ventricles. In the right ventricle almost all the reHccted fibres enter into the columnae carnca;. There is no Interlacing, or mdiguation ot the fleshy fibres along the anterior and posterior furrows, as has been stated : stiir less do we find a raphf in the situation of these furrows. The splitting and separation 01 the muscular fibres, caused by the entrance of the bloodvessels opposite the furrows, and the condensation of the fibres between the openings for the vessels, have occasioned these