NEUROLOGY. 1112 The internal filament, or anterior nerve of the septum nasi (a, fig. 297.), enters the fibro-mucons membrane upon the anterior part of the septum, and divides into several very slender filaments which may be traced below the middle of the septum. The external filament, or nerve of the external wall of the nasal fossa (mfig. 299.), runs along the anterior border of the septum, and divides into two terminal filaments, one of which passes upon the fore part of the external wall of the nasal fossa, and ramifies upon the turbinated bones; whilst the other and larger filament (e; naso-lobaire, Chauss.) follows the original course of the nerve, and passes behind the nasal bone, which is marked with a groove and frequently even by a canal for the reception of the nerve; from this latter filament several twigs proceed, which perforate the nasal bone more or less obliquely, and are distributed to the skin of the nose ; having reached the lower border of the nasal bone, it passes forwards, increasing in size, through the fibrous tissue which ■ unites the bone to the lateral cartilage of the nose, and then ramifies in the skin covering the ala and lobe of the nose, where I have seen it anastomose with the facial nerve. Whilst within the cavity of the cranium the internal nasal nerve lies be- neath the dura mater, and is perfectly distinct from the olfactory nerve, with which it never anastomoses. The Ophthalmic Ganglion and its Branches.* Dissection. The ophthalmic ganglion may be exposed in several ways, for example, either in dissecting the branch given by the common motor nerve to the inferior oblique muscle, or directly by removing the adipose tissue be- tween the external rectus and the optic nerve. The long branch from the nasal nerve to the ophthalmic ganglion and the ciliary nerves can also be ex- posed with the greatest ease. The ophthalmic or ciliary ganglion (behind ?, ^jr. 298.) is a small, grey- ish, and flattened enlargement, of a lenticular form (the lenticular ganglion), applied to the outer side of the optic nerve, and situated about two or three lines from the optic foramen, in the midst of a great quantity of adipose tissue, which renders its dissection difficult. It varies much in size, and sometimes consists of a simple miliary enlargement, which forms a point of origin and termination for a certain number of nerves. For the convenience of de- scription, this ganglion is said to have four angles, two posterior and two an- terior ; by its posterior and superior angle it receives a long slender branch {its long root), given off from the nasal nerve whilst still contained within the ca- vernous sinus. Not unfrequently a second long but extremely slender root is furnished by the nasal nerve to the ophthalmic ganglion. By its posterior and inferior angle it receives a short thick branch, which comes from the inferior division of the common motor nerve (its short root). From its two anterior angles it gives off two small bundles of nerves, named the ciliary nerves (?, fig. 298.; X, fig. 301.). Lastly, the ophthalmic ganglion has a ganglionic or soft root, or rather a communicating filament between this ganglion and the superior cer- vical ganglion of the sympathetic; this soft root arises from the cavernous plexus, and passes sometimes to the long or nasal root of the ophthahnic ganglion, and sometimes to the ophthalmic ganglion itself. . ,. , The ciliary nerves are remarkable for their tortuous course, m which respect thev resemble the ciUary arteries ; and also for being coUected mto two bun- dles, the one superior, which is generally composed of four filaments, and the other inferior composed of five or six The ciliary nerves do not anas- tomose before they reach the globe of the eye, with the exception, however, of the ciliary nerve which is derived directly from the nasal nerve and which anastomoses with an inferior ciliary nerve from the ophthalmic ganglion. . The connexions of the ophthalmic ganglion with the nasal nerve, as well as with the com- mon motor nerve, have induced ms to describe it here.