NEUROLOGY. 1066 Summary of the Dorsal or Intercostal Nerves. These nerves are distributed to the parietes both of the thorax and the ab- domen, which in all respects may be regarded as constituting a single cavity the thoracico-abdominal. The muscular and cutaneous thoracic branches from the brachial plexus, some small branches derived from the lumbar plexus, and the posterior spinal branches of the dorsal nerves, complete the nervous system of the thoracic and abdominal parietes. The dorsal nerves are divided into muscular nerves, for the muscles of the thoracico-abdominal parietes and for the muscles which lie upon them, and into cutaneous nerves. To obtain a good idea of the latter they should all be displayed in the same preparation. Several rows of parallel cutaneous filaments will then be seen, in the following order, proceeding from before backwards. The anterior perforating or cutaneous nerves, which are extremely small, emerge at the sides of the sternum and of the linea alba, and are reflected forwards. The perforating or cutaneous nerves, which might be called middle, divide into one set of branches which run parallel to each other forwards towards the sternum, and another set, also parallel, which run backwards towards the ver- tebral column. We have elsewhere stated that other posterior cutaneous branches are given ofiF from the posterior branches of the dorsal nerves. They are parallel and run outwards, and may be traced as far as on a level with the axiUa. THE ANTERIOR BRANCHES OF THE LUMBAR NERVES. Enumeration. — The Lumbar Plexus — Collateral branches, abdominal and inguinal.— Terminal branches—the obturator nerve — the crural nerve and its branches, viz. the musculo-cutaneous — the accessory of the internal saphe- nous — the branch to the sheath of the vessels — the muscular branches — the internal saphenous. Dissection. In order to see these nerves at their exit from the intervertebral foramina, and also to obtain a view of the lumbar plexus, it is necessary care- fully to divide the psoas muscle, in which they are situated; the branches which emerge from the plexus must be dissected with the greatest care as they are passing under the femoral arch and then to their final distribution. The anterior branches of the lumbar nerves (21 to 25, fig. 268.) are five in number, and are distinguished as the first, second, third, fourth, and fifth: they gradually increase in size from the first to the fifth, and form a con- tinuation of the series of anterior branches of the dorsal nerves: after having given off one or two branches to the lumbar ganglia (m) of the sympathetic, and some branches to the psoas muscle, they end by anastomosing so as to form the lumbar plexus (Z). The anterior branch of the first lumbar nerve (1 I, fig. 290.) is the smallest of all, and is almost equal in size to the anterior branch of the twelfth dorsal nerve ; immediately after emerging from the intervertebral foramen it divides into three unequal branches; two of these (a and above b) are external and oblique, and constitute the abdominal branches (ilio-scrotal nerves of some authors) ; the third is internal, vertical, and often very small; it is the anas- tomotic branch which joins the second nerve. The anterior branch of the second lumbar nerve is at least twice as large as with both the twelfth dorsal and the first lumbar nerves ; it only communicated with the first lumbar nerve by a very small filament; it gave off a deep perforating or cutaneous •"■f"^" the gluteal region, and also an ilio-scrotal branch. In this subject there were only four lumbar nerves.