1045 THE BRACHIAL PLEXUS. and the diaphragm, and enter the muscle from its upper surface; others pass throuffh the diaphragm, run between it and the peritoneum, and enter the fleshy fibres from below ; they may be traced as far as the costal attachments of the muscle The right phrenic nerve terminates by a transverse branch which passes behind the vena cava, and anastomoses with certain transverse branches of the left phrenic, before it enters the pillars of the diaphragm m which it terminates. I have never seen any filament of the phrenic nerve pass either to the oesophagus or to the solar plexus. The Posterior Deep Cervical Branches. These are:—an anastomotic branch (v, fig. 298.) from the cervical plexus to the spinal accessory nerve of Willis (0; it is of considerable size; it comes off from the second nerve at the same point as the external occipital nerve, and anastomoses at an acute angle with the spinal accessory, between the cervical fasciculi of the splenius and the sterno-mastoid. Also, a branch for the trapezius, which arises from the third nerve, passes ob- liquely downwards and backwards to the deep surface of the muscle, and anas- tomoses with the spinal accessory of Willis, which it reinforces, and with which it may be traced as far as the lower angle of the muscle. Lastly, the branches for the levator anguli scapula and the rhomboideus; these are rather small branches, which arise from the back part of the third and fouth cervical nerves, as they emerge from between the transverse processes of the vertebrae, pass obliquely downwards and backwards, turn round the sca- lenus posticus in contact with it, and are distributed to the levator anguli sca- pulae and the upper part of the rhomboideus. The same branches appear to supply both muscles. The Anterior Branches of the Fifth, Sixth, Seventh, and Eighth Cervical and First Dorsal Nerves. These branches are remarkable for their size, in which respect they surpass the preceding, and are almost all equal. On emerging from the intervertebral foramina, they come into relation with the two scaleni muscles, which are se- parated from each other and sometimes are perforated by them ; they give off some very slender filaments to these muscles, and, converging, anastomose together so as to form the brachial plexus, from which all the nerves of the upper extremity are derived. The Brachial Plexus. The brachial plexus (h, fig. 268.) extends obliquely from the lateral and inferior part of the neck to the cavity of the axilla, or rather to the inner side of the head of the humerus, where it terminates by dividing into the nerves of the upper extremity; it is formed in the following manner: — The fifth and sixth cervical nerves (5, 6, fig. 286.) unite at a short distance from the scaleni, and the cord thus formed passes very obliquely downwards and outwards, and then bifurcates. Again, the eighth cervical (8) and the first dorsal (1) nerves unite im- mediately after converging from the scaleni, and sometimes even between those muscles; and the common cord passes abnost horizontally outwards, and bifur- cates near the head of the humerus. Between these two anastomotic cords is the seventh cervical nerve (7), which pursues a much longer course than the others, and bifurcates on a level with the clavicle ; the upper branch of its bifurcation joins the lower branch of the bifurcation of the first named cord, and its lower branch unites with the upper branch of the second named cord. From these several bifurcations and subsequent anastomoses, all of wliich' D D 4