894 NEUROLOGY. Fig. 255. I have already stated that a fihrous-looking cord, named the stapedius muscle emerges from the canal of the pyramid. It is not yet known what structures are transmitted through the divisions of this canal. Below the fenestra ovalis, and behind the promontory, is situated the fenestra rotunda is,figs. 254, 255.) ; it is placed at the bottom of a funnel-shaped de- pression, which was well described by M. Ribes as the fossa of the fenestra rotunda, at the bottom of which is found a partly membranous and partly osseous lamina, which is the commencement of the spiral septum of the cochlea. In a dry bone, which has been previously macerated, the membranous part being destroyed, the fossa of the fenestra rotunda communicates with the vestibule. Below this compound lamina, i. e. at the lower part of the fossa just described, is found the fenestra rotunda (s,fig. 257.) properly so called, which leads into the tympanic scala of the cochlea (/); whence the term cochlear orifice of the tym- panum is applied to the fenestra rotunda, in contradistinction to the term vesti- bular orifice, which is given to the fenestra ovalis. The fenestra rotunda is closed, in the fresh state, by a membrane called the secondary viembrana iympani, which is said to be composed of three layers—a middle layer, an external or tympanic, and an internal or cochlear layer. The two last-named are mucous membranes.* Under the pyramid, and behind the fenestra rotunda, is seen a deep fossa, the sub-pyramidal fossa (v, fig. 254.), remarkable for its constancy, and pierced by several foramina at the bottom. Upon the internal wall of the tympanum, in front of the fenestra ovalis, somewhat above the transverse diameter of that opening, and under the promi- nence of the aqueduct of Fallopius, is the internal orifice (n,figs. 254, 255.) of the canal (m) for the internal muscle of the malleus, or tensor tympani muscle. This orifice is wide and cup-shaped, and is supported by a hollow eminence (x, fig. 254.), which is itself sustained by several ridges; so that there is the greatest ana- logy between it and the hollow projection constituting the pyramid. Both of them transmit a tendon. One is situated in front, and the other behind the fenestra ovalis. M. Huguier, who has paid much attention to this subject, has shown that the cochleariform process of anatomi.its {n,fig. 255.) is nothing more than the remnant of the hollow projection (_x,fig. 254.) just described, one half of which is very thin and fragile, and is sometimes destroyed by long-continued maceration. The so-called cochleariform process therefore is merely the reflected canal for the internal muscle of the malleus. The circumference of the tympanum. We shall examine this circumference above, below, in front, and behind. Above, the tympanum corresponds to the projection formed on the anterior part of the base of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. In it there is formed a recess, which may be named the recess of the tympanum, and which is intended for the reception of the head of the malleus il,fig. 255.), and the bodv and posterior ramus of the incus (2). It is thin and spongy, and is se- parated from the squamous portion of the temporal bone by a suture, which * rThe internal or cochlear layer is merely a part of the comnion lining membrane of the labyrinth, and is most probably nflbroserous membrane, see p. 90,.] Natural size. (Section of the tympanum.)