THE PELVIC VEINS IN THE MALE. 797 iliac artery. It follows, therefore, that the left common iliac vein is covered, and may be compressed by both common iliac arteries, whilst the right com- mon iliac vein cannot be compressed by either of them, and probably this is partly the reason why anasarca of the left lower extremity is more common than in the right extremity in atonic diseases. The rio-ht common iliac vein receives no collateral branch; the left common iliac (/i,/I;. 223.) is joined by the middle sacral vein (/i). The viiddle sacral vein is situated in the median line, and its size depends upon that of the artery of the same name ; it belongs to the rachidian veins, with which it will be described. The Internal Iliac Vein. The internal iliac or hypogastric vein exactly represents the internal iliac ar- tery, on the inner side of which it is situated, Separated from it, however, by a very thin fibrous layer, which holds it down against the walls of the pelvis. The internal Uiac vein receives the venae comites of the branches of the internal iliac artery, the umbilical arteries in the foetus alone being excepted ; for their satellite vein, the umbilical vein, which is also peculiar to the foetus, terminates in the hepatic portion of the vena portae, as we have already seen. The internal Uiac vein, therefore, receives the blood returned from the pa- rietes of the pelvis, from the organs contained within the cavity of the pelvis, and from the external genitals. There are always two veins for each artery ; but the two unite into a single vein at their point of termination in the prin- cipal trunk. The veins belonging to the parietes of the pelvis, viz. the gluteal, obturator, and sciatic veins, are arranged precisely like the corresponding artei'ies. The ilio-lumbar and lateral sacral veins {i, fig. 223.) form part of the rachidian system, which will be specially described. The veins belonging to the genito-urinary organs present a plexiform arrangement both in their trunks and in their roots, which deserves particular attention. Some of the venous plexuses of the pelvis are found both in the male and female, as the hcEmorrhoidal, whilst some are peculiar to one or the other sex, as the vesico-prostatic and the plexuses of the penis to the male, and the va- ginal and uterine plexuses to the female. J7ie Hcemorrhoidal Veins and Plexuses. The hcBmorrhoidal veins and plexus form a venous network, surrounding the lower end of the rectum. They are formed by the superior hcemorrhoidal veins, which form the commencement of the inferior mesenteric, and by the middle and inferior hamorrhoidal veins, which are branches of the internal iliac. We ought to notice in particular the submucous venous network near the anus. The plexus formed by it is analogous to that found in all other mucous mem- branes ; its vessels are liable to become varicose, a condition which constitutes the greater number of haemorrhoidal tumours The Pelvic Veins and Plexuses in the Male. Preparation. Introduce one injection-pipe into the corpus cavernosum, and another into the glans penis, and then push an injection simultaneously into both of them, and also into the crural vein. The superficial scrotal veins terminate partly in the superficial veins of the perinfeum, and partly in the external pudic branches of the femoral vein ; they communicate with the superficial veins of the under surface of the penis. The vesical veins, or vesico-prostatic plexus. The prostate gland and the neck of the bladder are covered by a very complicated plexus of veins, which be-