'084 NEUROLOGY. magnus receives most of its nerves from the obturator nerve. All the nre ceding branches arise from the upper part of the sciatic nerve, opposite to the quadratus femoris, and often by a common trunk. A. nerve for the short head of the biceps sometimes arises at the same height as the preceding, but is most commonly given off from the sciatic nerve at the middle of the thigh. When the sciatic nerve divides prematurely, the branch we are now describing comes from the external popliteal. This nerve enters the upper extremity of the muscle, expanding into diverging filaments. An articular nerve of the knee, which often arises by a common trunk with the preceding, and is not unfrequently given off from the external popliteal; it passes vertically downwards in front of the great sciatic nerve, through some adipose tissue, to gain the outer side of the joint; having arrived above the ex- ternal condyle, it turns and divides into several filaments, which perforate the fibrous tissue of the joint, and are distributed to the articular adipose tissue, where they are scattered, some above, others below, and others on the outer side of the patella.* The Extemal Popliteal Sciatic or Peroneal Nerve. T)ie external popliteal sciatic, external popliteal, or peroneal nerve {i,fig. 293.), the external terminal branch of the great sciatic, is intended for all the muscles of the anterior and external region of the leg, and for the skin on the leg and on the dorsum of the foot. It is scarcely half the size of the internal popliteal; it runs obliquely downwards and outwards, behind the external condyle of the femur through the popliteal space, and is placed nearer to the surface than the internal popliteal nerve, which is lodged in the intercondyloid fossa; it then crosses obliquely over the origin of the outer head of the gastrocnemius, passes behind the head of the fibula, fi-om which it is separated by the origin of the soleus, turns horizontally upon the neck of that bone (at v), between it and the peroneus longus, and expands into four branches, two superior or re- current for the tibialis anticus, and two inferior and larger, which form the true terminations of the nerve. Collateral Branches. During this course, the external popliteal nerve gives off two superficial col- lateral nerves: a saphenous nerve, which we shall call the peroneal saphenous to distinguish it from the tibial saphenous, and the peroneal cutaneous branch. The Peroneal Saphenous Nerve. The peroneal saphenous nerve (n) presents many varieties in different sub- jects, both in regard to its size and origin. It is generally smaller than the tibial saphenous (/), of which it may be regarded as an accessory; it arises in the popliteal space, descends vertically beneath the fascia, between the external and internal popliteal nerves, perforates the fascia, opposite to the middle of the leg, to join the external saphenous vein, with which it runs along the tendo Achillis, and terminates upon the outer side of the os calcis. During this course, it gives off several cutaneous filaments and a communicating branch to the tibial saphenous nerve: this branch is of considerable size, and comes off whilst the nerve is still beneath the fascia. Having become very slender after giving these branches, the peroneal saphenous nerve subdivides, opposite to the lower part of the tendo Achillis, and upon the outer side of the os calcis, into several calcaneal branches, one of which turns obliquely round the posterior surface of the os calcis, whilst the others descend vertically, are reflected upon the under surface of that bone, and are distributed to the skin of the heel. Not unfrequently the peroneal saphenous nerve gives off" a malleolar branch, which passes between the external malleolus and the skin, and anastomoses in front • See uote, p. 1088.