1056 NEUROLOGY. metacarpo-phalangal articulations. Like the vessels which run along their outer side, these nerves occupy the borders of the palmar aspect of the fingers, one on each side of the tendinous groove. Summary. From what has been stated, it follows, then, that the median nerve gives off no branch in the arm* ; that in the fore-arm, it gives no nerve to the skin, but supplies all the muscles of the anterior region, excepting the flexor carpi ulnaris and the inner half of the flexor profundus, which we shall see are supplied by the ulnar; and lastly, that, in the hand, it supplies the cutaneous nerves of the palm, the external and internal collateral nerves of the thumb, index finger, and middle fingers, and the external collateral nerve of the ring finger, and also the muscular nerves of the ball of the thumb and the nerves of the two outer lumbricales, and sometimes that of the third lumbricalis. The Ulnar Nerve. The uZnar nerve (d,^^. 286.) a little smaller than the preceding, behind which it is situated, arises by a trunk which is common to it, to the internal root of the median nerve (c), and to the internal cutaneous nerve {g) ; it passes vertically downwards behind, and at first in contact with the median, but soon leaves that nerve, and runs somewhat backwards (J", fig. 288.), whilst the median is directed forwards and outwards ; it perforates the upper fibres of the internal head of the triceps and enters the sheath of that muscle behind the internal intermuscular septum. It thus gains the groove between the inner condyle of the humerus and the olecranon, passes between the two origins of the flexor carpi ulnaris, and is reflected from behind forwards in this groove, and then upon the inner side of the coronoid process : having thus reached the anterior aspect of the fore-arm, it passes vertically downwards (/) between the flexor carpi ulnaris and the flexor profundus, and gains the palm of the hand (s), where it divides into its terminal branches. As with the median nerve, we shall examine the ulnar in succession in the arm, the fore-arm, and the hand. Jn tlie Arm. The most important relation of this nerve (/) in the arm is that at its upper part with the median nerve and brachial artery. It runs along the inner side of the artery, whilst the median nerve is situated in front of the vessel, or rather the artery is situated between the median and ulnar nerves, so that it may be exposed immediately below the axilla, by separating these two nerves. The ulnar nerve gives off no branch in the arm; the error of those who have stated the contrary has arisen from the fact that the branch given from the musculo-spiral nerve to the internal portion of the triceps lies in contact with the ulnar nerve for a great part of its extent, so that it would seem at first sight to come off from it. TTie Fore-arm. The ulnar nerve in the fore-arm (/) is at first covered by the fleshy belly of the flexor carpi ulnaris, which separates it from the skin, it becomes sub- aponeurotic below, where the fleshy fibres of that muscle cease, and is found between the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris on its inner side, and those of the flexor sublimis on its outer side. Its relation with the ulnar artery is remarkable. This vessel describes a curve so as to reach the outer or radial side of the nerve ; but the nerve and artery are in contoct in the lower third only of the fore-arm. The branches of this nerve in the fore-arm ai-e somewhat numerous. Be- tween the internal condyle and the olecranon, the ulnar nerve gives several very delicate articular filaments which pass into the elbow joint; it also gives off branches for the Jlex-or carpi ulnaris, one of which is very large and may be traced as far as the lower part of the fleshy belly of the muscle After its reflection, the ulnar nerve gives a branch to the.flexor prof,m,l„. » See note, p. lOriS.