845 THE APPENDAGES OF THE SKIN. Fig. 228. I aeree with Chaussier that we ought altogether to reject the corpus mu- cosum, in whatever sense that term may be understood ; and I believe there are eood -rounds for supposing that the different layers described as forming this body belong, in reaUty, some to the papiUse, and others to the epidermis.* Appendages of the Skin. Under this title may be included the sebaceous follicles and the homy growths, viz. the nails and hairs. _ _ , • , The sebaceous follicles. The skin contains within its substance certain seba- ceous follicles (i i,fig. 228.) ; these consist of small pouches, or bags, about the size of a millet seed, which form projections be- neath the epidermis, but are lodged in the substance of the dermis, and open externally by very small orifices, which are visible under a lens, and, in some persons, even to the naked eye. From these orifices an unc- tuous matter is constantly poured out upon the surface of the skin, and assists in pre- serving its pliability; in some individuals this unctuous matter may be expressed from the follicles upon the alae of the nose, in masses which look like small worms. These sebaceous follicles are somewhat analogous to the follicles of the mucous membranes ; they are not found in the palms of the hands and soles of the feet; but, in all probability, they exist in every part of the body : they are especially observed in the axilla, on the hairy scalp, and around the margins of the anus and vulva, and the openings of the nose and mouth : they are very much developed in the new-bom infant. The sebaceous follicles appear to me to have a glandular structure ; and this is particularly evident in those of the axiUa, the organisation of which seems to me to be more complex than that of those found in other parts. The sup- position that these follicles are formed by the reflection of a thin portion of the skin is altogether fanciful.f llie nails and the hair. In man the homy growths of the skin are less de- veloped than in any animal exposed to similar atmospheric conditions ; and in man also we find the highest developement of the sense of touch. The nails of the human subject are hard, yet flexible and elastic, semi- transparent scales, and present the appearance of laminae of horn: they are situated upon the dorsal surface of the last phalanges, which are therefore called the ungual phalanges; and they appear rather to be intended for the support, and protection of the pulpy extremities of the fingers, than as weapons of attack, or instruments of defence and prehension. In a state of civilisation it is customary, therefore, to cut off that part of the nail which projects beyond the end of the finger. The ingenuity of man enables him to provide himself with offensive weapons amply sufficient to compensate for the weakness of those provided by nature, which, indeed, are quite rudimentary in him, and Section of skin from the head, magnified 14 times. * Sfie note, p. 843. 1 IS^^^ sebaceous glands (it, fig. 228.) are multilocular follicles ; their ducts are lined by epi- demic corpuscules and open upon the surface of the skin in parts without hairs ; where'ha rs IIT' ""'y,"P^" .'"'^I.^KlH" t° <=ach of whicli two sebaceous glands (.-i) are f, ""Ju''■^ 1^'^have been found around the orifices of the ducts of these glands : their secretion is albuminous as well as fatty.]