942 NEUROLOGY. gagni, Ilaller, Vic d'Azyr, Sabatier, Boyer, Cuvier, Chaussier, and Rolando » As to Gall and Spurzheim, they do not seem to have had a decided opinion upon this point; for, after having appeared to admit the decussation in some passages of their work, they say elsewhere that the small cords of the pyra- mids do not form a true decussation, but merely intersect and pass over each other obliquely. In order to settle the question of decussation, I submitted the medulla oblongata to the action of a jet of water upon both its anterior and posterior surfaces ; and by then examining it from behind forwards I was able to ascer- tain that the right and left pyramidal bundles do most evidently decussate (a, fig. 273.) ; that this decussation is effected, not only from side to side, but also from before backwards {b,fig. 274.) ; that the left pyramidal bundle (6) passes downwards to the right side and backwards (w), traverses the grey matter of the cord, and becomes continuous with the right lateral column of the cord, and vice versa ; and, lastly, that the anterior pyramids are not in the slightest degree continuous with the anterior columns of the spinal cord. The olivary bodies. When the anterior pyramids are removed, it is seen that the olivary bodies {d,figs. 273, 274.) do not consist merely of the pro- minent masses which project beyond and on the outer side of the anterior pyramids, but that they extend inwards to the median line behind the pyra- mids, which are received in a slight concavity formed by the anterior surfaces of the olivary bodies {fig. 269.C ). This arrangement is very evident without any preparation in anencephalous infants, or in such as are born with very imperfectly developed brains: the situation of the atrophied pyramids is then occupied by two tracts of grey matter, and the olivary bodies, more developed than usual, reach as far as the median line. When a jet of water is directed against the median line between the olivary bodies, it encounters a white and very dense tissue, upon which it produces little effect, t As soon as this tissue has been removed with the knife, the water insinuates itself into the substance of the olivary bodies, which, as we have seen, are open towards the inner side; each olivary body is then spread out, its anterior half is turned outwards, and assumes the appearance of a dense yellowish layer folded upon itself, like a leaf whilst within its bud ; after some white lamellas are removed by the action of the water, the posterior half is exposed, and dis- plays a similar appearance to that of the anterior half. Rolando compares the arrangement of this yellow folded layer, or corpus dentatum of the olivary body, to a flattened purse {borsa appiatlita), the neck of which is open, some- what constricted, and directed backwards and towards the median line. GaU and Spurzheim regarded the olivary bodies as ganglia, but these ana- tomists appear to me to have singularly misapplied the term ganglion, which they have given to such dissimilar parts as the olivary bodies, the corpora striata, and the tuber annulare. Lastly, by directing the stream of water against the median line, and by assisting its action by gently drawing the parts asunder, the medulla oblongata becomes divided into two perfectly similar halves, excepting opposite the de- cussation. A beautiful preparation may thus be made exhibiting the separa- * Of all who have denied the reality of the decussation, Rolando appears to me to have op- posed the doctrine with the greatest force. He examined the subject with the greatest atten- tion • he made horizontal sections of the medulla oblongata, but he could never see any thing more than the alternate origin of the fasciculi which constitute the anterior pyramids; he could never find that the bundles of the right side passed over to the left, and vice vcrsA. In renlv to the objection, that without admitting the decussation it is impossible to account for the cross effects of injuries or diseases of the brain, he states that these are explained by tli« timate union between the optic thalarai and tubercula quadrigemina of tlie two sides, and be- tween the two halves of the pons Varolii and medulla oblongata. Tlie error of Rolando evi- dently arose from his attaching such exclusive importance to sections, as a means of detcrmmmg ^^fhrvrfrVqueXSlerto"& the white medullary substance which is situ..ted be tween the olivary bodies, and passes into each of them, as a transverse commissure, which might be called the commissure of the olivary bodies.