878 NEUROLOGY. donna, either applied topically, or taken internally, in producing dilatation of the pupil, IS one of the most curious facts concerning the iris. The direct action of the rays of light upon the iris has no influence upon the size of the pupil, the dimensions of which are altered eiUher by the action of light upon the retina, or in consequence of a peculiar condition of the optic nerve or of the brain. TTie Pigment of the Eye. It has been stated that the external surface of the choroid and the internal surface of the sclerotic are coloured by a very thin layer of pigment; and also that the internal surface of the choroid is covered with a thicker layer, which is itself thickest on the fore part of that surface, near the ciliary body, between the great ciliary processes, and behind the iris. By means of this pigment the interior of the eye is converted into a true dark chamber. Still it may be asked, why the pigment is less abundant behind than in front. The choroid pigment is not black, but of a very dark brown colour, like bistre, in this respect resembling the pigment of the skin of the negro; it consists of molecules or globules insoluble in water. The pigment of the choroid of the iris is wanting in albinoes, as well as the cutaneous pigment. Both have the same chemical composition.* In some animals the pigment of the eye has a metallic lustre, and an iri- descent aspect in a great part of its extent. The Retina. The retina (r, Jigs. 241. 245.), counting from without inwards, is the third membrane of the eye ; it is the immediate seat of vision, and is an essentially nervous membrane, situated within the choroid and the sclerotic. Its external surface (r,fig. 245.) corresponds to the choroid, from which it is separated by the pigment, which, in eyes that have undergone slight decomposition, forms an irregular layer upon it, like a web. Dr. Jacob (JPhihsoph. Trans. 1819) has described a serous membrane between the retina and the choroid, in the cavity of which a dropsical effusion may occur, and constitute what is called posterior staphyloma of the eye. M. Weber believes that this membrane is prolonged forwards to the circumference of the crystalline lens, and is then reflected over the posterior surface of the iris, where it becomes continuous with the membrane of the aqueous humour. I have not succeeded in de- monstrating the membrane of Jacob, t The internal surface (r, fig, 246.) of the retina is applied to the vitreous body, but does not adhere in the slightest degree to it. The point at which the retina terminates in front is still regarded by most anatomists as undetermined. Several, with the older authors, describe it as extending to the circumference of the crystalline lens. Some entertain a modification of this opinion, believing that an extremely thin membrane is given off from the rim (r' r',fig. 241.) in which the retina seems to terminate, and that this membrane advances upon the inner surface of the ciliary body to the front of the capsule of the crystalline lens, to which it is attached. M. Duges, in an excellent work upon the comparative anatomy of the organ of circumstances; but it is by no means certain tli.it the adjustment of tlie eye to objects at dif- ferent distances depends on these alterations in the condition of the iris.] * [The pigment of the eye consists of nucleated cells containing the pigment granules; on the inner surface of the choroid these cells are flattened and hexagonal, and their sides fit ac- curately together, so as te present an appearance like mosaic work ; on the back of the iris the cells are irregularly rounded. In albinoes the cells contain no coloured granules.] t [If the posterior part of the sclerotic and choroid be carefully removed from a fresh eye (leaving the optic nerve untouched), and the eye be then macerated a few hours in water, por- tions of Jacob's membrane will either separate, or they can easily be separated from the outer surface of the retina.]