775 THE SUPEUIOR LONGITUDINAL SINUS. cates near its posterior extremity ; sometimes it is directly continuous with the right lateral sinus. _ , v, x- * i, j The internal surface of this sinus is remarkahle for the transverse bands foimd in it, especially along its inferior angle. These bands consist of fibrous tissue covered by the lining membrane of the sinus; and they conceal the orifices of the veins which open into it; in some points they are so numerous as to form an areolar tissue. Lastly, we almost always find on the internal surface of the sinus some small white projecting bodies, the glandula Pac- chioiii. „ The following veins open into the superior longitudinal sinus: sonie trom the internal or flat surface of each cerebral hemisphere, called the internal cerebral veins; others from the upper half of the convex surface of the brain, or the external cerebral; and lastly several veins from the dura mater and the bones of the cranium. The internal cerebral veins, three or four in number on each side, return the blood from all the convolutions of the flat surface of the corresponding hemi- sphere of the brain, and enter the superior cerebral veins at the point where these are applied to the surface of the falx. The superior cerebral veins vary in number, but are generally seven or eight on each side. The anterior of these veins are very small; the posterior are much larger. There is almost always one of greater size than the rest, which may be named the great superior cerebral vein: it appears to commence in and run along the fissure of Sylvius, is then prolonged obliquely backwards, and turning forwards upon the convex surface of the brain, so as to describe a curve having its concavity directed forwards, it becomes applied to the falx cerebri, and opens into the longitudinal sinus, after having run for about one inch in the substance of its walls. During its course this vein receives a great number of branches, some anterior and others posterior, which, al- though corresponding to the arteries in their origin and in a part of their course, are completely separated from those vessels at their termination. The common trunks pass inwards towards the great median fissure of the brain; near the sinus they become attached to the dura mater, being held down by the arachnoid membrane, which is reflected from the brain upon the dura mater; they then change their direction, turn forwards in the substance of the falx cerebri, beneath a very thin layer of the dura mater, and after a course of from six to ten lines in length, terminate in the longitudinal sinus by one or more openings. The manner in which the cerebral veins open into the sinus varies: for some there are lateral openings, as if made by a punch; others open by means of an areolar fibrous tissue, which, as I have already stated, is found in certain parts of the walls of the sinuses. All the venous orifices are concealed by fibrous areolae, none of the veins opening di- rectly into the sinus. Most of them run for a certain distance from behind forwards, i. e. in an opposite direction to the course of the blood, before they open into the sinus; the most anterior veins, which run from before back- wards, are the only exceptions to this rule, Moreover, the fold or bands which are formed in this and other sinuses do not perform the functions of valves, for they permit fluids to pass from the sinus into the veins. The inferences drawn by physiologists from the direction in which the cerebral veins open mto the sinuses, appear to me to be erroneous, for that direction facilitates, in- stead of opposing the reflux of the blood. I have satisfied myself that the cerebral veins have no valves in any part of their extent. The superior longitudinal sinus also receives proper veins from the dura mater, some venous or diploic veins, and several veins which commence in the pericranium, and establish a communication between the external and in- ternal veins of the cranium. Among the communicating veins are those which traverse the parietal foramina, and are called the veins of Santorini. A very great number of veins penetrate through the longitudinal suture, to open into the corresponding sinus in young subjects; the communication of the