ANGEIOLOGY. 820 nated by a metal pipe, provided -with a stop-cock, and supporting a capillary tube of glass, which is better than one made of steel or platinum, like those generally used in Germany. A ring is attached to the upper end of the -glass tube, by means of which the apparatus may be suspended: this greatly facilitates the employment of the apparatus. In order to inject the lymphatics, one of these vessels should be exposed at a greater or less distance from the centre : for example, in the lower extremity, upon either the internal or external malleolus, or, what is still better, over the metatarso-phalangal articulations, in the way practised by Mascagni; the vessel must then be punctured, and the tube introduced into its interior ; the stop-cock is then opened, 'and the mercury runs as far as the gland into which the vessel opens, and at the same time enters all the vessels which anastomose either directly or indirectly with the one into which the tube is introduced. The vasa efiferentia are also soon injected, and if the experiment .be continued long enough, the mercury will, in all probability, reach the thoracic duct if no rupture should occur. The internal jugularj subclavian, .and brachio-cephalic veins of both sides of the body may be previously injected, in order to prevent the mercury entering these vessels by the thoracic duct and its supplemental canals. We may also have recourse to the following method, on account of its greater facility : puncture a lymphatic gland with a capillary tube; all the efferent vessels which communicate with the cells thus punctured, and all the other portions of the lymphatic system which communicate with those vessels will thus be injected. But this method is manifestly defective. AVith regard to the choice of subjects it may be remarked, that the lymph- atics are much more easUy seen when the cellular tissue is moderately infiltrated, than when there is extreme emaciation. Fat subjects are the worst of all: adults are preferable to children and old subjects. In describing the lymphatics, I shall follow the same arrangement as Mascagni, with some slight modifications. Thus, after having described the thoracic duct and the great right lymphatic trunk, I shall notice in succession all the lymphatic vessels which enter it, beginning with those of the lower extremities. I shall not describe the vessels and glands separately, but I shall group the vessels around the glands, as around central points towards which they all converge. DESCRIPTION OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. The Thoracic Duct— the right thoracic duct. — The Lymphatic System of the Lower Extremity — of the Pelvic and Lumhar regions — of the Liver — of the Stomach, Spleen, and Pancreas — of the Intestines — of the Thorax — of the Head — of the Cervical regions— of the Upper Extremity and upper part of the Trunk. The Thoracic Duct. Dissection. The thoracic duct may be examined, when distended with chyle, in an animal killed during the process of digestion. If it is to be injected in the human subject, turn the intestines to the left, and the liver to the right; seek for the reservoir of Pecquet {receptaculum chyli) between the aorta and the right crus of the diaphragm ; follow one of the lymphatic trunks leading from this reservoir to the lumbar glands, and puncture it with the injecting tube Care must be taken to tie the left subclavian vein both on the inside and on the outside of the termination of the internal jugular vein; or stUl better first fill the subclavian atd internal jugular veins with a solid injection. If we wish to make a preparati'm to be preserved, it is much better to inject the thoracic duct with isinglass size by an Anel's syrmge, than to use mercury.