NEUROLOGY. 1040 several small white filaments, which go to the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic; above these it gives a short grey filament which almost immediately swells into a ganglion, from which a long, slender, descending filament proceeds to join the internal descending ?ierve ; lastly, it furnishes two ascending filaments, the lower one of which joins the pneumogastric nerve, and the upper one the hypoglossal or ninth nerve. TTie anterior branch of the third cervical nerve. This (above 298.) is twice as large as the preceding ; it at first passes forwards to emerge from the inter-transverse space, then downwards and outwards, and having gained the under surface of the sterno-mastoid muscle, it expands into a great number of branches, which constitute the cervical plexus properly so called, and may be divided into a superior and an inferior portion. The superior division passes outwards and backwards beneath the sterno- mastoid muscle, and bifurcates upon its posterior borders. One of the branches of the bifurcation ascends and is called the mastoid nerve (y) ; the other, which is reflected over the posterior border of the muscle, anastomoses by one or two filaments with the anterior branch of the second cervical nerve, and sub- divides into the superficial cervical nerve (A) and the auricular nerve (q) : both of the branches of the bifurcation anastomose with the second cervical nerve. This superior division, moreover, gives off a small nerve, which ascends between the auricular and mastoid nerves ; also a communicating branch to the superior cervical ganglion ; and, lastly, a series of branches (u), which anastomose with the spinal accessory nerve of WiUis (<), some immediately, and others whilst within the substance of the sterno-mastoid muscle. This superior division of the third nerve sometimes joins the lowest branch of the second nerve. The inferior or descending portion passes vertically downwards in front of the scalenus anticus, gives off a long slender filament to the internal descending cervical nerve, and terminates partly by anastomosing with the fourth cervical nerve (below «), and partly by becoming continuous with the clavicular nerves (u). A considerable branch which enters the levator anguli scapulae may be regarded as belonging to this inferior portion. This branch for the angularis sometimes arises at the point of bifurcation of the anterior branch of the third nerve. The anterior branch of the fourth cervical nerve. This branch (below s) is of the same size as the preceding; it gives off the phrenic nerve (/), which sometimes arises in the inter-transverse space : it then passes downwards and outwards in contact with the scalenus anticus for about ten lines, and divides into two terminal branches, the one internal, the other external, which soon subdivide and cover the supra-clavicular triangle with their diverging ramifications: these branches constitute the supra-clavicular and acromial nerves (u). Just opposite its division the anterior branch of the fourth cervical nerve receives a branch from the third, which appears to be shared between its two terminal divisions. The fourth cervical generally sends off a small communicating branch to the fifth cervical nerve. The Cervical Plexus. The term cervical plexus is applied to the series of anastomoses (z s) formed by the anterior branches of the first, second, third, and fourth cervical nerves. Some anatomists call it the deep cervical plexus, in contra-distinction to the superficial branches given off from it, which, according to this view, constitute the superficial cervical plexus. , , , , *„„^ „, This plexus which occupies the anterior and lateral aspect of the four su- perior cervical'vertebrae, is situated beneath the posterior border of the stemo- cleido-mastoid muscle, to the outer side of the internal jugular vein, between the rectus capitis anticus major and the cervical attachments of the splenius and levator anguli scapulse : it is concealed by a considerable quantity of fat,