THE FRONTAL NERVE. 1109 H H 4 which covers the petrous portion of the temporal bone and the sphenoid bone. In order to demonstrate these twigs, the dura mater must be previously rendered transparent by maceration in diluted nitric acid. The Ophthalmic Division of the Fifth Nerve. The ophthalmic nerve of Willis, or ophthalmic division of the fifth nerve (nerf orbitaire, Winslow; orbito-frontal, Chauss.; a, fig. 296. &c.), is the highest and smallest of the three divisions : it passes forwards, outwards, and upwards, in the substance of the external wall of the cavernous sinus, m which situation it has a plexiform structure. It is there divided into an external branch, called the lachryvial nerve (e,fig.296.), a middle branch, the frontal nerve (continuation of a), and an internal branch or the nasal nerve; these three branches enter the orbit through difierent parts of the sphenoidal fissure. Before this division, the ophthahnic nerve gives off a retrograde filament (nervus recurrens inter laminas tentorii, Arnold;f, fig. 296.), which passes backwards, closely applied to the twig furnished by the pathetic nerve to the tentorium cerebelli, and running parallel to that twig enters the tentorium. TTie Lachrymal or Lachrymo-palpebral Nerve. Dissection. First expose the nerve in the orbit, and then trace it back- wards to its origin. This dissection is difficult, unless the parts have been macerated in diluted nitric acid. The nerve is then to be traced into the sub- stance of the upper eyelid. The lachrymal nerve {e,fig. 296.), the smallest of the three branches of the ophthalmic, comes oflf from the outer side of that nerve, in the substance of the external wall of the cavernous sinus, where it is difficult to discover its origin and course, on account of its intimate adhesion to the dura mater ; it enters the orbit through the narrowest part of the sphenoidal fissure, runs along (below s, fig. 300.) the upper border of the external rectus, passes through the lachrymal gland, to which it gives several filaments, pierces the fibrous layer of the upper eyelid, descends vertically within that eyelid, between its fibrous layer and the orbicularis muscle, and divides into two principal cutaneous fil- aments ; a palpebral, which runs along the lower border of the tarsal cartilage, and an ascending temporal, which is lost in the integuments upon the anterior temporal region. During its course, the lachrym£d nerve gives off a malar branch, which may be regarded as resulting from a bifurcation of the nerve. This branch perforates the malar bone, and anastomoses with the facial nerve upon the cheek.* The Iwchrymal branches, properly so called, are extremely small. The real termination of the lachrymal nerve is in the upper eyelid, and hence the term lachrymo-palpebral has been given it, I have already said that the lachrymal nerve not unfrequently arises by two filaments, one of which is derived from the ophthalmic of the fifth, and the other from the pathetic nerve (Mr. Swan describes this as the usual condition). In a specimen which I have now before me, there are two lachrymal nerves, one of which arises in the ordinary manner, that is to say, from the ophthalmic division of the fifth, whilst the other, which is external and smaller, arises both from the pathetic and the frontal nerve. These two lachrymal nerves anas- tomose with each other. The Frontal Nerve. The frontal nerve (fronto-palpebral, Chauss.) may be regarded as the con- tinuation of the ophthahnic ia,fig. 296.) both in size and direction; it enters • Authors speak of a filament from the lachrymal nerve, which anastomoses with the superior maxil ary nerve near the anterior extremity of the infra-orbltal fissure. I have never seen this filament. seen [Before reaching the lachrvmal gland the lachrym.il nervo may give off one or two commu- nicating filaments, to join the temporal filaments of the orbitil branch 300 10? thn superior maxillary nerve before those latter perfor,ito the outer wall of the orbit?