THE VEINS. 761 For example the cerebral sinuses, which are really veins, do not accompany the arteries; nor are the hepatic veins, the ophthalmic vein, and the vena azygos, satellites of'their corresponding arteries. ^ ^ The superficial veins exist only in parts where the circulation m the deep veins is liable to be obstructed during the exercise of those parts. In fact, as the venous blood does not circulate like the arterial; under the influence of an impellino- agent directly connected with them, it is retarded by the slightest cause and hence, therefore, the necessity for additional means of circulation. The superficial veins, therefore, constitute, in reference to the deep veins, a collateral route for the venous blood, especially during the contraction of the muscles of the upper and lower extremities, as we find in persons who exercise their limbs much. I have shewn that the tongue, as well as the extremities, is provided with a superficial and a deep set of veins. The superficial veins are situated between the investing aponeuroses of the muscles and the skin, from which they are separated by a very thin layer of fascia : they are ac- companied by the subcutaneous nerves and lymphatics. From this description it follows, that such of the deep veins as accompany the arteries do not require any special description, because they have the same distribution and the general relations as the arteries : the description of the venous system will therefore be confined to an examination of such veins as pursue a course independent of that of the arteries. Anastomoses and Plexuses. The anastomoses of the veins are more numerous than those of the arteries, and they take place by means of much larger vessels ; an arrangement which compensates for the want of an impelling organ directly connected with them. Thus, anastomoses by direct inosculation, by lateral, transverse, or oblique communications, and anastomoses by convergence, are found in every situation, and with all conceivable varieties. The branches of the veins form lozenge-shaped meshes; and both the trunks and the branches communicate freely with each other ; that is to say, the superficial with the deep set, the veins of the superficial set and those of the deep set amongst each other, and the vena cava superior with the vena cava inferior; so that we may say that the whole venous system forms one vascular network, and it is by these free communications that such obstacles as impede or even completely intercept the course of the blood, in a given part, are rendered incapable of stopping it altogether. In order to intercept the course of the venous blood completely, it would, in fact, be necessary to obliterate, not only the principal trunk, but also all the collateral channels. One remarkable mode of anastomosis is the following : a collateral vein arises from some point of a particular vein, and terminates at a greater or less distance in the same vein, like a canal intended to xmite two distant points of the same stream : this col- lateral channel is intended to receive a number of veins, which would otherwise have terminated in the principal vessel. The following is a variety of this kind of anastomosis: one vein divides into two of equal size, which diverge from each other at a very acute angle, or rather run parallel, and reunite at a greater or less distance. The saphenous vein often presents this arrangement. A venous plexus, which consists of a complicated network of vessels, is no- thing more than the highest developement of an anastomosis : venous plexuses are found in parts where the circulation is liable to be retarded, or in organs whose functions require a large afflux of bloodexample, the vesical, uterine, and spermatic plexuses. The veins are rarely tortuous, like the arteries, but are generally straight; a circumstance which also helps to lessen the effects of the deficiency of a direct impeUing organ ; for tortuosities, by multiplying the points of friction, would evidently retard the flow of blood in the veins. The great veins are not at aU tortuous, but the smallest veins, and those forming the plexuses, are distinctly so. The tortuosities of veins are generally regarded as the result of their too