906 NEUROLOGY. The membranous labyrinth (fig. 265.) is not so extensive as the osseous labyrinth : thus, it does not enter the coch- lea, and its diameter is much less than that of the bony labyrinth. It scarcely occu- pies one half the cavity of the latter. The space between the bony and mem- branous labyrinths is filled with a limpid fluid, named after Cotugno, theliquor Cotun- nii, although it had been noticed by several anatomists before that author. (J5e aquce ductibus auris humance internee. Cotugno, . 1760.) It is the perilymph of M. Breschet! There is no air in the labyrinth ; and it is somewhat singular that so ac- curate an anatomist as M. Ribes should have recently defended a contrary opinion, although it has been repeatedly refuted. The membranous labyrinth is itself filled with a fluid, which was correctly described by Scarpa, and which might be named the fluid of Scarpa. M. de Blainville has compared it to the vitreous humour of the eye, and has named it la vitrine auditive: it is the endo-lymph of M. Breschet. The membranous labyrinth consists of membranous semicircular canals, and of a vestibular portion. Membranous labyrinth (left side). The Membranous Semicircular Canals. The membranous semicircular canals (opq. Jig. 265.) were regarded as nervous cords by Scarpa, who first described them; they have precisely the same form as the osseous semicircular canals, although they do not completely fill them. Soemmerring improperly calls them tubuli membrano-cartilaginosi. Each membranous canal, like the corresponding osseous one, has its ampulla, or ovoid vesicle (o' p' q'). The two vertical membranous canals unite at one end into a common canal, and therefore the three membranous semicircular canals, like their osseous investments, open into the membranous vestibule by five distinct orifices. The membranous vestibule consists of two very distinct parts, the common sinus and the saccule. The sinus communis vestibuli, or vestibular utricle (u) *, as was first shown by Scarpa, forms the confluence of the membranous semicircular canals which open into it by five orifices. The utricle is situated in the fovea semi-elliptica of the vestibule, and floats as it were in the liquid of Cotugno ; it is distended by the liquid of Scarpa, so as to resemble an oblong buUa. The liquid of Co- tugno separates it from the base of the stapes, as Scarpa very well pointed out. The sacculus vestibuli, or vestibular saccule (sacculus proprius sphajricus, Soemmerring; s) is much smaller than the utricle. Its connexions with the utricle have been compared by Fischer to those of the crystalline lens with the vitreous body: it occupies the fovea hemispherica of the vestibule, and is there- fore situated below the utricle. According to Soemmerring it does not ad- here to the utricle ; that author has even represented a small space between these two parts, j According to others there is a communication between them, and the saccule is merely a supplementary cavity to the utricle. I have not yet been able to satisfy myself concerning this point. The membranous labyrinth, then, is quite distinct from the membrane * Alveus ulriculosTiS of Scarpa, utriculus communis of Soemmerring, sinus median of M. ''t'^Sacciilus teres cum utriculo communi nuUihi cohffiret, et ubi cultri apice aperitur, spha!ri- cam formam retinet. (Explanation of fig. 2. pi. 3.) According to M. Breschet, the sacculus .and utriculus adhere intimately, and he is inclined to believe that their cavities even communicate, hut from the extreme delicacy of these structures, he has been unable to confirm this suppo- sition.