ANGEIOLOGY. 726 be a continuation of the radial, and at other times very small, and as it were a mere vestige. It often arises by a common trunk with the dorsal carpal brancli just described; it runs along the dorsal surface of the second interosseous space, and having reached the lower part of it, gives superficial dorsal arteries to the index and middle fingers, and then bends forwards between the heads of the second and third metacarpal bones, to anastomose with that digital branch of the superficial palmar arch which gives oS the internal collateral artery of the index, and the external collateral artery of the middle finger.* The interosseous artery of the first space is so large, that it is described as formed by the bifurcation of the radial: it arises from that artery between the first and second metacarpal bones, and sometimes runs along the dorsal aspect of the first interosseous space, and at others between the first dorsal inter- osseous muscle and the adductor poUicis ; in either case, when it reaches the lower part of the space, it divides into two branches, which may arise separately from the carpal portion of the radial artery, as in fig. 211., and which consti- tute the internal collateral artery of the thumb and the external collateral artery of the index finger (x). The external collateral artery of the thumb, sometimes derived from the preceding, or even from the extremity of the superficial palmar arch, crosses the muselcs of the ball of the thumb obliquely, to reach the outer side of its metacarpo-phalangal articulation (v,fig. 210.), and runs along the outer border of the thumb.-j- The deep Palmar Arch. The third or palmar portion of the radial artery constitutes the deep palmar arch {b,fig. 211.), which is completed by inosculating with a branch of the ulnar, in the same manner as we have seen the superficial palmar arch of the ulnar artery completed by a branch of the radial. This arch is situated deeply across the front of the metacarpal bones, immediately below their upper extremities ; it rests immediately upon them and the interosseous muscles, and is therefore subjacent to all the nerves, tendons, and muscles (except the in- terosseous) in the palm of the hand. The deep palmar arch describes a slight curve, the convexity of which is directed downwards. I have seen the palmar arch formed by the dorsal artery of the second interosseous space, wliich then dipped between the upper ends of the second and third metacarpal bones. The deep palmar arch gives off very short superior or ascending branches (recurrentes), which are lost in front of the carpus, anastomosing with the an- terior carpal branches of the radial and ulnar arteries ; also some descending or palmar interosseous arteries (d d; interossese volares, Hgller), three or four in number, which descend vertically along the interosseous spaces, and anastomose with the descending digital branches (cut across in ^^.211.) of the superficial palmar arch, either opposite or above their bifurcation into the col- lateral arteries of the fingers. The size of the palmar interosseous arteries is extremely variable, as well as that of the deep palmar arch itself; it bears an inverse proportion to that of the superficial palmar arch and its branches. The relative size of the different palmar interosseous arteries, also, varies much ; most generally the first is the largest, at other times the second, and occasionally the third. The deep palmar arch also gives off the posterior or perforating branches * [Three small branches, two of which usually arise by a common trunk, are given off from the radial artery near the dorsal aspect of the head of the first metacarpal bone ; two of thera form the superficial dorsal arteries of the two sides of the thumb (dorsaks pollicis), whilst the other is the dorsal artery of the radial side of the index finger (dorsalis indicis).'] t [The two collateral arteries of the thumb, and the external collateral of the mdex finger, frequently arise in a different manner from that described above: thus the two arteries for the thumb may take origin from a common trunk, which is then named the preat or principal artery of the thumb (magna vel princeps poUicis); whilst the artery for the index finger arises separately, and is named the radial collateral artery ({t the index finger (radtahs tndicis).\