THE PERICARDIUM. 657 C 2 wills of the arteries, so as to permit the blood to pass from the ventricles; thPv then fall down at the moment when the distended arteries re-act upon thefr contents, and thus prevent the reflux of the blood into the ventricles The contraction and dilatation of the heart have been termed its systole and its^wsto/e^ auricles contract simultaneously; so also do the two ventricles. The dUatation of the auricles occurs during the contraction of the ventricles, and vice versa. Dilatation is not an active phenomenon, for the hbres ot the heart are so arranged, that they can produce shortening and contraction of this orean, but can neither elongate nor dilate it. . ^ , The spiral arrangement of the fibres shows that the twisting motion of the heart described by the ancients is not so devoid of foundation as at first sight might be imagined. , • j It has been stated, but without proof, that the ventricles perform a kmd of swing movement, in consequence of which the apex of the heart is carried forwards. . . ^ i j The sounds of the heart probably result from friction of the blood agamst the arterial and auricular orifices, and not from contraction of the muscular fibres, nor from the apex striking against the parietes of the thorax, nor from the percussion of the blood against the waUs of the heart.* THE PERICARDIUM. The pericardium, {p p, Jig. 170.) is a fibro-serous sac, which surrounds and protects the heart. Congenital absence of the pericardium is extremely rare: complete adhe- sion of the pericardium to the heart, or cellular transformation of this mem- brane, have been most commonly mistaken for such malformation. Never- theless, I have seen the heart of an adult to which there was no pericardium: this anomaly has been figured by M. Breschet. The heart was free from any adhesion, and occupied the cavity of the left pleura. The older anatomists, and particularly Senac, attempted to determine exactly how much larger the cavity of the pericardium is than the heart. Having injected water into the pericardium in different subjects, this observer found that the quantity of liquid contained between the heart and its covering varied from six to twenty-four ounces. I have satisfied myself that in the healthy state, the capacity of the pericardium exactly corresponds to the size of the heart when that organ is dilated to the utmost. In certain cases of hydrops pericardii, this sac becomes enormously enlarged: on the other hand, its inextensibility explains the syncope which immediately follows rupture of the heart f, and which is produced by the accumulation of a small quantity of blood in the pericardium. The syncope which accompanies the effusion from acute pericarditis, probably depends upon a similar cause. Form. The pericardium is shaped like a cone, with its base downwards and its apex upwards. It has an external and an internal surface. • [The action of the heart is accompanied by two distinct sounds ; the first is synchronous with tlic pulse in the immediate vicinity of the heart, and, consequently, witli the contraction of the ventricles ; the second is more abrupt and clear, and immediately succeeds the first. According to the prevalent opinion, the first sound depends essentially upon the muscular contraction of the ventricles, increased and modified by the closure of the auriculo-ventricular valves, by the passage of the blood over the internal surface of the ventricles, and by the stroke of the heart against the ribs. Tlic second sound is generally believed to be produced by the tension of the sigmoid valves at the root of the aorta and pulmonary artery, in consequence of the re-action of the column of blood against them. Since the opinion given in the text was written, M. Crnveilhier has had .m opportunity of studying the motions .ind sounds of the lieart in a case of malformation in which that organ was exposed on the fore part of the chest; and he is led to infer that both sounds are (iroduced by the sigmoid valves ; the second by their ex. pansion, and tlie first by tin; opposite movement from the centre to the sides of the arteries 1 t Ileatli from rupture of tlie heart is not produced by liacmorrhage, for often wo do not find more than seven or eight ounces of blood escaped; but it is caused by compression of the heart in consequence of the inextensibility of the pericardium. '