U28 NEUROLOGY. .jaw it divides into three or four branches which subdivide into secondary branches, which may be arranged into the buccal, mental, and cervical sets. The buccal branches run horizontally forwards in front of the masseter, to which they give off some small filaments, and then anastomose with each other and with the infra-orbital branches of the temporo-facial nerve. A very beautiful anastomosis is found between the buccal branch of the inferior max- illary, and one of these buccal branches of the cervico-facial nerve : we have already pointed out a similar anastomosis between an infra-orbital branch of the temporo-facial and this same buccal branch of the inferior maxillary. The mental branches are intended for the lower lip. They are reflected up- wards so as to describe an arch having its concavity directed upwards ; they are at first situated beneath the platysma myoides, then pass beneath the trian- gularis oris, and form with the mental branch of the inferior maxillary division of the fifth nerve an interlacement or mental plexus, which has a close analogy with the interlacement of the infra-orbital branches of the facial with those of the superior maxillary division of the fifth nerve, but is less complicated. Thus, the mental branches of the facial nerve are more superficial than those of the fifth, and their filaments are smaller; the radiating branches of the facial nerve run at first forwards and then upwards, whilst those of the fifth nerve run directly upwards. The mental branches of the facial nerve perforate the quadratus menti and the orbicularis oris, to which muscles they are almost entirely distributed ; they also send several long and slender filaments to the point of the chin, some of which are cutaneous. The mental branches of the fifth nerve are chiefly situated between the muscles and the mucous membrane, to which latter they are distributed, more especially to the free borders of the lower lip. The cervical branches of the cervico-facial run forward in the supra- hyoid region, beneath the platysma, and, describing arches with their concavities turned upwards, they pass upwards and forwards to terminate near the chin. Among these branches, there is one which passes vertically downwards to anastomose with the superficial cervical nerve of the cervical plexus. The cervical branches of the facial nerve are separated from the cervical branches of the cervical plexus by the platysma, and they are all distributed to that muscle and the levator labii superioris. Summary. The facial nerve supplies all the cutaneous muscles of the cranium and of the face, and therefore section and compression of this nerve cause complete paralysis of these muscles : it is the nerve of expression, or the respiratory nerve of the face {Bell) ; it also evidently gives off some cutaneous filaments, especially near the commissure of the lips, and this may explain the numbness which I have known to occur in individuals affected with hemiplegia of the face ; lastly, it furnishes a great number of anastomotic filaments (whence it has been called the small sympathetic) ; these are given to the branches of the cervical plexus, to the auditory nerve, to the pneumogastric, and more especially to the fifth nerve. , ... The anastomoses of the facial with the fifth nerve merit special notice; they are effected with the frontal and nasal nerves of the ophthalmic or first divi- sion of the fifth ; with the superior maxillary or second division by means of the infra-orbital nerves and the cranial branch of the vidian ; which latter I even ren-ard as one of the origins of the facial nerve; and with the inferior maxillary or third division of the fifth by means of the mental nerve, the buccal nerve, and more especially the auriculo-temporal nerve. The branch given by the auriculo-temporal to the facial nerve may be regarded as one of the origins of the last-mentioned nerve. , ^ • , j cfti, Notwithstanding these numerous anastomoses, the facial nerve and the fittn nerve cannot supply the place of each other. Anatomy shows "o difference in the structure of these nerves, but a great '^'^ .^''^^Zk the facial nerve being intended for the muscles, whilst the fafth is distributed to the integuments and the organs of the senses.