294 I.BCTUKE XII. cessively in the Plagiostomes. They are much fewer in number in the latter : from four to fourteen ova, for example, are developed at each breeding season in the Torpedo marmorata.* In all fishes the ova are formed in chambers of the ‘ stroma,’ called ‘ ovisacs.’ In osseous fishes the ovisacf consists of a delicate membranous hollow 77. sphere—the ‘ ovarian vesicle’ {Jig. 77. a) surrounded by a thin layer of the proper tissue or ‘ sti'oma’ {b) of the ovary, which, as it protrudes into the ovarian cavity, carries before it a covering of the delicate vascular mu- cous membrane. This tunic is not present in Cyclo- ovarian Ovum: stomes or Plagiostoiues. The ovfim consists of the pri- ma^giSd!**’ mordial or germinal vesicle, ‘ germ-cell’ (c), which, in osseous fishes, shows several nuclei or ‘germ-spots’{d), but in Plagiostomes only a single nucleus. Around the germ-cell there accumulates a collection of minute yolk-granules (e) with oil-like globules (/), the whole contained in a delicate yolk-membrane (g). The increase of the ova is due chiefly to the accumulation of the yolk, and its colour to that which the oil-globules acquire as the ova ap- proach maturity. At this period the ova in osseous fishes escape into the cavity of the ovarium; and to their then outer covering, the yolk membrane, is added a second tunic called ‘ chorion.’ The ovisac re- mains behind and coalesces with the stroma, to form, according to Barry §, a “ vesicle analogous to the Graaffian vesicle of Mammals : ” but the evacuated ovisacs collapse and speedily disappear in the shrunken ovarium, after the discharge of the ova, in Dermopteri and osseous fishes : they are longer recognisable in the Skate. The periodical, but rapid and enormous increase of the hard and soft roes in osseous fishes, admits of no rigid cinctures, no un- yielding bony hoops around the abdominal cavity, such as would have resulted from a conversion of the pleurapophyses, by their junction with hasmapophyses and a sternum, into ‘true ribs.’ We see, therefore, in the fecundity of fishes,—in this compensation for their limited intelligence and numerous foes,—the physiological con- dition of their free or ‘ floating’ ribs. Fecundation Certain changes and peculiar phenomena attend the increase of size of the soft and hard roes during these primary pro- cesses of generation. The colours of the fishes become more marked and brilliant; the different sexes are often distinguished by peculiar tints; as the male Stickleback by his bright red throat, for example. The claspers in the male Plagiostomes then acquire their full develop- ment and force ; the basal glands in those of the Rays enlarge. As • LXXXI. ^ ‘ Ovisac ’ of Barry, evil. 1st series. f XX. iv. 1838, p. 131. § evil. 1st series, p. 314.