DKVELOrMKNT OF FISHES. 295 CXXII. the period of ‘ fecundation ’ approaches, the female osseous fish seeks a favourable situation for depositing her spawn, usually in shoal water, where it can be most influenced by solar warmth and light. The marine Herring, Mackerel, and Pilchard approach the shore in shoals : the fluviatile Salmon quits the estuary to ascend the river, overcoming, with astonishing perseverance and force, the rapids or other mechanical difficulties that impede its migration to the shallow sources, whither the sexual instinct impels it as the fit place for ovi position. The female fish is closely pursued by the male, sometimes by two; in the Capelin (^Mallotus\ these swim on each side of her, aiding by their pressure in the expulsion of the spawn, and at the same time impregnating it by diffusing over it the fluid of the milt: thus absorbed in the sexual passion, they have been seen, on the shores of Newfoundland, to rush on land in their spasmodic course over the shallows, which they strew with the fecundated ova. In some genera violent combats take place between the males. Mr. Shaw*, a most able observer of the development of the Salmon, states :— “ On the 10th of January, 1836, I observed a female salmon of about 161bs., and two males of at least 251bs., engaged in depositing their spawn. The two males kept up an incessant conflict during the whole day for possession of the female, and, in the course of their struggles, frequently drove each other almost ashore, and were repeatedly on the surface displaying their dorsal fins, and lash- ing the water with their tails.” “ The female throws herself at inter- vals of a few minutes upon her side; and while in that position, by the rapid action of her tail, she digs a receptacle for her ova, a portion of which she deposits, and again turning upon her side she covers it up by the renewed action of the tail; thus alternately digging, de- positing, and covering the ova, until the process is completed by the laying of the whole mass, an operation which generally occupies three or four days.” In the ovo-viviparous osseous fishes, the well-developed clo- acal papilla, in which the sperm-ducts terminate, doubtless serves to ensure intromission. The superadded claspers in the male Pla- giostomes lend more effectual aid in the act of internal impregnation ; for in those species that are oviparous the ova are impregnated and covered by a nidamental coat or ‘ shell ’ pi'ior to exclusion. Fcetation—The observation of the more simple mode of impregna- tion in osseous fishes, so analogous to that of the dioecious palms in which the fertilising pollen is wafted through the aerial ocean and strewed over the humid papillose stigmata of the female flower, naturally suggested the idea of artificial impregnation, of which