DIGESTIVE SYSTEM OF EISIIES. 245 organisation for wliicli that canal is the commissariat is the most simple in the Piscine class. The Lamprey, at the head of the Dermopteious order, derives from the slight spiral extension of its intestinal mu- cous coat the required concomitant complexity of the digestive canal. The torpid Lepidosiren, which, though of a much more advanced type of ichthyic organisation, can have but little expendituie of nervous and muscular force to repair, seems, in like manner, to derive from a spiral extension of its thick and glandular intestinal mucous membrane the equivalent of a pancreas, and no rudiment of that gland exists in this fish. In several Osseous Fishes either the inac- tive nature of the species, or the extent or special modifications (as the long intestine and glandular palate of the Carp, for example,) of the mucous membrane in the ordinary tract of the alimentary canal, render unnecessary the presence of a pancreas. Thus there is no caecal production of the duodenum in the Amhassis, the Wolf-fish, nor the Warty Agriope, nor in most Labroids, Cyprinoids, Lucioids, ^ Siluroids, nor in the Lophohranchs and Plectognats ; nor in the genera Antennarius, Malthceus, and Batrachus. The pancreas is re- jiresented by a single pyloric caecum in the Sandlance and Polypterus {fig- 62. /e); by two caeca in most Lahyrinthibranchs, in many species of Amphiprion, in the Lophius, the Turbot, and the Mormyrus {fig- 63. k); by three caeca in the Perch, the percoid Popes {Acerind), the Asprodes, and Diploprions ; of from four to nine caeca in the genus Coitus; of from five to nine caeca in the genus Trigla; of six caeca and upwards in Scorpmna and Holocen- trum ; and so on, increasing to a numerous group of pendent pyloric pouches, as we find in the Scomheroids, Chaetodonts, Gadoids, Ilalecoids, Cyclopterus, and Lepidosteus. There is a difference, how- ever, worthy of note, in the mode and extent of attachment of these numerous caeca: in the Salmon (prep. 773.), the Flerring, and Haddock, they rank almost in a line along the whole duodenum : in the Gym- notus and Lump-fish they form a circular cluster around the distal side of the pylorus. Even in the longitudinally arranged caeca the principle of concentration dawns : thus the fifty pancreatic caeca of the Pilchard communicate with the duodenum by thirty orifices ; but the fifty attenuated terminal blind sacs in the pancreas of the Lump- fish unite, reunite, and discharge their secretion by a circle of six orifices around the duodenal side of the pyloric valve. In the Tunny a more subdivided bunch of pancreatic caeca empty themselves by five orifices; in the vSword-fish by two orifices; and, finally, in the Sturgeon and Paddle-fish {fig- 61. k) by a single opening of what now becomes the short and wide duct of a piincreas. The interpo- sition of cellular tissue binding together longer, more slender aind