242 LECTUUE IX. lowei’ organised Mollusks: other members of the Piscine class do not show by permanent structures the gradational steps in the develop- ment of the hepatic, as in that of the pancreatic gland. Passing to the Myxinoids we find the liver to be, as in all higher fishes, a well- defined conglomerate, or acinous parenchymatoid organ, with a portal and an arterial circulation, with hepatic ducts, and generally a gall- bladder and cystic duct, by which the bile is conveyed to the duodenum, from which the stomach is divided by a pyloric valvular orifice.* The texture of the liver is soft and lacerable ; its colour usually lighter than in higher Vertebrata, being whitish in the Lophius, in many other fishes of a yellowish-gray or yellowish-brown : it is, hoAvever, reddish in the Bream ; of a bright red in the Holocentrum orientale, orange in Holocentrum hastatum, yellow in Atherina presbyter, green in Petromyzon marinus, reddish-brown in the Tunny, dark brown in the Lepidosiren ; almost black in the Paddle- fish. In most fishes the liver is remarkable for the quantity of fine oil in its substance, under which form almost the whole of the adi- pose tissue is there concentrated in the Cod-tribe, the Rays, and the Sharks.f Fishes which, like the Salmon and Wolf-fish, have oil more diffused through the bodyhave comparatively little oil in the liver. The liver is generally of large proportional size : it is attached at the fore-part of the abdomen to the aponeurotic wall partitioning off the pericardium {fig. 61. Z, o), and extends backwards, with a few exceptions, further on the left than on the right side: in the Carp, the Bream, and the Stickleback, the right lobe is longest. Its shape varies with that of the body or of the abdominal cavity: it is broad- est, for example, in the Rays, longest in the Eels ; not, however, elongated in the Gymnotus, in which apodal fish, by reason of the peculiar aggregation of the organs of vegetative life in the region of the head, the liver is divided into two short and broad lobes con- nected by a transverse lobule. The liver consists of one lobe in most Salmonoid and Lucioid Fishes, in the Gymnodonts and Lopho- branchs, in the Mullets, Loaches, and Bullheads. It is long and simple in the Lamprey and Lepidosiren ; long and bilobed in the Conger. The Lump-fish has a lobulus besides the chief lobe, which is round and fiat. There is a short thick convex lobe to the right of the long left lobe in the Lophius. In many fishes the two lobes are subequal: they are rarely quite distinct, as in tlie Myxinoids; but commonly confluent at their base, as in the Wolf-fish; or connected by a short transverse portion, as in most Sharks, the Siluroids, the * The Bream is the only fish in which I have found the cystic duct terminating directly in the stomach. I 'J’he myriads of Dog-fish captured and commonly rejected on our coasts show that the fishermen have not yet taken full advantage of this anatomical fact, which ex- poses to them an abundant source of a pure ami valuable oil.