178 LECTURE Vlir. walls of the optic lobes, a small part only being continued forwards to the cerebrum in most Osseous Fishes. The anterior cerebellar crura are chiefly lost in the inner walls, septum, or longitudinal commissure of the optic lobes. These lobes are commonly of a subspherical figure, and larger than the cerebral lobes (as in figs. 47. 49. 51, 52. o) ; they are often larger than the cerebellum, (^5. ib.); they are of equal size with the cerebellum in the Eel; are smaller than the cerebral lobes, but larger than the cerebellum, in the Polypterus and Lepidosiren {fig. 54. o.) ; they are smaller than either the cerebrum or cerebellum in the Amhlyopsis spelcBus {fig. 50. o.), and in the Sharks {fig. 55. o). In the latter they bear the same proportion to the optic nerves and eyes as in other fishes, their small relative size depending on the advanced development of both cerebellum and cerebrum : in the blind Amblyopsis of the subterraneous waters, the diminution of the optic lobes relates to the almost total abrogation of the visual organ : but since both in the Amblyopsis and the equally blind Myxine these lobes are present, they cannot be exclusively the central ganglion of the optic nerve, nor their sole function that of receiving the im- pressions of the sense of sight, giving them form, and making them perceptible and tenable as ideas by the animal. The optic lobes are hollow in most fishes. The exterior surface shows blended grey and white matter, the white fibres converging to the optic nerves on the outer side of the lobes, and passing trans- versely from one lobe to the other from their inner sides across the ventricle. * Some of these fibres unite with the anterior crura of the cerebellum to form the ‘ longitudinal commissure ’ (fig. 52. r), which consists of two or four medullary fasciculi, decreasing in the Tench, increasing in the Cod, as they pass forwards, f On divaricating the optic lobes from above, their cavity or ventricle is exposed: its floor is variously configurated in different fishes. There are one or two small white tubercles (‘tuberculi optici,’^5r. 51, 52. t) on each side of the back part of the septum : the Pike and Perch show four of these bodies, the Carp and Herring two; in the Carp they are oblong, juxtaposed, and were called ‘tuberculum cordiforme’ by Hallerthey are not present in the Polypterus, Lepidosiren, Sturgeon, * These transverse fibres are analogous to the ‘ corpus callosum,’ but not homo- logous with it, as Carus (xciv.), Cuvier (xxiii.), and Gottsche (i.vii.) supposed. I Analogous to the ‘ fornix,’ but not homologous with it, as Gottsche contends (lviii. p. 266.) i-ix. In the Sahno Umhla, where they are four in number, Haller called them ‘ corpora quadrigemina : ’ Cuvier, also, regards them as answering to the ‘ corpora quadrigemina ’ of Mammals (xxiii. i. p. 317.), mistaking a relation of analogy for one of homology.