NERVOUS SYSTEM OE FISHES. 181 tricle; the base expanding from between the anterior interspace of the optic lobes, and the apex directed forwards and attached to the roof of the cranium. Some medullary matter mingles with the mem- branous walls of the conarium in the Clupeoid and Cyprinoid Fishes : in some fishes there is grey matter in the conarium: in most it is membranous only, as in the Lepidosiren, Sturgeon, and Shark : in all it is highly vascular. In the Bream the conarium shows an analogous -peculiarity to that of the hypophysis in the Angler, viz., in the length and tenuity of its attachment; but this consists of two distinct crura. The value of the constancy of the hypophysis and conarium consists chiefly in their marking the boundary line between the mes- and pros-encephala, although they belong to the mesencephalon and are both essentially vertical prolongations of the third ventricle through an interspace produced by the divarication of the main lateral columns of the encephalon.* The fasciculi continued forwards from the parietes of the third ventricle or mesencephalic basis, are principally those which may be traced back through the epencephalon to the anterior and lateral myelonal tracts, augmented by fibres from the grey centres or lobes through which they have passed, and retaining a small admixture of post-pyramidal fibres from the optic septum {^Jig. 53, r.).. In Osseous Fishes the two cerebral crura, so constituted, rarely undergo any enlargement, homologous with the ‘ thalami,’ where they form the anterior boundary of the third ventricle; but after a very brief course, as ‘ crura cerebri,’ radiate into two small subspherical ‘prosencephalic’ masses f of grey matter {fig. 53. p.), situated anterior to the optic lobes, and there in great part terminate. A few of the medullary fibres extend along the base of the prosencephalon, receive a small tract of its grey matter, converge to the anterior interspace of its lobes, and either expand there into ‘ rhinencephala ’ {figs. 49,. 50. r)., or are continued forwards and outwards, as ‘ rhinencephalic crura’ {figs. 47. * Is this vertical slit homologous with the encephalic ring perforated by the oesophagus in Invertebrata ? t Influenced by the inapplicability of the term ‘hemispheres’ to parts which are more commonly spheres or spheroids, and to avoid misconception by those who attach to the word ‘ cerebrum’ the idea of the whole brain minus ‘ cerebellum’ and ‘ medulla oblongata,’ or who may restrict the term ‘ cerebral hemispheres ’ to the super-imposed masses of the lateral ventricles in higher Vertebrata, I shall apply the term ‘prosencephalon’ to the constant division of the brain in question, and prosencephalic lobes or prosencephala to its commonly distinct moieties. It is unfortunate for the student of anatomy that, in his introduction to the science by the human structure, he should become acquainted with these parts of the brain under the name of ‘ hemispheres,’ as if they were two halves of an essen- tially spherical whole or single organ. In most Vertebrata the homologous pjirts are presented to our view under a form more agreeable to their true duplex nature, ' N 3