165 MUSCULAR SYSTEM OF FISHES. Caudal mus eles, Macke- ' rel. become insulated from the middle ones, and metamorphosed into a continuous longitudinal muscle 45. a); the change being essen- tially the same as that which the bony segments themselves un- 44a dergo, when by anchylosis the sacral or cranial vertebrae are blended into a continuous longitudinal piece.* In the Mackerel Professor Muller found the middle fibres of the caudal myocommata disposed in two entire cones : jig. 44. a, is a transverse section of the tail to show the two concentric series of cut segments of the sheathed cones, on each side the spine, t In ordinary osseous Fishes the myocommata of one side are separated from those of the opposite side of the body by the vertebrae, by the interneural and interhaemal aponeuroses, and by the abdominal cavity and its proper walls (44, h p). The ventral portions recede from each other to give passage to the ventral fins (v), and the ventral and lateral tracts separate to give passage to the pectoral fins (p). From this part forwards, portions of the myocommata undergo that change, analogous to anchylosis, which justifies their being regarded as distinct longitudinal muscles: here the separated ventral tract (subcoracoideus, d,f) derives a firmer origin from the ossified, though slender ha^mapophysis of the atlas (epicoracoid), when it exists; and, in consequence of the peculiar forward curve of the strong hacmapophysis of the occiput (coracoid), it is not only ex- panded but unusually elongated, in order to be inserted there. But the serial homology of this fasciculus with the more normal ventral portions of the succeeding myocommata, the haemapophysial attach- ments of which have not risen above the aponeurotic state, is unmis- takeable. The lateral portion of the anterior myocomma is attached to the upper end of the coracoid and to the scapula ; the dorsal por- tion to the supra-scapula, iiar-occipital and snpra-occiintal. We recognise the dorsal portion of the posterior cranial myocomma in the fasciculus called ‘ protractor scapulas ’ (^), which extends from the supra-scapula forwards to the parietal and frontal cristas; and the middle portion in that which is exposed by the removal of the operculum, and which extends from the scapula to the mastoid in the. * The continuators of Cuvier group the portions of the myocommata above the lateral line into three longitudinal muscles, compared respectively to the ‘spinalis dorsi,’ ‘longissimus dorsi,’ and ‘ sacro-lumbalisand the portions below the line into two muscles, viz. ‘obliquus abdominis,’ and ‘rectus abdominis.’ (xni. i. pp. 305. 327.) : but Professor Muller has well shown tliat the homologues of thij obliqui abdominis do not exist in Fishes, (xxi. p. 223.) f See XXI. tab. ix. fig. 14. M 3