CHARACTERS OP THE CLASSES OF VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. 19 in the “fretful porcupine,” spines in the hedgehog, scales'^in the manis, bony scutes in the armadillo ; whilst a few species at the two extremes of the series are naked, for example, the whale and the man. Thus far the review of the general anatomical characteristics of the Mammalian class seems not to indicate a very marked superiority: in the energetic contraction of the muscular fibre, in the rapidity of the actions of the heart and lungs. Mammals are surpassed by Birds: but the functions which attain their highest development in the Mammalian class are of far nobler character than those which are more immediately connected with the maintenance of animal life. The progressive expansion of the brain is greatest, and the final pre- dominance of reason over instinct is achieved, in the present class : sensation is its characteristic rather than muscular energy or irrita- bility ; the instincts become more varied, they are also less mechanical and more educable. In Mammalia we first find the cerebral hemi- spheres acquiring an additional extent of the grey and vascular surface by convolutions, which increase in number and depth as the species approximate Man : a fornix first, and then a corpus callosum, are introduced into the Mammalian, brain, to bring into mutual com- munication the various parts of the hemispheres. A new cranial bone, the squamosal, developed from the proximal piece of the man- dibular arch, now, for the first time, takes a share in the forma- tion of the walls of the cranial cavity. The organs of the senses attain their most complex structures in the present class. The ear has a perfect spiral cochlea, and the distinct aiipendage called outer ear. No bony plates are ever developed in the sclerotic coat of the eye. The turbinated bones and pituitary membrane of the nose present in most Mammalia a great, and in some a prodigious extent of surface. The tongue is large, soft, and papillose, and is supplied with a gusta- tory as well as a motor and respiratory nerve. We see the locomotive extremities progressively endowed with more varied and complicated powers. At first retaining, in the Cetacea for example, their primitive embryonic form of simple flattened fins ; they next, with ampler proportions, acquire the full development of the normal joints and segments, and have their extremities enveloped in dense hoofs: next we find the digits liberated, and armed with claws confined to the upper surface, leaving the under surface of the toes free for the exercise of touch : then we have certain digits endowed with special offices, and, by a particular position, enabled to ojipose the others, so as to seize, retain, and grasp : lastly, in Man, the offices of support and locomotion are assigned to a single pair of members, so organised as to sustain the body erect; leaving the