THE SKULL OF OSSEOUS FISHES. 115 the arch, stylo-hyal (pleurapophysis, in part, of the mesencephalic vertebra, fig. 30. 3s) is a slender styliform bone, which is attached at the upper end by ligament to the inner side of the epi-tympanic, close to its junction with the meso-tympanic, and at the lower end to the apex of a triangular plate of bone, which forms the upper portion of the great cornu, or hasmapophysial part of the arch. I apply to this second piece, which is pretty constant in fishes, the name of epi- hyal (ib. 39) : the third longer and stronger piece is the cerato- hyal {ib. 40). The keystone or body of the inverted hyoid arch is formed by two small sub-cubical bones on each side, the basi-hyals {ib. 4i). These complete the bony arch in some fishes : in most others there is a median styliform ossicle, extended forwards from the basi-hyal sym- physis into the substance of the tongue, called the glosso-hyal {ib. 42), or ‘os linguale;’ and another symmetrical, but usually ti’iangular, flattened bone, which expands as it extends backwards, in the middle line, from the basi-hyals ; this is the uro-liyal {ib. 43). It is con- nected with the symphysis of the coracoids, which closes below the fourth of the cranial inverted arches, and it thus forms the isthmus which separates below the two branchial apertures. In the Conger the hyoidean arch is simplified by the persistent ligamentous state of the stylo-hyal, and by the confluence of the basi-hyals with the cerato-hyals: a long glosso-hyal is articulated to the upper part of the ligamentous symphysis, and a long compressed uro-hyal to the under part of the same junction of the hyoid arch. The glosso-hyal is wanting in the Murmnopliis. The Diverging Appendage of the*hyoidean arch retains the form of simple, elongated, slender, slightly curved rays, articulated to de- pressions in the outer and posterior margins of the epi- and cerato- hyals : they are called ‘ brancliiostegals,’ or gill-cover rays, because they support the membrane which closes externally the branchial chamber. The number of these rays varies, and their presence is not constant even in the bony fishes : there are but three broad and flat rays in the Carp ; whilst the clupeoid Elops has more than thirty rays in each gill-cover : the most common number is seven, as in the Cod {fig. 30. 44). They are of enormous length in the Angler, adds a dotted outline of it to complete Ills Veriehra occipitalis, in xxxvnt. tab. xii. Jig. 32. B 1. He had not been prepared by the normal position of the true ha?mal arch of the occiput in fishes, and by the example of the extreme dis]ilacement to which a haimal arch and its appendages may be subject, as in the case of the pelvis and pelvic fin in fishes, to recognise the true hocmapophyses of the occiput in the displaced scapular arch, llojanus considered tlie “ jitcrygoids ” ns the ribs (costa) of the parietal vertebra (i/j. p. G4.). ' I 2