263 VASCULAK SYSTEM OF FISHES. and the last ov pharyngeal arch beset Avith teeth only. In the Ke- inora and many other Fishes, the defensive tubercles on opposite sides of the same brancliial fissure interlock, like the teeth of a cog-wheel. In the Lepidosiren annectens, or Protofterus, short valvular pro- cesses are developed from the sides of those branchial fissures only which lead to the gills, the first and second arches having no gills. In the Conger, all the branchial arches are devoid of defensive fringes or tubercles. The immediate force of the heart’s conti'action is applied by a short and rapidly divided arterial trunk upon the branchial circula- tion. Only in a feiv fishes is the heart removed backwards from the close proximity of the gills, and then the branchial artery is pro- portionally elongated; as in the Eel tribe, especially the Synhran- chidcB-. the artery is long in the 61. s'). The primary branches are always oiiposite and symmetrical, but vary in number in different species. Very commonly, as in the Perch, they are three in number on each side; the first branch dividing to supply the fourth and third gills, the second going to the second, and the third to the first gill. In the Polypterus and Skate there are only tivo primary branches of each side: the first supplies the three posterior gills; the second, formed by a terminal bifurcation of the branchial trunk, supplies the anterior gill in the Polypterus, and in the Skate bifurcates to supply also the uniserial, opercular, or hyoid giU. The Fox-Shark (^Alopias) and the Lepidosteus {Jig. 70.) give examples of four pairs of primary branches from the branchial trunk. In the Shark the first pair come off close together from the dorsal part of the trunk : the arteries of the last pair quickly bifurcate, and thus each of the five branchial fis.sures receives its artery. We saw in the Myxinoids the excep- tional instances of the bifurcation of the branchial trunk by a vertical division into two lateral forks, extended in one species to near its base: the Lepidosteus presents the still rarer example of the trunk being cleft horizontally into an upper and loAver primary division; the upper or dorsal division sends off two branches on each side, the posterior dividing to supply the fourth {Jig. 70, 5) and third (ib. 4) gills, the anterior going to the second gill (ib. 3) : the lower division sends off the pair of arteries to the first pair of gills (ib. 2), then extends forward and bifurcates to supply the uniserial opercular gills {Jig. ].), which are present in this ganoid genus, as in the Sturgeon.* In all osseous fishes the artery of each biserial pec- tinated gill extends along the grooved convexity of the branchial arch, between the bases of tlie processes, exterior to tlio vein : it gives off two branches opposite each pair of processes, Avhicli pass * See Prof. MiiUer’s admirable Memoir, xxv. 8 4