62 LECTURE III. pophyses, as in the cartilaginous Heptanchus, Carcharias, and Alopias. Between the floating ribs extends an aponeurosis, the remains or homologue of the primitive fibi'ous investment of the abdomen in the Lancelot and Lamprey. In the Salmon and Dory the ribs continue to be attached to some of the parapophyses after they are bent down to form the haemal canal and spine in the tail; and we derive the same striking evidence of the true nature of these inferior arches from the skeleton of the Tunny, the Dory, and some other fishes. The costal appendages of the first vertebra of the trunk are usually larger than the rest, and detached from the centrum ; at least if we regard as such the styliform bones 19. 58) which project from the inner side of the scapula3, and which have been described as coracoids (Cuvier) and sometimes as displaced iliac bones (Cams). By the mus- cles attached to these styliform bones the succeeding ribs are drawn forwards and the abdomen expanded in the Cyprinoids. Pleura- pophyses are entirely absent in the Sun-fish, Globe-fish (Diodon), the 'fetrodon, the Pipe-fish {Fistularia and Syngnathus), the Lump- fish and the Angler. This of all osseous, or rather semi-osseous, fishes presents the simplest vertebral column : the abdominal ver- tebrae are not only devoid of ribs, but have the feeblest rudiments of parapophyses. The bodies of these vertebrae interlock at their lower and lateral parts by a short angular process fitting into a notch in the next vertebra; the lower border of this notch repre- sents the lower transverse process in other fishes: it is obsolete in the anterior abdominal vertebrae ; begins to appear about the middle ones ; shows its true character in the tenth; and elongates, bending downwards, backwards, and inwards, to coalesce with its fellow, and form the haemal arch at the twelfth or thirteenth vertebra, from whi(fii the haemal spine is developed. The interlocking process of the anterior vertebra disappears as the true inferior transverse process is increased. The side of the neural arch is perforated for the nerve, and that of the haemal arch for the blood-vessel.* The anterior abdominal vertebrae of the Tetrodon are more firmly clamped together by the parapophyses than in the Angler. A vegetative sameness of form prevails in Fishes throughout the vertebral column of the trunk, which is made up of only two- kinds of vertebrae, characterised by the direction of the parapophyses : • The gelatino-cartilaginous basis is progressively but continuously ossified around these foramina, which form part of a vast series of exceptions to the so- called “ loi de conjugaison ” of M. Serres; who, by this phrase, expresses Ins notion that every foramen is formed, like those that give passage to the spinal nerves in Mammalia, by the approximation of two notches of two distinct bones or bony elements.