137 DERMAL BONES OF FISHES. parietal, tlie mastoid, and the pre-opercular, as well as the turbinate, the sub-orbital, and the supra-temporal bones, offer this modification of their outer surface. The same correspondence in the pattern of the exterior markings usually prevails in all these bones, and is very conspicuous in some fishes; as in the bold net-work and deep depres- sions of the surface, observable in the Pristipoma and some bciasnoids; and in the entirely exposed, enamelled, and shagreened surface of the same bones, together with the maxillary arches, in the Polypterus. This correspondence of exterior character, though it diminishes the contrast between the endo- and exo-skeleton bones of the skull, does not destroy their distinction. In certain parts of fishes the endo- and exo-skeletons are so connected together that we can scarcely find the boundary line in nature; yet the advantage to the Osteologist of classifying the multiform subjects of his study according to their typical characters must not, therefore, be abandoned. Guided by the skull of the Lepidosiren, and by the light of the general homology of the opercular bones as diverging appendages of the tympano-mandibular arch, I consider the pre-opercular, sub- opercular, and inter-opercular bones to be parts of the endo-skeleton. Tlie opercular bone is very constantly represented by the lai-ge dermal plate in the Sturgeon, which M. Agassiz regards as being, with the supra-scapular dermal plate, an anterior continuation of the lateral series of dermal scales. There is also a small dermal plate upon the opercular flap, below the large opercular plate, and which small plate might be regarded as the homologue of the sub-opercular bone. All the four opercular bones forming the diverging appendage of the tympano-mandibular arch were deemed by Cuvier to be peculiar ichthyic super-additions to the ordinary vertebrate skeleton; whilst by Spix, Geoffroy, and De Blainville they are held to be modiflcations of parts which exist in the endo-skeleton of other Vertebrata. The learned Professor of Comparative Anatomy in King’s College, who regards this as “ the more philosophical mode of considering them,” * has briefly stated the homologies proposed by the supporters of this view, viz. that the opereular bones are gi- gantic representatives of the ossieles of the ear (Spix, Geoffroy, Dr. Grant j") : or that they are dismemberments of the lower jaw (Dc Blainville, Bojanus), — a view refuted by the discovery of the complicated structure of the lower jaw in ecrtain fishes, e. <j. Sudis, 38.), which likewise possess the opercular bones : thirdly, that they are parts of the dermal skeleton ; in short, scales modifled * Professor Ilymer Jones, General Outline of tlie Animal Kingdom, 8vo. 1841, p. 509. ' f Lectures, Lancet, Jan. 11. 1834, p. 573. ; Outlines of Comp. Anat. p. 64.