IG INTRODUCTORY LECTURE. later secondary periods was so dank and dense, and overloaded with irrespirable elements, as to need the precipitation of so much carbon as has been consolidated in our coal-fields and chalk-hills, before it was fitted for the full development and vital enjoyment of the warm- blooded and quick-breathing classes? But these and other consi- derations suggested by the successive introduction of water-breathing and slow air-breathing Vertebrates, would lead us too far away from the proper subject of the present elementary discourse. Suffice it to say, that the oviparous class of animals which next makes its ap- pearance in the order of Creation, is remarkably characterised by the energy of the circulating and respiratory functions, and by the high temperature of the body. I allude to the class Aves, characterised as accurately, as brieffy, by the name of “ feathered bipeds: ” bipeds, because the anterior members are exclusively organised for flight; feathered, because the body which is to soar in air must be lightly clad, and yet warmly clad,— must be covered by most efficient non- conductors, so as to retain that elevated temperature which is the necessary consequence of the organic combustion of so raucli mus- cular and nervmus fibre in the energetic actions of flight. But Birds enjoy almost every kind of locomotion : a few (Apteryx) burrow in the earth: some (Ostrich, Rhea) traverse its surface as swiftly as the most rapid courser; many climb trees: an entire Order is aquatic, swimming or diving with facility. The legs and feet of Birds are accordingly variously modified for these different powers, and furnish the Naturalist with excellent characters for the primary divisions of the class. The lungs are now divided into very minute cells, pro- ducing a vast extent of the vascular respiratory membrane ; they also communicate with lai'ger cells, forming capacious reservoirs of air, which are continued through every part of the body, even into the substance and cavities of the bones. The heart is divided into four chambers, two muscular ventricles and two auricles; a single artery arises from each ventricle, and a complete double circulation is es- tablished,—the left auricle and ventricle circulating the arterial blood, the right aui-icle and ventricle the venous, transmitting to the lungs the entire mass of the carbonized blood. The blood is of a deep but bright vermilion red, and richly laden with the discoid cells, which are elliptical, but smaller than in the Beptilia (Jiff. 4. c). The jaws of Birds ai’e always edentulous and sheathed with horn, of divers configurations, adapted to their different modes of life and kinds of food. The head is small, and supported upon a long neck ; the mandibles performing most of those purposes for which the anterior members, by their conversion into Avings, are unfitted; so that the beak combines the functions of hand and mouth. The