182 LECTURE vm. 51. 55. z), to form tlie olfactory lobes, or ganglia {ib. r), at some distance from the brain. Although the prosencephalic lobes are com- monly in contact with the optic lobes, yet something analogous to the displacement of the rhinencephala may be seen in the prosence- phala of the Polypterus and Lepidosiren, in which the procense- phalic crura advance some way before they expand into the prosen- cephala : in the Plagiostomes, also, the prosencephalic crura {Jig. 55. x) have a short independent course in advance of the optic lobes. The prosencephala are distinguished from the optic lobes by their grey pinkish exterior, and, generally, also by their fissured or nodu- lated surface. The first of these characters must be looked for in recent fish : the second is more permanent, and may be seen in the preparations of the brain of theEel(v^w^^^^7/a acutirostris, No. 1309,B.); of the Lump-fish ( Cyclopterus, No. 1309, C'.) ; of the Gurnard ( Trigla lyra, No. 1309, D') ; and especially in the specimen of the brain of the Cod (No. 1309), which Hunter truly, though briefly, describes as follows: — “ The cerebrum fissured ; the cerebellum a long projecting body, also fissured in a less degree; the nates two projecting bodies : the optic nerves decussate one another.” This is the earliest recog- nition of the homology of the optic lobes with the anterior of the bigeminal bodies of the human brain. With regard to the ‘ cerebrum’ of the Cod, a median tract or convolution is marked off by a longi- tudinal fissure, which extends along the back of each prosencei)halon, defining also a posterior and inferior convolution ; the median con- volution is vertically fissured on its inner side. In the Amblyopsis (y?^. 50. p) it is cleft anteriorly; and here, as in most fishes, the median longitudinal tract is the most constant subdivision of the prosencephalic superficies. The large elongated prosencephala are smooth in Polypterus and Le- pidosiren {Jig. 54. p), and in the still more developed confluent mass 54 in the Sharks {Jig. 55. p) ; the pro- sencephala are, also, smooth in the Myxines, where they are relatively smallest. The comparative ana- tomists, who have failed to recog- nise the true homology of the pro- sencephalon in Osseous Fishes, appear to have been misled chiefly by its small proportional size, which is commonly that exhibited in these preparations of the brain of the Cod {Jig. 53, p), the Carp, and the Globe- fish *; in some species the prosencephalon is still smaller, as in the Gar-fish, the Herring {Jig. 52, p), or the Lump-fish. The prosencephalon Brain of Lepidosiren. * The preparations exhibited and here alluded to are those numbered 1309, 1309 A, 1309 m.