288 LECTURE XII. capsule or ‘ tunica albuginea,’ and a peritoneal covering : the capsule sends many ‘septa’ into the testes; and the lobes thus formed consist chiefly of the tuhuli testis, and their expanded cell- like extremities, filled with the spermatozoa: the convolutions of the ‘tuhuli’ are plainly discernible in the portion of the testis of the great Basking Shark preserved in No. 2396. A. Numerous ‘ vasa eflerentia’ convey the ‘ semen’ to the beginning of the ‘ vas deferens’* which forms a large ‘ epididymis’ (ib. b) by its manifold convolutions. These gradu- ally decrease as the duct (e) approaches the cloaca, when it becomes straight, and expands into an elongated reservoir (ib. /), the mucous surface of which is commonly increased by numerous trans- verse pliciE (Selache.) Behind the termination of the rectum the ‘vasa deferentia’ suddenly diminish, approximate, communicate with the ureters, and terminate upon the rudimental cloacal penis (ib. g, k, and prep. 2396.). The claspers (ib. m) are present in the Chimje- Fishes as well as in the Plagiostomes. They project backwards as appendages to the bases of the anal fins, and are sometimes bent inwards at their free ex- tremities. Near this part may be discerned a fissure which is the outlet of a blind sac extending forwards from the base of the clasper beneath the muscles and skin, at the sides of the cloaca. The inner surface of the cavity is smooth, and lubricated by a fluid mucus: the attached vascular surface is richly supplied with ves- sels, especially with veins: in the Bays a glandular body adds its secretion to that of the surface of the cavity. FEMALE ORGANS. The gradations of structure of the female organs correspond very closely with those of the male. In the young Lamprey the ovarium is a simple longitudinal membranous plate, suspended by a fold of the peritoneum (mesoarium) along the under part of the vertebral column : it increases in breadth and thickness as the ova are deve- loped in it, and still more so in length, being accommodated to its locality by numerous folds {Jig. 74. c). But no superadditions are made to this primitive structure : the ova {d) escape by ruptui’e of their ♦ CXXXIV.