AIB-BLADDEE OF FISHES. 277 in the higher organised species above-cited, with short and wide air- ducts, these may, likewise, convey air to the bladder. The contents of the air-bladder consist, in most fresh-water fishes, of nitrogen, and a very small quantity of oxygen, with a trace of carbonic acid gas : but in the air-bladders of sea-fishes, and espe- cially of those which frequent great depths, oxygen predominates. * In the genera Attchenipterus, Synodon, Malapterurus, and some other Siluroids, the axis vertebra sends out on each side a slender process, which expands at its end into a large round plate ; this is applied to the side of the air-bladder, and can be made to press upon it, and expel the air through the duct by the action of a small muscle arising from the skull. In some species of Gadus muscular fibres extend from the vertebral column upon the air-bladder. The nerves of the air-bladder are derived from the vagus after it has received organic fibres from the sympathetic {fig- 58. £). Viewing the general modifications and relations of the air-bladder thi-oughout the class of fishes, we cannot but discern and admit, not- withstanding some seeming capricious varieties, that its chief and most general function is a mechanical one, serving to regulate the specific gravity of the fish, to aid it in maintaining a particular level in its element, and to rise or sink as occasion may serve. The general law of its absence in the parasitic and suctorial Dermopteri, and in aU ground-fishes, as the PleuronectidcB and Ray-tribe, supports the above conclusion. Borelli found that those fishes, whose air- bladders were burst, sank to the bottom and were unable to rise. Nor does the absence of the air-bladder in the surface-swimming Sharks militate against this view of its physical function: for though the air-bladder serves, it also enslaves. It opposes, for example, those fishes that possess it in their endeavours to turn on one side, and it demands a constant action of the balancing fins to prevent that complete upsetting of the body which it oc- casions from the weight of the superimposed vertebral column and muscles when life and action are extinct. The Sharks re- quire, by the position of their mouth and their common pursuit of living prey, freedom in turning and great variety as well as great power of locomotion : if they are not aided by a swim-bladder, neither are their muscular exertions impeded by one; whilst their swimming organs acquire that degree of development and force • Humboldt found the gas in the air-bladder of the electric Gymnotus to con- sist of 96° of nitrogen and 4° of oxygen. Biot found 87° of oxygen in some of the deep-sea Mediterranean fishes, the rest nitrogen, with a trace of carbonic acid. No hydrogen has ever been detected in the air-bladders of fishes. f cxxix. caj). 23.