VASCULAR SYSTEM OP FISHES. 253 ‘ precaval ’ trunk. A corresponding precaval trunk is formed in the same ivay on the left side, and the great auricular sinus is con- stituted by these and by the wide hepatic veins, which contract before they terminate. In many Osseous Fishes, as Scilmo, Silurus, Belone, Anguilla, Ammodytes, and Accipenser, the hepatic veins tei’minate in the common sinus by a single trunk ; in others, as Tliynnus, Gadus, Esox, and Pleiironectes, by two trunks; and in a few Fishes, as Clupea, Coitus, and certain Cyprinoids, by three or more trunks. Thus in Fishes the chyle, having already begun to manifest its independent life by the development of distinct microscopic granular corpuscles, as primitive centres of assimilative force, before it enters the lacteals, undergoes in those vessels and their receptacles a fur- ther stage of conversion into blood by the reaction and, as it were, impregnation of the lymph, and by the interchange of properties therewith : the vitalising stimulus of which interchange and reaction is manifested by the repeated spontaneous fission of the corpuscles, many of which now acquire a capsule, and thus become nuclei of cells. Then the mixed chyle and chyme enter the veins, where a further interchange of properties with the venous blood and a new course of action and reaction take place. The primitive pale chyle- corpuscles are here few in number; they have a capsule, and the granular character of their contents shows them to be in the course of change : a centre of superior assimilating force has already begun to establish itself amongst them, and to grow at their expense. * THE HEART. The venous blood undergoes some change, probably, in its passage through the kidneys, by virtue of the anastomoses of the renal vaseular system : it undergoes further cliange in its circulation through the liver, in so far as the bile, a fluid highly charged with carbon and hydrogen, is eliminated from it: it is said that in some fishes (Myxine, Bdellostoma') a contractile receptacle accelerates its course through the portal circulation. The venous blood has finally to be submitted to the influence of the atmosphere, and especially to the * Most of the stages analogous to those demonstrated by Dr. Martin Barry (evil.), in the first periods of development of the mammiferous ovum, have been recognised in the corpuscles of chyle, lymph, and blood. The powers of one series of granules, the progeny of a primary centre, arc concentrated in a secondary nucleus, which ab.sorbs them as they liijucfy ; developes itself at their expense, generates a second series of granules, which, in their turn, give way to subserve a third regeneration of aggregated but distinct spherular centres of force ; the final purpose of the successive development, li(|uefaction, and assimilation of the inde- pendent granular centre.s, being apparently to concentrate their vital energy in the form ultimately assumed, as coloured blood-discs. The shape and relative size of these particles are shown \n fig. 4. p. 1 (i, in a plagiostomous fish at /i, in a typical osseous fish at g ; the blood-discs of the Lamprey are circular. — Sec the admirable IMemoir on the Development of Blood-discs, exxvii.