191 NERVOUS SYSTEM OP FISHES. in the Plagiostomi it is reduced to a few thin shining aponeurotic bands closely adherent to the inner surface of the cartilaginous walls of the cranium and spinal canal; such traces of dura mater are more feeble and indistinct in Osseous Fishes, in which no proper continu- ous fibrous membrane can be distinguished from the inner periosteum of the walls of the cerebro-spinal cavity: no curtains of dura mater divide the cerebral from the acoustic compartments of the cranium in the Osseous Fishes. NERVES. The head is short and obtuse in the embryo fish; the ganglionic centres of the olfactory nerves are always originally developed in close contiguity with the prosencephalon ; they govern the develop- ment of the rhinencephalic arch; and, as this advances in the elonga- tion of the skull, and recedes from the prosencephalic arch, either the brain is co-elongated, the rhinencephalon retaining its primitive relation with its vertebra, and the prolonged crura occupying the narrow interorbital tract of the cranial cavity; or, the rhinencephalon retains its primitive juxtaposition with the prosencephalon, and the olfactory nerves are prolonged through the interorbital space, per- forate or traverse a notch in the prefrontals, and expand, as a resolved plexus, upon the pituitary plicated sac. The rhinenceplialon accompanies its vertebra and recedes from the rest of the brain in Salmo, Cyprinus proper, Brama, Tinea, Gadus, Lota, Hippoglossus, Clupea, Belone, Lucioperca, Cobitis, the Plectog- nathi, and Plagiostomi; it retains its primitive contiguity with the prosencephalon in Perea, Scomber, Esox, Pleuronectes, Blennius, Anguilla, Cyclopterus, Gasterosteus, Eperlanus, Leuciscus, Cottus, Trigla, Amblyopsis, Echeneis, the Ganoidei and Lepidosiren. The condition of this difference would be uninteresting subject of enquiry. As the crus of the rhinencephalon is formed not only of fibres con- tinued from the prosencephalon, but also, and in some fishes chiefly, of distinct white and grey tracts traceable along the base of the mesencephalon, in part as far back as the prepyramidal bodies, so the origin of the olfactory nerve has been described as characterised by the same complexity and extent; and it is true that in some instances, where the rhinencephalon is in contact with the prosencephalon, a small portion of the true olfactory nerve may be distinctly traced, e. g. in the Perch, backwards as far as the mesencephalon : just as we find in some fishes. Sturgeon, e. g., a portion of the optic nerve trace- able as far back as the cerebellum, and in the Eel to the hypoaria, and not exclusively terminating in the optic lobe. Most of the cha- racteristics of origin and course attributed in works of Comparative