THE SKULL OF OSSEOUS FISHES. 95 nerves. The ali-splienoid articulates in the Cod with the petrosal posteriorly, with the orbito-sphenoid anteriorly, and with the mastoid and post-frontal above. Where the ali-sphenoids have a greater relative size, as in the Perch, and where the less constant petrosal decreases or disappears, their connections are more extensive ; they then reach the ex-occipitals, and sometimes even join a small part of the basi-occipital. In the incompletely ossified skulls of some fishes, e. g. the Pike and the Salmon tribe, the basal and lateral cranial bones are lined by cartilage, which forms the medium of union between them, especially the lateral ones: in better ossified fishes, e. g. the Cod, the union of the ali-sphenoids is by suture, partly dentated, partly squamous. In the Cod the second and third di- visions of the trigeminal nerve pass out of the cranium by the an- terior notch; in some other fishes they escape by foramina in the ali-sphenoid: a part of the vestibule and the anterior semicircular canal of the acoustic labyrinth usually encroach upon its inner con- cavity, whence some have deemed it to be the petrous bone.* The parietals (spine of mesencephalic arch, figs. 30. 32. 7), which complete above the osseous cincture of the most expanded segment of tlie brain in fishes, are most commonly two in number; in the Cyprinoid {fig. 35. 7) and Salamandroid fishes they meet and unite by a sagittal suture ; in the Salmonoids they soon coalesce; and in some Siluroids not only with each other but also with the supra-occipital: in the Pike, the Perch, the Cod, and most osseous fishes, the parietals are separated from one another by the anterior prolongation of the supra-occipital. They are always flat, and present much smaller proportions than in the higher classes of Vertebrata. They are commonly articulated to the mastoids outwardly and below, to the supra-occipital above, to the frontal before, and fco the par-occipital behind ; sometimes, but rarely to the ali-sphenoids, and in a few fishes, as the Pike and Gurnard, where the parietals are more than usually developed, they appear upon the liinder as well as the upper surface of the skull. In some fishes they are perforated by the nervus lateralis which supplies the ver- tical fins. The left parietal is broader than the right in the Holibut and some other flat fishes {Pleuronectidai). The parietals are ossified in and from the perichondrium and continuous membrane closing the great fontanelle of the primitive cartilaginous cranium. Tlie mastoids (parapophyses of the parietal vertebra, ih. 8) bear • As, c. g. Meckel, Wagner and Hallman (Vergleichende Ostcologie dcs Selilufcnbeines, p. 55.). Kiistlin, who approves of tills view, givc.s, however, the name of posterior all-sphenoid (hintern schliifen-llugel, xxxv, p. 315.) to the petrosal.