135 DERMAL BONES OF PISHES. K 4 supra-cranial movable plates 27. 12) are the only bones of the head of the Lepidosiren which can be referred, with any probability, to the dermal system. It is plain that the subjacent epicranial plate 27. 11) in close connection with the cartilage of the cranium, is a true part of the endo-skeleton, and is as certainly the homologue of the mid-frontal, parietal, and supra-occipital bones. In the de- velopment of the skull of Osseous Fishes it is found, however, that, whilst the central or basilar, the neurapophysial, and the parapophy- sial elements of the cranial vertebrte are developed out of a pre- existing cartilaginous basis, the modified spinous elements, with the exception of that of the occipital vertebra, are formed by the depo- sition of the calcareous salts in the epicranial membrane; and Dr. Reichert, apparently not remembering that the cartilaginous, or in- termediate histological, change between the primitive membranous and ultimate osseous stage has been as little recognised in the de- velopment of the epicranial bones of Man, would reject the parietal and frontal bones from the system of the endo-skeleton. To those who may be inclined to support this view, by reference to the epicranial dermal plates in the species of Sturgeon where their correspondence with the mid-frontal and parietal bones may be most easily recognised, it may be replied, that the pre-frontals, post- frontals, mastoids, and supra-occipitals, might also be referred to the exo-skeleton, by a like reference to dermal plates holding the corre- sponding positions in the Sturgeon’s head : but the skeleton of the Lepidosiren, with the known relations of the pre-frontals, post-fron- tals, mastoids, and supra-occipitals to the pi’imitive cartilaginous basis of the skull in Osseous Fishes, demonstrate the fallacy of the conclu- sions as to the dermal origin of the frontals and parietals, based upon the deceptive analogies of the dermo-cranial plates in the Sturgeon, and upon the absence or brief duration of the cartilaginous stage in the ossification of certain expanded spines of the cranial vertebrm. That the homologues of some of the dermal plates in the Sturgeon are retained in the skull of Osseous Fishes is, however, rendered extremely probable by the constancy of their relative position, by their development in a dermal basis, and by their relation to the dermal mucous canals. The accessary bones of the skull in Osseous Fishes, which I regard, on the above grounds, as appertaining to the exo-skeleton, and which arc more especially connected with the mucous organs of the skin, are the suh-orhilal, the syqjra-orhital, and tlie supra-lemporal ossicles. The first sul)-oi’bital bone {Jig- 19. 73) is always tlic largest : it is triangular in llie Cod, and covers the side of the muzzle, extending from the fore part of the oi’bit to the anterior end of