AIR-BLADDER OF FISHES. 279 by the pulmonary veins (ib. p, p"'). A mixed venous and arterial blood is tlience distributed to tlie system, and again to the air-bladders. True arterial blood exists only in the pulmonary veins, and unmixed venous blood only in the system of the venm cavm ; whence the ne- cessity, apparently, for that peculiar arrangement by which the ar- terial blood is conveyed directly to the ventricle by the pulmonary vein. When the Lepidosiren resumes its true position as a fish, the bran- chial circulation is vigorously resumed, a larger proportion of arterial- ised blood enters the aorta, and both the nervous and muscular systems receive the additional stimulus and support requisite for the maintenance of their energetic actions. Anatomists and physiologists are not yet unanimous as to the ho- mologies and analogies of the respiratory organs of fishes. Indeed the essential distinction of those relations has seldom been clearly kept in view. When we read in the latest edition of the Comparative Anatomy of Cuvier : “the gills are the lungs of animals absolutely aquatic*;” and, with regard to the cartilaginous or osseous supports of the gills, “ they are in our opinion, to the gills of fishes, what the cartilaginous or osseous tracheal rings are to the lungs of the three superior classesfwe are left in doubt whether it is meant that the gills and their mechanical supports merely perform the same function in fishes which the lungs and windpipe do in mammals, or whether they are not also actually the same parts differently modified in re- lation to the difierent respiratory media of the two classes. Geolfroy St. Hilaire leaves no doubt as to his meaning where he argues that the branchial arches of fishes are the modified tracheal rings of the air-breathing classes ; we perceive that he is enunciating a rela- tion of homology. The truth of his proposition will be best tested by first considering the homologies of the air-bladder of fishes. Dr. Peters, iProf. Hyrtl, and others, who have prosecuted the anatomy of the Lepidosiren since Dr. Bischoff advocated its rep- tilian nature, have confirmed my previous determination of that genus to the class of fishes : and it may be presumed that its gela- tinous chorda dorsalis, its vertebral inferior transverse processes (parapophyses), the normal attachment of the scapulce to the occiput, the branchiostegal covering of the permanent gills, the opercular bones, the absence of pancreas, the presence of a spiral intestinal valve, the relative position of the anus, the extra-oral nasal sacs, the * “ Les branchies sont les poumons des animaux absolumcnt aquatiques.” (xiii. t. vii, p. 164.) ■f Klles sont, a notre avis, aux branchies des jioissons, ce que les cerccnux carti- lagineux ou osscux des voies aeriennes sont aux poumons des trols classes suiie- rieures.” (Ib. p. 177.)