LECTURE VII. 166 Perch (j) ; and, in some fishes, also, from the aponeurotic septum between the branchial and abdominal cavity, to the lateral and lower parts of the cranium. The protractor scapulas in the Skate and Torpedo (45. i) is of considerable length, in consequence of the back- ward displacement of the scapular arch (s), and of great strength, by reason of the enormous pectoral appendage which the arch sustains. The representatives of dorsal and middle portions of a second cranial myocomma, in the Perch, are seen in the protractor tympani (44. k) and in the retractor maxillm (m): a lower parallel subquadrate por- tion of the same segment passes from the preoperculum and tympanic pedicle to the coronoid process of the lower jaw, and forms the ‘ levator mandibulge ’ {n). A cephalic continuation of the ventral segments of the myocommata is recognisable in the fasciculus which passes for- wards in part (g) directly from the subcoracoideus in part (/') from the coracoid itself, to the basi- and uro-hyals, and which, if it does not perform, as Cuvier states, all the functions of the sterno-hyoid, represents the muscle to which that name is given in higher vertebrata, and proves it to be, in its general homology, the ventral segment of a cranial myocomma. Other dismemberments of the cranial myocommata are modified to act specially upon the branchial arches : one of these fasciculi is the branchi-depressor (o) : it rises from the basi-hyal, and passes obliquely backwards to be inserted into the pharyngeal or last branchial arch: two other fasciculi rise from the coracoid, and converge to be similarly- inserted, forming the branchi-retractores (p, q). Several small fasciculi from the sides of the cranium are inserted into the epibranchials and the first two phai-yngo-branchials, forming the branchi-levatores (r). There are also several transverse and oblique muscles, peculiar to the branchial arches. The ventral portion of the most anterior of the myocommata extends between the apex of the hyoidean and that of the mandibular arches: Cuvier recognises its special homo- logy with the genio-hyoideus {h) : it protracts the hyoid arch ; it retracts the mandibular arch; and, when the lower jaw is left free to move upon the tympanic pedicle, it depresses the ja-w. There is no digastricus or proper depressor of the mandible in Fishes. A strong muscle (1) from the postfrontal is inserted into the pterygoid; and partly through that, and partly by direct insertion into the pre- tympanic, it raises and protracts the tympanic pedicle. The oper- culum, or fin of the tympanic pedicle, has a levator or extensor {k) and a depressor muscle; the one rises from the mastoid, the other from the petrosal or alisphenoid. In the Angler each of the long rays of the branchiostegal fin has