THE SKELETON. 21 vascular; they grow by the addition of layers to their circumference, or they may be cast off when too small for the growing body, and be reproduced of a more conformable size; but they have no inherent power of repair. The internal bones of the Vertebrata are vascular ; they grow by internal molecular addition and change, and have the power of repair- ing fracture or other injury. Such are the broad and obvious distinctive characters of the skeletons of the Invertebrate and Vertebrate animals ; the contrasts having relation chiefly to the difference in the development of the nervous system. Thus, when the powers of discerning and avoiding lethal or hurtful agencies are dull and contracted, the entire animal is protected by a hard insensible dermal armour, or exo-skeleton ; but, as those powers become expanded and quickened, the body is disencumbered of its coat of mail, the skeleton is put inside, and made subservient to the activities, and the skin becomes proportionally more susceptible of outward impressions of pleasure and pain. Some estimable anatomists, who have more especially devoted their attention to the detection of the corresponding parts in different ani- mals, have supposed that these different functions were performed by modifications of essentially the same or homologous parts of the skeleton. Observing that a segment of the outer skeleton of an articulate animal, the thoracic ring of a lobster for example 5.), formed a small canal (e s) for the nervous trunks, and a larger one {li) for the vascular trunks and plastic organs; and that a thoracic segment of the skeleton of a Vertebrate animal 6.) also formed a small protecting canal for the spinal chord (c, ns\ and a larger hoop (c, lis) about the vascular and other viscera of that cavity,—they have con- cluded that both were modifications of the same elements or primary segment of the skeleton. Cams, for instance (No. i. p. 73.), calls both rings “ vertebras;” and Geoffroy St. Hilaire (ir. p. 119. pi. 7.) thought it needed but to reverse the position of the Crustacean, — to turn what had been wrongly deemed the belly upwards, — in order- Segment of exo-skeleton, Astacus. Segment of endo-skeleton, Mammal.