235 DIGESTIVE SYSTEM OF FISHES. t XCII. p. 120. * J. Hunter, xcii. p. 12C. peculiar.* The pyloric portion of the stomach is very muscular in the Indian Wliiting {Johnius\ and in some species of Scomber: but the modification which gives the stomach the true character of a gizzard is best seen in the Mullets {MugiV). The cardiac poi'tion here forms a long cul de sac; the pyloric part is continued from the cardiac end of this at right angles, and is of a conical figure externally; but the cavity within is reduced almost to a linear fissure by the great development of the muscular parietes, which are an inch thick at the base of the cone ; and this part is lined by a thick horny epithelium (prep. 502). In the Herring the ductus pneumaticus of the swim- bladder is continued from the attenuated extremity of the cardie end of the stomach. In the Basking-shark the contracted pyloric division of the stomach {fig. 65. _/) communicates by a narrow aperture with a second small rounded cavity (f\ which opens by a narrow pylorus into the short and capacious duodenum {g). These are the observed extremes of the modifications of the sto- mach in Fishes, which it will be seen, therefore, are far from accord- ing or parallelising those of the dental system. There is often, in- deed, no essential difference of form in the stomach of a fish with exclusively laniary teeth, e. g. the carnivorous Salmon, and in that of one with exclusively molar teeth, e. g. the herbivorous Carp. The ^tobates, whose teeth form a crushing pavement, has a stomach similar in shape and size to that in the common Ray, in which every tooth is eonical and sharp pointed. The inner surface of the stomach presents few modifications in Fishes ; it is usually smooth; rarely reticulate, as in the Gymnotus (prep. 500.); still more rarely papillose. The lining membrane is thi’own into wavy longitudinal rugae in the cardiac portion of the stomach of most Sharks. The gastric follicles are conspicuous, especially in the pyloric portion of the stomach in many Fishes, as, e. g., the Gurnards, Blennies, and Lump-suckers. The circular py- loric valve is commonly well developed and has sometimes a fim- briated margin. The solvent power of the gastric secretion is conspicuously exemplified in Fishes : if a voracious species be cap- tured after having swallowed its prey, the part lodged in the stomach is usually found more or less dissolved, whilst that which is in the oesophagus is entire; and, in specimens dissected some hours after death, one may observe, what Hunter so well describes, “ the di- gesting part of the stomach itself reduced to the same dissolved state as the digested part of the food.”f This surrender of the dead membranes of the stomach to the solvent power of the pre- viously secreted gastric juice is well exem^ilified in the preparation of tlie Shark’s stomach, N. 507. c.