180 LECTURE VIII. ganglions (‘ hypoaria,’ fig. 53. 71) * : their bulk is increased by added grey matter, which variegates their outer surface; they are well developed in the common Cod, in which, as in some other fishes, they contain a cavity called ‘ hypoarian ventricle.’ In some Salmo- nidce their surface is striated; in some Cyprinidce (Tench) they are confluent; but commonly they are distinct, and have in their inferior interspace a vascular medullary depressed sac (the ‘ hcema- tosac,’ fig. 53. o), usually oblong, as in the Cod, rarely bifid or cordi- form, as in the Lump-fish. These prominences from the floor of the mesencephalon, posterior to the infundibulum and hypophysis, are peculiar to the brain of fishes, and, in their full development, are restricted to the typical osseous member of the class ; they are absent in the lowest, and disappear in the highest orders; they are mere rudiments, or are wanting, in the Polypterus, as in the still more amphibidid Lepidosiren. The true vasculo-membranous infundibular downward prolongation of the third ventricle exists in all osseous Fishes, and extends from the anterior angle of the hypoaria where these exist: the infun- dibulum is commonly short and thick, so that the hypophysis is almost sessile, as in the Cod ; but in the Lophius, the infundibulum is longer than the entire brain, and the hypophysis lies at the fore-part of the cranial cavity, far in advance of the cerebral lobes, f In the Cod the hypophysis {fig. 53. p) is a sub-spherical mass with an irregular or slightly nodulated surface, almost half the size of the human, so called, ‘pituitary gland,’ and well exemplifies the vast propor- tional suae of this constant appendage to the brain of Fishes. In the Lepidosiren the infundibulum is wide, and the hypophysis a white flattened discoid body {fig. 54. y»)4 In all fishes it is richly supplied with vessels, and is closely attached to the floor of the cranium; but, although its early development checks or modifies that of the cranial vertebrge, it is not provided with a special chamber or ‘ sella.’ The prolongations of the fibres from the mesencephalon which expand into the prosencephalic or proper cerebral lobes rarely show any preliminary development of ‘thalami;’ but the parts homologous with those recruiting ganglia are constantly indicated by the attach- ment of the conarium, or upper prolongation of the third ventricle. The conarium {figs. 50. 54, 55. %v) is as constant an appendage of the encephalon in Fishes, as the hypophysis; but is commonly only a vasculo-membranous pyramidal sac continued from the third ven- * Analogous to the ‘ corpora mammillaria ’ of the human brain, but not homo- logous with them, as Arsaki (liii,), and Desmoulins (lxxviu.) supposed. Cuvier defines them as the ‘ lobes inferieurs,’ xxm. i. p. 318. f LX. p. 56. t. ii. fig. 1. t The hypophysis is marked g in xxxiii. pi. 27. fig. 4., and is called 'mam- millary body’ in Lepidosiren annectens, ib. p.361.