71 THE SKULL OF FISHES. therefore, may be said to be eomposed of the primitive continuous fibro-gelatinous basis of the vertebral bodies, and of the membrane which is represented by our ‘ dura mater,’ without the superaddition of cartilaginous or osseous coverings. But if we were to limit our view of the skull of the Brancliiostoma by this primitive embryonic condition of the cranium proper, we should have an incomplete idea of it. A large, jointed, cartilaginous haemal arch 46. li) extends on each side, from below the cranial end of the chorda dorsalis, downwards and backwards to the orifice of the pharynx; this represents the labial arch of higher Myxinoids, and it supports the jointed slender oral filaments, which may be regarded as a continued representation, in the Vertebrate series, of the cephalic tentacula of the Cephalopods. It is the sole chondrified part of the skeleton in the Brancliiostoma, a fact which must be borne in mind if we would avoid the common error of supposing the neural ver- tebral column to be the first and only rudiment of an internal skeleton in the lower Yertebrata. Before proceeding to the next stage at which cranial development is arrested in the ascending series of Vertebrata, I may briefiy de- scribe the form under which the cartilaginous tissue is superinduced upon the fibrous brain-sac in osseous fishes, according to the obser- vation of M. Vogt on the embryo of one of the Salmonidm (Core- gonus, xxn. tom. i. p. 3.). The chorda dorsalis advances as far as the pituitary sac, or ‘ hypophysis cerebri,’ where it terminates in a point; cartilage is developed on each side of the chorda, forming a thick occipito-sphenoidal mass*, which extends outwards, and en- velopes the sac of the internal ear, forming the ear-ball or acoustic cap- sule. The cartilage rises a little way upon the lateral walls of the cra- nium, and is there insensibly lost in the primitive cranial membrane. At the end of the chorda, the basal cartilages diverge, surround the pituitary vesicle, and meet, in front of it, to join or be expanded in the prespheiioid pla.te'f: these arches I term “ sphenoidal.” (Jig. 24.) 24 Base olslcull, Ammocclc, Miillcr. side view of skull, AmmocHc, MUIler. * Plaque nuchale, Vogt; Knochernc basis cranii, Miillcr, xxi. t Plaque faciale, Vogt; Gaumenplatte, Miillcr. f Arises laterales, Vogt; Fiugel-fors'dize basis eranii, Miillcr. F 4