195 XERVOUS SYSTEM OF FISHES. muco-ganglionic corpuscles. * In the Sturgeon the snout and its tentacula are supplied by branches of the infra-orbital, not from the supra-orbital division of the fifth: the opercular or facial branch sup- plies, in addition to the gill-cover, the integuments and lips of the protractile mouth, and the pseudo-branchia: it eommunicates with the glosso-pharyngeal. In the Lancelet the fifth nerve {fig- 46. oV) distributes many fila- ments to the expanded sensitive integument which represents the head, and forms the sides of the wide oral opening; it also supplies the oral tentacula. In the Myxinoids the same nerve supplies both the muscles and the integuments of the head, the tentacula, the nasal tube, the mucous membrane of the mouth and tongue, the hyoid and palatal teeth, and the pharynx. The trigeminus supplies the same parts in the Lamprey, but in a more compact manner as it were, i. e. by fewer primary branches: it also sends filaments to the reetus ex- ternus and r. inferior of the eyeball: the nerves to the muscular parts of the jaws and tongue arise in the Lamprey distinct from the fifth, and their trunk may be regarded as a facial nerve; one of the fila- ments of this joins a branch of the vagus to form a short ‘nervus lateralis.’ Thus in reference to the motor filaments of the ti’igeminus or great spinal nerve of the head, those that form the portio dura or facial nerve in higher Vertebrata are not distinct from the rest of the trigeminus at its apparent origin, except in the Lamprey; in which, on the other hand, the motory filaments of the rectus externus, forming the sixth nerve of higher Fishes and Vertebrata, retain an associated origin with the trigeminal. The opercular or facial di- vision of the fifth forms the hindmost portion of its apparent origin in the Perch f, it supplies the mandibular, opercular, and branchios- tegal muscles; and sends off the branch to form, with a branch of the vagus, the dorsal division of the ‘ nervus lateralis.’ In the elongated ‘medulla oblongata’ of the Sander {Lucioperca) the facial nerve has a distinct origin between the trigeminal and acoustic. The acoustic nerve rises so elose to the fifth, in the Skate, as to appear to be a primary branch of that great nerve; its distribution on the labyrinth is beautifully shown by Mr. Swan in Liv. pi. x. fig. 2. It communicates on the great otolithic sac with a motor branch from the vagus, which, after giving filaments to the posterior semicircular canal, passes out to supply the first and the adjacent surface of the second gill, and the faucial membrane. Mr. Swan calls this branch if I XXIII. tom. i. p. 325. pi. vi. fig. v. \x, o 2 LXXVI.