197 NERVOUS SYSTEM OF FISHES. parietal bone, is formed by tbe union of a branch from the facial portion of the fifth with a branch of the vagus : the proper lateral, nerve is formed exclusively by the vagus, and divides into a superficial branch supplying the lateral line, and a deep-seated branch, communicating with the spinal nerves, and supplying the myocommatal aponeui’oses and the skin. * Whether the vagus forms the whole or a part of the ‘ nervus lateralis ’ it transmits it from the fore part of its origin: the ‘ nervus accessorius ’ when present, which is rare in fishes, forms the hindmost part of the vagus, as in higher Vertebrata. The nervus lateralis chiefly supplies the myocommata, vertical fins and mucous line, pecu- liarly ichthyic parts either by their preponderating development, or their very existence: the nervus accessorius in mammalia, sends no branch to the ‘ spinalis,’ ‘ semispinalis,’ or ‘ longissimus, dorsi ’ — the reduced homologues of the dor so-lateral myocommata of fishes, but exclusively supplies the ‘cleido-mastoideus’ and ‘ cucullaris,’ associating them with the respiratory actions of the thorax. The nervus lateralis may be in some respects analogous to the accessorius ; it is not homologous with it. The vagus sends supra-temporal branches to the head, and oper- cular branches to the gill covers. The usually double roots of the nervus vagus pass out, in most fishes, by a single foramen in the ex- occipital bone. The fore part of the root is the largest, and is ganglionic : it is the true pneumo-gastric, supplying the gills and stomach; in the Tunny the branchial nerves are remarkable for their size and their radical ganglions. The hinder second origin is usually non-ganglionic, and is the source of the supra-temporal, glosso- pharyngeal and lateral nerves. Some filaments rising behind the vagus have been traced to the parts surrounding the brain within the cranial cavity. The intestinal terminal filaments of the vagus in Osseous Fishes communicate freely with the sympathetic. Each vagal nerve of the Sturgeon equals the spinal chord in size and rises by numerous roots. The vagal nerve has numerous roots, and an extensive tract of origin in the Sharks, in which a posterior fasciculus (^ff. 55. s'), representing the ‘ nervus accessorius,’ can be best de- monstrated. There is no ‘ nervus lateralis ’ in the Myxinoids, but the gastric branches of the vagus are continued, united as a single nerve, along the intestine to the anus. The proportion of clear (organic) filaments to the opaque (animal) filaments in the vagus of fishes is much greater • xxm. tom. i. pp. 325—327.