20 LECTURE U. anterior, and now the upper, limbs free to execute the various pui’- poses of the will, and terminated by a hand, which, in the matchless harmony and adjustment of its organisation, is made the suitable instrument of a rational intelligence. LECTUKE II. THE SKELETON. Descriptive Anatomy usually commences with the bones, and the consideration of the passive organs of motion before the active ones is conformable to the sequence of development, since the fixed points are formed before the muscular fibres. The branch of anatomy which treats of the Skeleton of Vertebrate animals is designated “ Osteology,” because in anthropotomy it re- lates exclusively to the bones and teeth. But the skeleton, according to its etymological signification of hard and diy parts, might apply to the hair and nails, and, indeed, the entire epidermal system. When, also, in a general survey of the Vertebrata, we see the spinal column gristly in some fishes, and the tendons bony in some birds; and when we call to mind such homological relations as that of the fibro-mem- branous sclerotic of the human eye with the cartilaginous sclerotic of the turtle and the osseous sclerotic of the cod-fish, it will be obvious that the present branch of anatomy ought naturally to embrace the aponeuroses, ligaments, and cartilages, since these are so many ar- rested stages in the histological development of the internal skeleton. In the Invertebrata we saw that the skeleton, or parts analogous* to the bones of the Vertebrata, commonly consisted of large, strong, thick, often unjointed plates, developed in or upon the skin, hardened principally by carbonate of lime, protecting the whole body, and having the muscles attached to the inner surface. In the Vertebrata the skeleton chiefly consists of diversely con- figurated, but most commonly cylindrical and articulated pieces, hardened chiefly by phosphate of lime, developed from fibrous and cartilaginous tissue in the interior of the body, of which it forms the internal framework, giving attachment to the muscles by the outer surface, and subserving their action as levers and fulcra. The exterior calcified shells and crusts of the Invertebrata are un- * For the sense in which the terms Iiomologous and analogous arc used in the present Lectures, see the Glossary appended to the “ Lectures on Invertebrata,” Svo. 184:3.