174 LECTURE VI rr. As the niyelon approaches the encephalon it expands, and tlie lollowing changes may be here observed, in tlie Cod and Shark : in the ventral columns a short longitudinal groove di- vides a narrower median ‘ pre-pyramidal ’ tract {fig. 48. a), from a broader lateral ‘ olivary ’ tract {ih. b) : in the dorsal columns a median ‘ funicular ’ tract {ib. e), is similarly marked off from a lateral ‘ post-pyramidal ’ tract (d) ; this is now, also, distinguished by a deeper Section of medulla fissui’c from the true lateral or ‘ restiform ’ tract (c), ' ‘'it the inferior part of which a distinct slender por- tion is also sometimes defined. The post-pyramidal tracts diverge, expand and blend anteriorly with the similarly bul- ging restiform tracts, forming the side-walls of a triangular or rhoraboidal cavity, called the ‘ fourth ventricle ’ : the pre-pyramidal and olivary tracts forming the floor of the ventricle, are covered below by a thin superficial layer of transverse ‘ arciform fibres ’ * {ib. m) concealing their boundary fissures. At the bottom of the ventricle the myelonal canal is exposed, and its sides swell and rise as rounded or ‘teretial ’ tracts {ib. f') from the floor of the ventricle, diverging slightly as they advance, and exposing an intermediate ‘ nodular ’ tract; this structure is well seen in the Sturgeon and Selache: two lateral prominent ‘ vagal ’ columns, also, project inwards into the ventricle, from the conjoined restiform and post-jiyramidal tracts ; these vagal columns present a series of nodules, corresponding with the fasciculi of the roots of the great vagal nerve in Selache : (Prep. 1311 A). In the Cyprinoid fishes the median inferior tract rises into the ventricle, and is developed into a smooth hemispheric mass, the ‘nodulus’ {fig- 51. k)-. the conjoined post-pyramidal and restiform walls swell outwards, and form large lateral ‘ vagal ’ lobes (fig. 51. h) •. these are remarkably developed, and ai’e nodulated in the Cai’p, which is so tenacious of life. The vagal lobes are enormously developed in the Torpedo; they join the trigeminal lobes, and present a yellowish colour in the recent fish : many non-nucleated cells are present in their substance; they give origin to the nerves of the electric organs, and have been called ‘ lobi electric! ’; but the vagal lobes are scarcely less remarkable for their size in the Gymnotus, where they have no direct connection with any of the nerves of the electric organs. In the Cod the vagal ganglions are obsolete, and » Homologous with the “filament! arciformi” of Rolando, lvui. p. 170. t. i. fig. 2. f Tliree are called “vorderc pyramiden” by Dr. Stannius, i.vi. p. 43.