138 LECTURE VI. in subserviency to the breathing function ; an opinion which Professor Jones acknowledges that he derived from my Lectures on Compara- tive Anatomy, delivered at St. Bartholomew’s Hospital in 1835, and which he adopts. I have subsequently seen reason to modify that view, although it has received the sanction of the greatest Ichthyo- logist of the pres(^t day, M. Agassiz ; and although I find that, so eai’ly as 1826, it had presented itself under a peculiar aspect to the philosophical mind of Von Baer. In his admirable paper on the endo- and exo-skeleton he expresses his opinion, that the opercular bones are (dermal) ribs or lateral portions of the extexmal cincture of the head. * The idea of the relationship of the opercular flaps to locomotive organs is presented by Cams, under the fanciful view of their homology with the wing-covers of beetles and the valves of a bivalve shell (i. p. 122.). In 1836, M. Agassiz propounded his idea of the relation of the opercular bones to scales in a very precise and definite manner ; though, as I shall presently show, the chief ground of his opinion is erroneous. He says, — “ Les pieces operculaires des poissons ne croissent pas, comme les os des vertebres en general, par irradiation d’un ou de plusieurs points d’ossification; ce sont, au con- traire, des veritables ecailles, formees, comme celles qui recouvrent le tronc, de lames deposees successivement les unes sous les autres, et dont les bords sont souvent meme denteles comme ceux des ecailles du corps. Tels sont I’opercule, le sub-opercule, et I’inter-oiiercule. Le supra-scapulaire meme peut-etre envisage comme la premiere ecaille de la ligne laterale, dont le bord est egalement dentele. On pourrait * “ In mancher Bezlehung gehbren die Kiemendeckel zu ihr, und ich halte sie um so mehr fur (Haut) Rippen, d. h. fiir Seitentheile der aussern Ringe des Kopfes, da ich sie auch in den gewohnlichen Knockenfischen fiir nichts anderes ansehen kann. Hat bei diesen auch der oberste Knochen des Kiemendeckels wenig Aehn- lichkeit mit Rippen, so geht dagegen der unterste so unverkennbar in die strahlen- der Kiemenhaut iiber, das der Uebergang gar nicht zu verkennen ist.” (MeckeFs Archil). 1826, 3 heft, p. 369.) An analogous idea of the relation of the opercular bones to the inferior or costal arches is expressed by the learned Professor of Comparative Anatomy in University College, who, speaking of the occipital vertebras, says — “The two external and the two lateral occipitals form the upper arch, and the two opercular and two sub- opercular bones constitute the lower arch.” (Lectures, Lancet, 1834, p. 523.) He subsequently, however, adopts and illustrates (p. 573.) the homology of the oper- cular bones with the “ ossicula auditus ” of Mammalia ; and in the “ Outlines ” (xxviii.) cites only the Spixian and Blainvillian hypotheses (pp. 64, 65.). 1 have adduced the grounds which have led me to the conclusion that the opercular bones are neither ribs of the exo-skeleton, nor inferior arches of the endo-skeleton, but persistent radiating appendages of an inferior (luemal) arch ; not, however, of the occipital vertebra, but of the frontal ; just as the branchiostegal rays are the ap- pendages of the hajmal arch of the parietal, and the pectoral fins of that of the occipital vertebra;. That parts of both endo- and exo-skeleton may combine to constitute the opercular fin is the more probable, inasmuch as we sec the same com- bination of cartilaginous and dermal rays in the pectoral fins of the IMagiostomes, and in the median fins of most Fishes.