170 LECTUKE VII. tab. iv.) : a full and accurate detail of the myology of the Myxinoids, together with a philosophical comparison of the muscular system of Fishes generally with that of the higher Vertebrata, will be found in XXI. pp. 179-246. But the determination of the special, serial, and general homologies, and the recognition of the various individual adaptive modifications, of the muscles of Fishes, still remain a rich and little-explored field for the labours of the myologist. The normal character of Ichthyic myology shows itself in the vast proportion of the vegetatively repeated myocommata, corresponding with the vertebral arches, as compared with the superadded system of muscles subservient to the action of their diverging appendages : but this condition, which, inasmuch as it deviates so little from the 1‘undamental type, throws so much light upon the essential nature and homologies of the muscles of the Vertebrata, is not less ad- mirably and expressly adapted to the habits and medium of existence of the Fish. The interlocked myocommata of the trunk constitute, physiologically, two great lateral muscular masses, adapted by their attachments, and especially by those of the anterior and posterior ends, to bend vigorously from side to side, with the whole force of their alternating antagonistic contractions, the caudal moiety of the trunk; producing that double lash of the tail by which the fish darts forwards with such velocity. When the lateral muscles are more violently contracted, so as to bend the whole trunk, the recoil may even raise and propel the fish some distance from its native element: thus the salmon overleaps the roaring cataract which opposes its migration to the shallow sources whither an irresistible instinct impels it to the business of spawning ; and thus the flying-fish, in the extremity of danger, baffles its pursuer by springing aloft, and pro- longs its oblique course through the air by the rapid fluttering of its outspread pectorals. When the anterior portions of the great lateral masses act from the trunk as a fixed point upon the head, they move it rapidly and forcibly from side to side : in this way the Siluri deal severe blows with their outstretched serrated pectoral spines; thus the Percoid and Cottoid Fishes strike with their opercular spines ; and so likewise may the Saw-fish and Sword-fish wield their formidable weapons, although their deadly cut or thrust is commonly delivered with the whole impetus of the onward course, the head being rigidly fixed upon the trunk. The supra-carinales, combining with the dorsal portions of the myocommata, give tension to the region of the back, slightly raise the tail, and depress the dorsal fins. The infra-carinales, in combi-