184 LECTURE Vm. fold of membrane or ‘cboroid plexus’ penetrating tbe fissure, which is continued forward into the crus of the olfactory lobe. The lateral ventricle is more extensive in the Lepidosiren, and is continued directly into the olfactory lobe. The ‘ rhinencephalon ’ {Jigs. 47. 49, 50. 54, 55. b) consists of two lobes of grey matter, which receive the prolongations of ehiefiy white fibres from the prosencephalon and its crura, and give off the nerves to the olfactory capsule, whence they are termed ‘ olfactory lobes,’ ‘ tubera,’ or ‘ ganglia.’ The rhinencephala are solid bodies, always distinct, wide apart from each other when remote from, and in mutual contact when near to, the rest of the brain, but never united by a commissure. The rhinencephalic crura {Jigs. 4l1. 51. 55. z) vary exceedingly in length. In the Lepidosiren {Jig. 54.) they are feebly indicated by a continuous indentation circumscribing the base of each rhinencephalon (b), and defining it from the anterior end of each prosencephalon (p.) in Polypterus and Lepidosteus {Jig. 49.), the indentation is deeper, and the attach- ment of the base of the now pyriform rhinencephalon sinks to the prolonged crus or basis of the prosencephalon. It is from this sub- stratum that the rhinencephalic crura are prolonged in all osseous fishes; in some they are so short that the rhinencephala are partly over- lapped by the prosencephala ( Trigla), or rise into view immediately in front of them {Amblyopsis, Anguilla, Coitus, Cyclopterus) ; but in many fishes the rhinencephala are developed far in advance of the rest of the brain, and their crura are prolonged close to the olfactory capsules: this has led some excellent observers to deny the existence of olfactory lobes in such fishes; but the rhinencephala are truly present in both the Tetrodon*, the Cod and Carp; they are merely removed to j uxta-position with the olfactory capsules, with a concomitant prolongation of their crura. These crura, so prolonged, have been called ‘ olfactory nerves ’ by those who, failing to appreciate the true homology of the remote ‘rhinencephala,’ have described them as ganglionic swellings of the ends of the olfactoi*y nerves.f These ganglions, wherever situated, consist of proper nex'vous matter over and above the mere radiation or expansion of the fibres of the so- called ‘ olfactory nerves.’ The true olfactory nerve quits the rhinen- cephalon as a plexiform chord, or as a group of distinct fibres. If the thick olfactory nerve of the Gurnard be compared with the thick rhinencephalic crus of the Skate, or if the long olfactory nerve of the Eel be compared with the long rhinencephalic crus of the Cod, their * Dr. Desmoulins (lxxviii. t. i. p. 169.), lias erroneously denied the existence of the ‘ lobes olfactifs’ in the Diodon ; but in other fishes both he and Mr. Solly (lxii. p. 78.), have taken a correct view of the rhinencephala or ‘ olfactory tubercles.’ I Camper, lxi. p. 95. ; Cuvier, xxm. p. 321.