63 VERTEBRii.L COLUMN OE FISHES. Q Emlo- and exo-ske- letal elements of a caudal vertebra of a Plaice {I’leuro- nectei), * tliese in the abdominal region are lateral, usually stand out and support ribs; but in the caudal region they bend down and coalesce at their extremities. The caudal vertebrae of some flat-fishes {Pleuronectides, fig. 20.), the Polypterus and the Muraenas, would seem to disprove this homology of the haemal arches, since transverse processes from the sides of the body co- exist with them, as they do in the Cetacea. But, if we trace the vertebral modifications throughout the entire column in any of these fishes, we shall find that the haemal arches are actually parts of the trans- verse processes; not independent elements, as in the Cetacea; but due to a progressive bifurcation : this, in Murcena Helena, for example, begins at the end of the transverse processes of about the twenty-fifth vertebra, the forks diverging as the fissure deepens, until, at about the seventy-third, the lower fork de- scends at a right angle to the upper one (which re- mains to represent the transverse process), and, meeting its fellow, forms the haemal arch, and supports the antero-posteriorly expanded haemal spine. In the Plaice a small process is given off from the expanded base of the descending parapophysis of the first caudal ver- tebra, which increases in length in the second, rises upon the side of the body iu the third, becomes dis- tinct from the parapophysis in the fourth, and gra- dually diminishes to the ninth or tenth caudal vertebra, when it disappears. These false transverse processes never support ribs. The atlas may usually be distinguished by some slight modification of the anterior articular end of the body, by the persistent suture of the neural arch, or by the absence or detachment of its pleurapophyses : but none of these characters are constant. Peculiar processes are sometimes sent olF from the under part of the centrum : two very long and strong processes from this part are articulated with the basi-occipital in the great Sudis {Arapaima gigas). The second vertebra is never characterised by an odontoid pro- cess ; but the absence of this is not to be accounted * Compare this figure with nature, and with tlio figures of a corresponding ver- tebra in II. pi. 5., and in xxviii. p. 58. The names assigned by GeofTroy St. Ililaire