246 LECTURE X. more ramified cajca, with a concomitant increase of the vascular supply, and a common covering or capsule, finally converts the ac- cessory intestinal growths into a true parenchymatous conglomerate gland; as we see in the Holocephali and Plagiostomes, (preps. 776, 777.) : the papilliform termination of the duct of such a pancreas is .shown in the Selache at fig. 64. i. The existence of this highly developed form of pancreas over and above the spiral intestinal valve may relate to the high oi’ganisation of these Cartilaginous Fishes, and to the great development of the organs of locomotion, occasioning the necessity for rapid and com- plete digestion. But if we compare the few existing species of heavily-laden Ganoid fishes, we shall again find good evidence of the compensation for a pancreas by the extension of the intestinal mu- cous membrane within the canal, the circumstances calling for a more complete development of the digestive system in the predatory Sharks and large-finned Bays not being present. Thus the Poly- pterus, which has a spiral intestinal valve, has only one short pyloric CEecum {fig. 62. Jt) ; whilst the Lepidosteus, which has no spiral valve, has a compact group of above a hundred small ca3ca, which unite and reunite to communicate by a few apertures with the commencement of the duodenum. LECTURE X. VASCULAR SYSTEM OF FISHES. THE ABSORBENTS. The assimilation of food in an animal body has a close analogy to a chemical operation, the general result being the obtaining from a combination of two substances a third distinct from both. If the chemist operates on a solid substance, he first triturates and reduces it to powder, then digests it in a solvent menstruum, next adds the reagent, and if the result of the admixture be a precipitate, the su- pernatant fluid is drawn or filtered off. vSo it is with the food: it first undergoes the process of mastication in the mouth, next that of solution in the stomach, then the chyme is mixed with the intestinal, biliary, and pancreatic secretions, and lastly the chyle is filtered off from the fcBcal precipitate. The instruments of this separation and conveyance of the chyle to the circulating organs are the ‘ lacteals: ’ analogous vessels whieh take up the effete parts of the body are called the ‘ lymphatics ; ’ both together constitute the ‘ absorbent