238 f xciii. p. 26. « XXXIII. t. vi. pp. 624. 270. LECTURE IX, valve. In the Bogue-bream (^Box vulgaris) and the Flounder there is a small cmcal process at the commencement of the large intestine; there are two short caeca at the same part in Box Salpa* The large intestine is usually short and straight in Fishes, answering to the rectum of higher animals. In some Fishes, e. g., Salmo, Clupea, Esox, Anableps, Anarrhichas, and the Gymnodonts, it preserves the same diameter as the small intestine, and the term ‘ large,’ becomes arbitrary: in some fishes, e.g., Gasterosteus, Centriscus, Ostracion, Balistes, and Syngnathus, it is even narrower than the ‘ small in- testine but most commonly it is wider, as in the Percoid family, the Gurnards (Triglida.), the Breams (Sparidce), Scicena, Scomber, Coitus, Labrus, Pleuronectes, Gadus, Lophius, Cyelopterus, the Siluridce, the Plagiostomi, and the Planirostra (ib. h). The* tunics of the intestinal canal consist in Fishes, as in other Ver- tebrates, of the peritoneal or serous, the muscular, and the mucous coats, with their intervening cellular connecting layers, and the epithelial lining; the muscular and mucous coats are commonly thicker and of a coarser character than in the warm-blooded classes; pigmental cells are not unfrequently developed in the serous coat; the epithelial scales of the intestine of the Lancelet support vibratile cilia. The muscular fibres are arranged in a thin outer longitudinal and a thick inner circular stratum (see preps. 637. 639, from the Sturgeon); the elementary fibres in general present the smooth character of those of the involuntary system; but Eeichei’tf has detected the transversely striated fibre in the muscular tunic of the whole tract of the intestine in the Tench. The mucous membrane presents numerous modifications, some of them more complex and remarkable than in any of the higher Verte- brates. It is commonly thick and glandular, and always highly vascular. In the small intestines it presents, in some Fishes (Cod, prep. 633.), a smooth and even surface; in some it is produced into obliquely longitudinal or wavy folds (Turbot, prep. 634,, Salmon, prep. 635.); in the Herring it presents feeble transverse rugce; in many Fishes it is reticulate, as in the Wolf-fish (prep. 631.) and Murcena (prep. 630.); this character is present in the peculiarly thick and parenchymatoid mucous tunic of the small intestine of the Stur- geon, where the larger meshes include irregular spaces, subdivided into smaller cells (prep. 638.). In a few Fishes the mucous membrane is coarsely villose or papillose. There is often a well-marked dif- ference in the character of the lining membrane of the small and large intestine: thus, in the Salmon, the rugaj become fewer, larger.