250 LECTUKE X. corresponding with the muscular and osseous segments of the body: these ‘ segmental’ veins consist, in the tail, of superior or neural, and inferior or hsematal branches ; in the abdomen, of superior and of lateral branches ; in the head, where the vertebral segments are more modified, the veins manifest a less regular and appreciable corre- spondence with these segments. The cephalic veins, returning the blood from the cranial vertebras, their appendages and surrounding soft parts, from the brain, the organs of special sense and their orbits or proper cavities, from the mouth and pharynx, and, receiving also the whole or part of the ‘ venas nutritiae’ from the branchial arches, unite together on each side to form a pair of ‘jugular’ veins, each of which usually dilates into a large sinus, and again contracts and re- sumes the vasiform character, as it descends to beneath the parapo- physes of the atlas and axis, in order to join the corresponding trunk of the vertebral veins of the body. * This great trunk, called ‘ vena cardinalis’ by Rathkef, commences at the base of the tail-fin, where it receives the lymph from the pulsating sac in the Eel-tribe. The ‘ vena cardinalis’ is double, there being one for each side of the body, and both right and left ‘ venaa cardinales’ extend forwards, in close contact, along the haamal canal in the tail, then through the abdomen, and in both regions immediately beneath the aorta and vertebral bodies, to near the ‘ axis,’ where each trunk diverges and descends to join its corresponding ‘ vena jugularis,’ forming the short ‘ pre-caval’ vein| (^Jig. 79, e), which empties itself in the great auricular sinus between the aponeurotic layers of the pericardial and abdominal septum. In the Lamprey the ‘vena cardinalis’ is single along the tail, but it bifur- cates on entering the abdomen into two veins, each of which is six times as large as the aorta. The left cardinal vein is larger than the right in the Myxinoids : but the symmetrical disposition of the ver- tebral venous system is more disturbed in many osseous fishes, at the expense of the right side; the right cardinal vein, after some tians- verse connecting channels with the left, finally terminating or losing itself therein anteriorly : part of the right jugular vein, also, in this * In the Lamprey the corresponding jugular trunks lie above the aponeurotic representatives of the vertebral parapophyses. _ t ‘ I.a veine cave ’ of Cuvier ; but it is not homologous with either the ‘ mferior ’ or ‘ superior venae cavai ’ of Man. i Ductus Cuvieri, Rathke ; quervenenstamme, Muller. The precaval veins are the homologues of the two ‘superior cavae’ in Reptiles and Birds, which receive the so-called ‘azygos’ veins or reduced homologues of the ‘venae cardinales’ of Fishes • in the higher Mammals and in Man they are concentrated into a single ‘ superior vena cava,’ receiving the ‘ venie cardinales ’ by a common trunk, thence called ‘azygos’ in Anthropotomy. The anatomical student is usually introduced to the cardinal veins, or, to speak more strictly, their single homologue in the human subject, where their normal symmetrical character becomes masked by an extreme modification, and where their name is applicable only to so rare and ex- ceptional a condition.