261 VASCULAR SYSTEM OF FJSHES. they are blended into a single orifice in Symbranchus, analogous to that in the Myxine. In some Ganoids, many Plagiostomes, and all Sturgeons, a canal leads from the fore part of each side of the bran- chial chamber to the top of the head ; the outlets are called ‘ si^iracles,’ the canals ‘ spiracular.’ The nasal sac communicates in the Lamprey with the single homologous canal. The main purpose of the gills of fishes is to expose the venous blood in a state of minute subdivision to the influence of streams of water; for that purpose the branchial arteries rapidly divide and subdivide until they resolve themselves into microscopic capil- laries, which are supported by a delicate membrane. Both this membrane and the tunics of the capillaries which it covers are so thin as to allow the chemical interchange and decomposition to take place between the carbonated blood and the oxygenated watei’. The requisite extent of the supporting membrane, or the respiratory field of capillaries, is gained by various modes of multiplying the surface within a limited space. In the Marsipobranchii and Pla- giostomi, for example, by folds of the membrane on plane surfaces: in the Lopliobranchii by filamentous processes of the membrane grouped into tufts: in the Protopteri, by double or single fringes of filaments : in the rest of the class by the production of the membrane upon a double row of long, compressed, slender, pointed processes, extending, like the teeth of a comb, from the convex side of each branchial arch. Each pair of processes has its flat sides turned towards contiguous pairs,, and the two processes of each pair stand edgeways towards each other, and are commonly united for a greater or less extent from their base: hence Cuvier describes each pair as a single bifur- cated plate (‘ feuillet’).* In the Swordfish {Xiphias), the processes of the same pair stand quite free from each other; whence Aristotle described this fish as having double the usual number of gills.f But to compensate for this independence, and to prevent the inconvenience of mutual pres- sure, the processes of the same series are united together by little vascular lamella3, so that the surface of the gill is reticulate rather than pectinate. In a few species the processes of each pair are joined together to near their apices : the most common extent to which they are con- nected is about two-fifths of their whole length, as in the Salmon. In the Orthagoriscus the processes of each sei’ies ai-e not opposite, but alternate. In the Sturgeon, in which the processes of the same pair * XXIII. i. p. 379. t xxm. t. viii. p. 192.