270 LECTURE X. the hyo-opercular, from which the proper ophthalmic artery is de- rived, the carotids are usually sent off from the ‘ circulus aorticus.’ In the Chimaera the carotids are transmitted directly from the an- terior branchial veins; and, in the Pike, the artery of the pectoral fins (brachial) is transmitted from the common trunk of the two anterior branchial veins. In the Myxines an anterior, as well as a posterior, aorta is continued from the common confiuence of the branchial veins. In all higher fishes the posterior aorta is the only systemic trunk so formed. This aorta extends beneath the bodies of the vertebra? along the abdomen and through the haemal canal to the end of the tail. In many Cyprinoid fishes it dilates beneath each abdominal vertebra into a sinus. It gives off intercostal arteries, and, with less regu- larity, numerous small branches to the kidneys. The first principal visceral branch is the ‘ cseliac,’ which sometimes, as in the Burbot, is showing that the parts in question performed the same functions in the two classes. Mr. Simon conceives that the thyroid gland “ maintains an intimate relation to the vascular supply of the brain.” The pseudobranchicB, however, are not diverticula to the cerebral circulation in Osseous Fishes, but only to the ophthalmic circulation, and in most cases are subsidiary, in this respect, to the choroid vaso-ganglion. The internal carotid or encephalic artery in Osseous Fishes is a division of an artery sent off from a part of the ‘ circulus aorticus,’ formed by the three posterior pairs of branchial veins : the artery of the pseudobranchi® is given off from the anterior branchial vein, or from the hyo-opercular artery, or from both : its subsequent modification cannot therefore affect the currents of circulation through the gills, with whose efferent vessels it has no connection, and from which vessels the ence- phalic arteries are derived. In the Sturgeon and Plagiostomes, indeed, the pseudo- branchiae may, and doubtless do, act as diverticula to the cerebral circulation ; but it is precisely in these fishes that Mr. Simon transfers the name and function of thyroid gland to another vaso-ganglionic body, viz. lletzius’s sublingual gland. Mr. Simon was acquainted with the existence of this body, and also of the supple- mentai'y opercular gill in the Sturgeon, but he seems to have overlooked the pseudo- branchi®, which, in this fish, hold precisely that relation to the cerebral vessels which would have best supported Mr. Simon’s determination of the pseudobranchi® as the thyroid gland. I consider, however. Professor Miiller’s comparison of the pseudobranchi® in the Sturgeon with the ento-carotid plexuses of the Ruminants to be a truer and more natural view of their analogies. As to the question of ‘ homology,’ which is to be determined by consideration of the organic connections, relative position, and development of the parts in question, it is obvious that if, by a consideration of the.se characters, we admit the sublingual body of the higher Cartilaginous Fishes to be, of all the vascular ganglions in or near the head, that which most nearly repeats the homological conditions of the thyroid gland of higher Vertebrates, we cannot regard the vascular ganglions, which maintain a diametrically opposite position in regard to the branchial arches, as being also parts answerable to the thyroid glands. If any thing were wanting to convince an anatomist holding that view, viz. that the pseudobranchi® are the homologues of thyroid glands, of the fiillacy of such a view, it would be the fact of their co-existing in some fishes with a vaso- ganglion having a much better title to be so considered, and which is actually described by the ingenious author of the paper in the Philosophical Transactions as the thyroid gland in those fishes; though its relations to the heart and great ves- sels in the Plagiostomes and Sturgeons seem to give it more claim to be regarded as the homologue of the thymus.