114 LECTUUE V. appendage to the supporting arch, is the pre-opercular {Jig. 30. 34), which is usually the longest in the vertical direction, if not the largest of the hones : it commonly presents a crescentic or an angular form; it is sometimes bifurcate above, as in the Cod, and with the lower slender angle continued downwards and forwards to beneath the hypo-tympanic. In the Gurnards, or ‘ mailed-cheeked’ Fishes, the pre-opercular is articulated with the enormously developed sub- orbital scale-bones. Three bones usually constitute the second series of this appendage: the upper one is commonly the largest and of a triangular form, thin and with radiated lines like a scale : it is the opercular {Jig. 30. 35): in the Cod it is prineipally connected with the posterior margin of the pre-opercular, and below with the sub-opercular {ib. 36) ; but it has usually, also, a'partial attachment to the outer angle of the epi- tympanic, and is sometimes {Diodon, Lophius, Anguilla^ exclusively suspended therefrom. In the Lophius piscatorius the opercular is a long and strong bone suspended vertically from the convex epi- tympanic condyle, and with a long and slender fin-ray proceeding from the back part of that joint. The sub-opercular forms the chief part of the opercular fin by its long backwardly produced lower angle. The sub-opercular bone in the Conger is soon reduced to a mere ray, which curves backwards and upwards like one of the branchiostegals. The opercular itself, though shorter and retaining more of its laminated form, also shows plainly, by its length and curvature in the Eels, its essential nature as a metamorphosed ray of the tympanic fin. We have seen that all the framework of this fin had the form of rays in the Plagiostomes. In Mursena the small opercular bones articulate only to the under half of the tympanic pedicle. The sub-opercular is wanting in the Shad. The lowermost bone, called the inter-opercular {^fig. 30. 37) is articulated to the pre- opercular above, to the sub-opercular behind, and usually to the back part of the mandible ; it is attached, also, in the Cod by ligament to the cerato-hyoid in front. The interopercular and preopercular are the parts of the appendage which are most elongated in the peculiarly lengthened head of the Fistularia. Hyoidean Arch {Jig. 30. ii, ii, 38—43). The third inverted arch of the skull is the ‘ hyoidean,’ and is sus- pended, in Osseous Fishes, through the medium of the epi-tympanic bone to the mastoid ; and I regard it as the costal or haBmal arch of the parietal segment or vertebra of the skull.* The first portion of * Bojanus, studying the vertebral homologies of the head in the fresh-water tortoise, deemed the cornua of the hyoid to be the last costal arch of the skull, and