NERVOUS SYSTEM OP PISHES. 185 respective differences of structure will be readily appreciated: the crus is a compact tract of medullary with a small proportion of grey matter; the nerve is a bundle of nerve filaments : the medullary tract of the crus is fibrous, but the fibres are as fine as in the crus cerebi’i, and much more numerous and less easily separable than in the true olfactory nerve: in this there is no grey tract; it consists wholly of comparatively large and readily separable white fibres, which radiate at once upon the olfactory capsule: the divergence and radiation of the true end of the olfactoi’y nerve is well seen in the Lepidosiren (yfig. 54. i. oZ.). In the Sharks a ventricle is continued to each rhinencephalon along its crus from the prosencephalon. The olfactory nerve never forms a ganglion before spreading upon the olfactory capsule: the rhinencephalic crus, when prolonged to the capsule, always expands into a ‘ tuberculum olfactorium,’ or rhinen- cephalon, before it transmits the true olfactory nerves to the cap- sule. In other words, the olfactory nerve conveys impressions to a proper centre or lobe, which in fishes may be situated close to the capsule, or close to the rest of the brain, and the length of its crus will be inversely as that of the nerve. To say, with Cuvier, that “ the ganglion of the olfactory nerve is sometimes at its beginning, and sometimes at its end” (t. iii. xxm. p. 146.), or that it occurs “ in the course of the olfactory nerve, at a greater or less distance from the hemispheres ” (xxvii. p. 227.), is, in fact, to deny the marked ana- tomical difference between the crus and the nerve proper; and to overlook the serial homology of the rhinencephalic crura with those of the prosencephalon. The olfactory lobes or rhinencephala them- selves are serially homologous with the optic lobes. As to the pro- sencephalon, since this does not immediately reeeive or transmit any nerve, it resembles in this important character the cerebellum, and proceeds, even in the present class, to be developed to a degree beyond that of the ganglions of any nerves or organs of sense. Tlie more special homology of the prosencephalic lobes, under their normal proportions and solid structure in Osseous Fishes, with the parts of the complex and fully developed prosencephalon in Mammalia, will be made manifest as we trace the progress of that complication synthetically. Cuvier had already, by the opposite course of analysis, reduced the hemispheres in birds to the ‘ corpora striata,’ with their commissures and a thin supra-ventricular cover- ing. “ Le corps cannele,” he says, “ forme a lui seul presque tout riiemisph^re.” {Logons d'Anal. Comp. t. ii. 1799, p. 162.) But he failed altogether to recognise the homology of the prosencephala in Fishes. Since Arsaki’s time their homology with the cerebral lobes of Reptiles, Birds, and Mammals has been generally recognised.