29 THE SKELETON. they agree in their main physiological relations with the first class of Noquez’s Lymphatics: and the solid tissues of tooth and bone manifest under the microscope a system of nutrient vessels, which were only hypothetically known to the older physiologists. I have detected a similar system of plasmatic tubes in tendon; and they probably exist, under characteristic modifications,' in all tissues, con- stituting the essential nutritive system of such. The remains of the metamorphosed cartilaginous cells in bone were first discovered by Purkinje and Deutsch, (viii.), arranged in concentric series around the Haversian canals: they be- lieved them to be solid, and called them “ corpuscula ossea.” Tre- viranus (ix.) first described them as cavities or “ lacunae,” in the intervals of the concentric ossified lamellae, and he believed them to be fiUed with fluid. Professor Muller (x.) was led by the whiteness of the radiated corpuscles when viewed by reflected light, and by its disappearance, accompanied with evolution of gas, when acted upon by dilute acid, to regard them as containing, either in their parietes or cavity, calcareous salts. Serres and Doyere and others have reproduced the idea of Treviranus, which is true to a certain extent, but have erred in denying that the radiated cells contain any calcareous salts, and have objected to the term “ calci- gerous” applied to those cells. But the effects of reaction of dilute acid in removing the opacity of the cell when viewed by transmitted light, and in removing its whiteness when viewed by reflected light, show that these optical phenomena are not due to the mere depth of empty cells: aggregated particles of the earthy salts become depo- sited after the solution of the resisting nuclear matter upon their parietes; but the cavities are preserved by the slow but constant percolation of the plasmatic fluids. Thus bone, like dentine, “ pre- sents a two-fold arrangement of its hardening particles, which are either blended with the animal matter of the interspaces and parietes of the tubes and cells, or are contained in a minute and irregular granular state in their cavities;” and “the density of bone, as of dentine, arises principally from the proportion of earth in the first of these states of combination.” (v. p. iii.) The primitive arrangement of the osseous tissue, so composed, is lamellar, the lamelliE being arranged cither concentrically around the Haversian canal, or around the entire circumference of the bone, or in interrupted plates connecting together the Haversian cylinders, and those with the generally surrounding peripheral lainclliB. ' The Haversian canals usually contain, in addition to the capillary vessel, some oil, and this is the seat of the green colour in the bones of the Belone and Lepidosiren.