96 LECTURE V. the same relation to the mesencephalic bony girdle, which the par- occipitals do to the epencephalic one behind: and they project out- wards and backwards further than the par-occipitals, forming the second strong transverse process at each side of the cranium. This pi’ocess is developed from the outer margin of the mastoid; the inner side of the bone is expanded, and enters slightly into the forma- tion of the walls of the cranial or rather the acoustic cavity, its inner, usually cartilaginous, surface lodging part of one of the semicircular canals.* It is wedged into the interspace of the ex- and par-occi- pitals, the petrosal, the ali-sphenoid, the parietal, the frontal and post- frontal bones. The projecting process lodges above, the chief mucous canal of the head, and below affords attachment to the epitympanic, or upper, piece of the bony pedicle from which the mandibular, hyoid, and opercular bones are suspended: its extremity gives attachment to the strong tendon of the dorso-lateral muscles of the trunk. The mastoid is ossified in and from the primitive cartilaginous waU of the cranium. The basal piece of the third cranial cincture, which defends the prosencephalon, is formed by the presphenoid (centrum of the fron- tal vertebra. Jigs. 30. 33. 9) already described as connate with or produced from the basi-sphenoid. The sides of the prosencephalon are de- fended by the orhitosphenoids (neu- rapophyses of the frontal vertebra, ih. lo) : these are osseous plates, usually of a square shape, sometimes semicircular or semi-elliptic, as in the Cod; larger in the Malacopteri {Jig. 35. 10) but very small, usually, in Acanthopteri, and sometimes repre- sented by a descending plate of the frontal, as in the Garpike, or by un- ossified cartilage, as in Mail-cheeked fishes- They are occasionally separated from the pre-sphenoid by the ali-sphe- noid, to which they are articulated be- low and behind, whilst above they are joined to the frontal and post- frontal, completing the anterior part of the lateral walls of the cranium. Dis.irticuliited neural arch of frontal vertebra, viewed from behind : Gadus Morrhua. * The great cavity, ‘ otocrane,’ which the ex-occipital, par-occipital, ali-sphenoid, mastoid, and sometimes the parietal and supra-occipital form for the lodgment of the cartilaginous or osseous proper acoustic capsule, ‘petrosal,’ of the great labyrinth of fishes, may be compared to the accessary cavity or orbit, which lodges the car- tilaginous or bony capsule, ‘ sclerotic,’ of the organ of vision.