240 LECTURE IX. 652, A, shows a typical example of this disposition of the mucous membrane in the Fox-shark (^Alo- pias Vulpes); the valve describes thirty-four circumgyrations Avithin seven inches extent of the intes- tine ; the mucous membrane is mi- nutely honey-combed: a few scat- tered fibres of elastic or involuntary muscular tissue may he traced in the vasculo-cellular layer included within the mucous fold, and they form a slender band within the free border of the valve, retaining much elasticity in the dead intestine, and drawing that border into festoons. Besides Selache and Alopias, the spiral valve is transverse in Galeus, Lamna, and all the Dog-fishes ( ScylludcB and Spinacidcs). The trunk of the veins of the longitudi- nally convoluted valve runs along its free thickened border, and quits its commencement to join the vena porta3*: that of the transversely sjiiral valve is external to the gut. One may connect the peculiarity of the spiral valve with the necessity for reducing the mass and,weight of the abdominal contents in the active high-swimming Shai’ks, which have no swim-bladder; the essential part of an intestine being its seceiming and absorbing surface, Ave see in them the requisite extent of the vasculo-mucous membrane packed in the smallest compass and associated with the least possible quantity of accessary muscular and serous tunics by the modifications above described. Analogous ones exist, however, in other Plagi- ostomes, and in the Lamprey, to which the above physiological ex- planation will not apply ; and the spiral valve is associated with the air-bladder in some of the highly organised Ganoids, and in the Lepidosiren. Nevertheless, it is to be remarked that the intestinal canal is shortest, and the spiral valve most complex and extensive, in the Sharks. In both these, and the Rays, the valve subsides at a short distance from the anus ; and into the back part of this terminal portion of the rectum an elongated ca3cal process with a glandular inner surface opens {fig. 75. i). The anus itself communicates Avith the fore- part of a large cloacal cavity in the Plagiostomes. In other Fishes, where it opens distinctly upon or near the external siu’face, it is anterior in position to the orifices of oviducts, or sperm-ducts, and Spiral valve, Selache ; Clift. * Duvernoy, xcvi. p. 274. pi. 10.