123 THE SKULL OF OSSEOUS FISHES. common undivided embryonal bud, wbicb is permanently typified in the Lepidosiren. Since, however, in all its modifications, the anterior or pectoral member is essentially, in its widest homological relations, but the diverging or radiated appendage of the hfemal arch of the occipital vertebra, we must not be surprised to find that arch retained, as in the Synbranchi and Muraenae, where no vestige of its appendage is developed. To the inner side of the upper end of the coracoid there is attached, in the Cod and Carp, a bony appendage in the form of a single styli- form rib; but in other fishes this is more frequently composed of two pieces, as in the Perch. This single or double bone, here called epi-coracoid {Jigs. 19. 40. 5S), is slightly expanded at its upper end in the Cod-tribe, where it is attached by ligament to the inner side of the angular process of the coracoid: its slender pointed portion extends downwards and backwards, and terminates freely in the lateral mass of muscles. In its mode of attachment to the cora- coid it resembles that of the hyoidean arch to the tympanic pedicle: but in the Batrachus its upper extremity rises above the coracoid, and is directly attached to the spinous process of the atlas. In some fishes, as the Snipe-fish (Centriscus Scolopax), the Cock-fish {Argy- reiosus Vomer), the Lancet-fish {Siganus), it is joined by the lower end to the corresponding bone of the opposite side, thus completing an independent inverted arch, behind the scapular arch. There is some reason, therefore, for viewing the epi-coracoids as representing the inverted arch of the atlas, or its hasmapophysial portion, and not as parts or appendages of a cranial vertebra. The usually free lower extremities of the epi-coracoids, together with their taking no share in the direct support of the pectoral fin, and their inconstant existence, oppose more strongly the view of their special homology with the coracoids of higher Vertebrates. They have been regarded as advanced ‘ ossa innominata’ by Carus (xxxiv. p. 125.). To their special homology with the ‘ clavicles’ of higher classes it has been objected that these bones are always si- tuated in those classes in advance of the coracoids; but this inverted position may be a consequence of the backward displacement of the scapulo-coracoid arch in the air-breathing Vertebrata; and if, not- withstanding such displacement, we are able to discern the general homological relations of that arch as the hamial one of the occipital vertebra, we may, in like manner, discern in the clavicle a less dis- placed lucmal arch of the atlantal vertebra. Tlie epi-coracoids are either absent or are very slender spines in the Wolf-fish {Anarhichas), the Mullet, the Goby, the Stickleback,