22 LECTURE II. to demonstrate the unity of organisation between the Articulate and Vertebrate animal. But the position of the brain is thereby reversed, and the alimentary canal still intervenes in the Invertebrate between the aortic trunk and the neural canal. The outer and the inner skeletons do agree in certain relations: neither of them are primitive parts of the organism, but are modifi- cations or metamorphoses of other pre-existing systems : both serve as fixed points of attachment to the muscles, aid their action as levers, and detennine the kind of movements by particular joints : both are organs of protection and support. But, besides the differences of tissue, mode of growth and vital properties, already noticed, the exo- and the endo-skeletons differ in the one being developed from the skin, the other from the internal cellular and fibrous systems. The exo-skeleton defends or surrounds the periphery of the animal; the endo-skeleton the internal parts. The exo-skeleton is related to the muscles by its inner surface, the endo-skeleton by its outer svu’face. The exo-skeleton is the reflex of the circumambient medium and relations of the animal : the endo- skeleton is the index of its motive energies and its intelligence. Even the neural canal itself is differently constructed in the segments of the exo- and endo-skeletons selected for comparison: in the Vertebrate it is an arch developed from a central column 6.), which, in like manner, gives origin to the opposite or haemal arch; in the Articulate the neural canal is formed by processes, apodemata, or entapophyses (^e,fig. 5.) sent off from the great peripheral arch. Moreover, the development of these processes relates rather to that of the muscular than of the nervous systems. We saw* how greatly the ganglions vary in number and position upon the abdominal nerve- trunks of insects. Now, if the entapophyses of the dermo-skeleton — the secondary vei’tebrae of Cams—were developed, like the neural arches of the vertebraj of the endo-skeleton, in special relation to the protection of the nervous centres, and conformable in number with the pairs of nerves thence sent offf, we ought to find them go- verned by the existence and position of the ganglions ; but it is not so. In the Myriapoda, as Von Baer well objects (m.), entapophyses are entirely absent; and in winged insects they are confined to the thorax or locomotive segment, although there may be two, three, or four ganglions in the abdomen. And, what is further to be remarked, the thoracic entapophyses are not developed over the thoracic ganglions, but over the inter-communicating chords. In fact, their relation to * Lectures on Invertebrata, 8vo, 1843, p. 205. “ Numerus vertebrarum semper cum nuinero nervorum spinalium intinie co- bwret.” Otto I leer, De Ossium Concrctionc normali, &c., 4to. 1838, p. 6.