TELEOLOGY OP THE SKELETON OP PISHES. 149 by the hypothesis of ti'ansmuted Crustacea. Some have gone so far as to affirm, that in all those solid parts that cover and shield the exterior of the body of the sturgeon and analogous fishes, “ there is nothing in the least analogous to any part ol the internal articulated skeleton of Vertebrata,” but that “it is entirely a remnant of the superficial shells of Invertebrata.” (xxvn. p. 337.) You would hardly suppose from these exaggerated expressions, that both ganoid and placoid plates are as richly organised and permeated by nutrient vessels as the bones within ; and that they present the same micro- scopic structure as the ossified parts of the endo-skeleton, which they serve to protect. I have proved this with regard to the existing Lepidosteus, and the extinct Lepidotus. (v. p. 14.) Drs. Peters and Muller have shown the osseous rayed corpuscles in the scales of Polypterus and other Ganoids. Nay, many of the ganoid fishes have these modified bony scales articulated in regular series by a kind of gomphosis, like the pegs and sockets by which the tiles of a roof are linked together. The dermal bones which form the carapace of the Armadillo have the same cellulo-reticulate interior structure as the carpal, tarsal, or other bones of the endo-skeleton not excavated by a medullary cavity. This is well demonstrated in the dermal bones of the great extinct Glyptodons. * The great proportion of the primitive cartilage which is retained in the skull of many of the Osseous Fishes, the Salmon and Pike, for example, and the greater proportion of the animal to the earthy matter in all the bones, their coarse texture, the radiating fibres of the fiat cranial bones, and the general absence of dentated sutures, are all persistent characters in Osseous Fishes, which remind the An- thropotomist of transitional ones in the human foetus ; but the light of teleology demonstrates the perfection of such, so termed embryonic, conditions, in relation to the atmosphere and movements of the Fish. It is generally in fresh-water abdominal Fishes that the semi-osseous condition of the skull is found, and the diminution of the quantity of heavy earthy particles may be connected with the less dense quality of their medium, as compared with sea-water, and with the usually more posterior position of the ventral fins. In reference to the analogies to the form of a fish, we may be re- minded that the head of the human embryo is disproportionately large. True: but the head of a fish must needs be large to meet and over- come the resistance of the fluid, in the mode most favourable for rapid progression; it must therefore grow with the growth of the fisli. • M. de Blainvillc, in the “ Gencralites Osti-ologiques,” prefixed to his great “ Osteographie,” admits tliat tlic structure of the dermal hones has a certain re- sotnhlaiice with that of true hones; but errs in stating, “ avec cette dilferoneo importantc, qu’elle n’est jamais celluleuse et reticulee.” dto. 1839, p. 12.