NERVOUS SYSTEM OP PISHES. 177 Loach and Herring 52. i), and also in the Sturgeon and Chi- mtera, where they are closely connected with a thick vascular mass of pia mater and arachnoid. The trigeminal lobes are large in the Skate; enormous and blended with the vagal lobes in the Torpedo . but in most Osseous Fishes (Lepidosteus, Cod,) they are not developed so as to merit the name of lobes. In the Cod the inner surfaces of the restiform bodies project into the fourth ventricle, and obliterate the fore part of the ‘ calamus ’ by meeting above it % this commissure, which is beneath the cerebellum, I call the ‘ commissura restiformis ; it is remarkably developed in the Carcharias, where it seems to form a small supplemental cerebellum beneath the large normal one, 55. I)* In figure 48. the medulla oblongata is cut across, the fourth ventricle exposed from behind, and the restiform com- missure, I, is raised : it has an anterior and posterior median notch. The primary division of the brain, which consists of the medulla oblongata with the cerebellum and other less constant appendages in Fishes, is called the ‘ epencephalon: ’ it is relatively larger, occupies a greater proportion of the cranium, and is more complex and diver- sified in this than in any of the higher classes of Vertebrata. The next succeeding primary division of the brain, is called the ‘ mesencephalon : ’ it is usually the largest division in Osseous Fishes, and consists of two upper spheroidal bodies, called ‘ optic lobes ’f (o), of two lower subspherical bodies, called ‘hypoaria’j; (w), with inter- vening connecting walls enclosing a cavity, called the ‘ third ventricle,’ which is prolonged downwards into the pedicle of the ‘ hypophysis ’ or pituitary gland ( p\ and upwards into that of the ‘ conarium ’ or pineal gland (w). The prepyramidal columns are continued forwards, along the fioor of the fourth ventricle, where they are covered by a thin layer of medullary fibres, to the hypoaria and prosencephalon; some fibres blending with the wall of the third ventricle and the base of the optic lobes. The transverse ‘ansulate’ commissure, which unites or crosses the prepyramids before they penetrate the hypoaria, is very obvious in the Sturgeon and Perch, where it is figured by Gottsche (uvii. pi. iv.. Jig. 7. 1) : it may be regarded as the most anterior of the arciform filaments, which feebly represent the pons Varolii in fishes. The restiform columns are expended chiefly in forming the walls of the third ventricle and the base and exterior * The medullary lamina which Valentin describes as crossing the posterior point of the calamus in the Chimccra, may be the homologue of the restiform commissure. Muller’s Archiv. 28. tab. 2. fig. 8, 9. ■f ‘ Lobes creux,’Cuvier, xxin. i. p, 310. But the cerebellum and hypoaria are like- wise ‘hollow lobes,’ and the prosencephala arc hollow in the Lepidosiren and Sharks. 1 ‘ Lobes inferieurs,’ ib. VOL. II. t N