223 DENTAL SYSTEM OP FISHES. tooth to be bent outwards beyond the vertical position, but yield to pressure in the contrary direction, by which the point of the tooth may be directed towards the back of the mouth: the instant, how- ever, that the pressure is remitted, the tooth returns through the elasticity of the bent ligaments, as by the action of a spring, into its usual erect position : the deglutition of the prey of this voracious fish is thus facilitated, and its escape prevented. The broad and generally bifurcate bony base of the teeth of Sharks is attached by ligament to the semi-ossified crust of the cartilaginous jaws ; but they have no power of erecting or depressing the teeth at will. The small and closely crowded teeth of Rays are also connected by ligaments to the subjacent maxillary and mandibular membranes. The broad tesselated teeth of the Myliobates have their attached surface longitudinally grooved to afford them better hold-fast, and the sides of the contiguous teeth are ai’ticulated together by serrated or finely undulating sutures (V, pi. 27.), a structure unique in dental organisation. The teeth of the Sphyrtena are examples of the ordinary implantation in sockets, with the addition of a slight anchylosis of the base of the fully-formed tooth with the alveolar parietes; and the compressed rostral teeth of the Saw-fish are deeply implanted in sockets : the hind margin of their base is grooved, and a corresponding ridge from the back part of the socket fits into the groove, and gives additional fixation to the tooth. Some implanted teeth in the present class have their hollow base further supported, like the claws of the feline tribe, upon a bony process arising from the base of the socket: the incisors of the Ba- listes, e. g., afford an example of this double or reciprocal gomphosis. In fact, the whole of this part of the organisation of fishes is replete with beautiful instances of design, and instructive illustrations of animal mechanics. The vertical section of a pharyngeal jaw and teeth of the Wrasse {Labrus) would afford the architect a model of a dome of unusual strength, and so supported as to relieve from pressure the floor of a vaulted chamber beneath. The base of the domeshaped tooth is slightly contracted, and is implanted in a shallow circular cavity ; the rounded margin of which is adapted to a circular groove in the contracted part of the base; the margin of the tooth which immediately transmits the pressure of the bone is strengthened by an inwardly projecting convex ridge. The masonry of this inner buttress, and of the dome itself, is composed of hollow columns, every one of which is placed so as best to resist or transmit in the due di- rection the external pressure. The floor of the alveolus is thus re- lieved from the office of sustaining the tooth: it forms, in fact, the roof of a lower vault, in which the germ of a successional tooth is in course of development: had the crushing tooth in use, rested, as in the Wolf-fish, by the whole of its base upon the alveolus, the sup-