154 LECTURE VI. But note what a hindrance such a fettering of the movements of the caudal vertebral would be to creatures which progress by alternate vigorous inflections of a muscular tail. A sacrum is a consolidation of a greater or less proportion of the vertebral axis of the body, for the transference of more or less of the weight of the body upon limbs organised for its support on dry land ; such a modifi- cation would have been useless to the fish, and not only useless, but a hindrance and a defect. The pectoral fins, those curtailed prototypes of the fore limbs of other Vertebrata, with the last segment, or hand, alone projecting freely from the trunk, and swathed in a common undivided tegu- mentary sheath, present a condition analogous to that of the embryo buds of the homologous members in the higher Vertebrata. But what would have been the effect if both arm and fore-arm had also extended freely from the side of the fish, and dangled as a long flexible many-jointed appendage in the water ? This higher development, as it is tei'med, in relation to the prehensile limb of the denizen of dry land, would have been an imperfection in the structure of the creature which is to cleave the liquid element: in it, therefore, the fore limb is reduced to the smallest proportions consistent with its required functions: the brachial and antibrachial segments are abrogated, or hidden in the trunk : the hand alone projects and can be applied, when the fish darts forwards, prone and flat, by flexion of the wrist, to the side of the trunk; or it may be extended at right angles, with its flat surfaces turned forwards and backwards, so as to check and arrest more or less suddenly, according to its degree of extension, the progress of the fish ; its breadth may also be dimi- nished or increased by approximating or divaricating the rays. In the act of flexion, the fin slightly rotates and gives an oblique stroke to the watex'. For these functions, however, the hand requires as much extra development in breadth, as I’eduction in length and thickness; and mark how this is given to the so-called embryo or rudimental fore-limb : it is gained by the addition of ten, twenty, ex- it may be even a hundred digital rays, beyond the number to which the fingers are restricted, in the hand of the higher classes of Vertebrata. We find, moreover, as nixmex-ous and striking modi- fications of the pectoral fins, in adjustment to the peculiar ha- bits of the species in Fishes, as we do of the fore limbs in any of the higher classes. Tliis fin may wield a fox-midablc and special weapon of offence, as in many Siluroid fishes. But the modi- fied hands have a more constant secondary office, that of touch, and are applied to ascertain the nature of surrounding objects, and par- ticularly the character of the bottom of the water in which the fish