122 LECTUUE V. jointed ray splits easily into two halves as far as its base, and ap- pears to be essentially a conjoined pair. In the series of Osseous Fishes the rays of the pectoral and ventral fins offer the same modifications as those of the median fins, on which have been founded the division into “ Malacopterygians ” and “ Acan- thopterygiansin the former the last or ulnar fin-ray is usually thicker than the rest; in the latter it is always a hard, unjointed spine : in some fishes it forms a strong pointed or serrated weapon (Silurus). In the Gurnards the three lowest rays are detached and free, like true fingers ; and are soft, multi-articulated, and larger than the rest; they are supplied by special nerves, which come from the peculiar ganglionic enlargements of the spinal chord, and they appear to be organs of exploration. In all the Gurnards the locomotive part of the pectoral member is of large size ; hut in one species {Dacty- lopterus) it presents an unusual expanse, and is able by its stroke to raise and sustain for a brief period the body of the fish in the air. The pectoral fins present a still greater development in the true Flying-fish {Exocoetus). Only in the Polypterus can any segment analogous to a metacarpus be distinguished by modification of structure fi*om the phalangeal portion of the fin-rays : there are seventeen simple cylindrical meta- carpal bones {fig. 41. 57), the middle ones being the longest: they are supported on two carpal bones {ib. 56), almost as remarkable for their length as in the Eophius; a third shorter and broader carpal is wedged into the interspace of the two longer Bones oi pectoral fin of pnes, but does not directly joiii the metacarpus. The carpus is supported by a small radius (55) and ulna (54), which articulate directly with the coracoid. A further approach to the higher conditions of the pectoral member is made by the same Salamandroid Fish in the carpal portion projecting freely from the side of the body, as in the Lophioid Fishes. In the Lepidosiren the diverging appendage of the scapular arch is reduced to the condition of a single jointed ray {fig- 27. 67). From this ele- mentary form, development may be traced in one direction, through osseous and cartilaginous fishes, in the progressive manifestation of irrelative repetition of parts, until the number of jointed rays exceeds a hundred, as in the fishes thence called Rays ; and in another direction, through the didactyle and tridactyle Pe- rcnni-branchiate Reptiles, to the perfection of the more^ normal type of the anterior member in higher Vertebrata; in each class diverging in special directions, more or less, from that