298 UCCTUKK XXI. The inner (mucous) layer of the globular yolk-sac sends from its upper part a caecal process forwards and another backwards, almost co-extensive at first with the trunk above. But their growth is checked by the adhesion of their blind ends to points of the serous layer on the under part of the cephalic and caudal extensions of the trunk : which points of adhesion become perforated, and establish the mouth {fig. 79. a) and vent (ib. i): the intermediate mucous tract forms. quits the ovum with the vitellicle in the form of a vascular oblong appendage from the fore part of the abdomen. In both cases the vitellicle is included, together with the intestinal canal, within the parietes of the abdomen (ib. c), formed by the before-mentioned deve- lopment and coalescence of the laminae ventrales. In the Tench the yolk is divided only by the consti’icted communication with the intestine, and is said to be ‘internal in the Salmon, and, also, in Zoarces and Coitus, the yolk is divided by a second constriction, where it hangs from the ventral integuments ; the part within the abdomen is called the ‘ internal yolk,’ the part without is called the ‘ external yolk.’ The vascular channels, which are excavated in the soft embryonic tissues of both the vertebral and visceral systems, and which convey, at first, a plasma with colourless nucleated cells, unite into a longitu- dinal sinus in the interspace of the two systems, where the aortic trunk {n) and the cardinal veins (/w) are afterwards situated. This, at first simple canal, receives or transmits vascular loops or arches upwards to the laminas dorsales, and downwards to the laminxe ventrales; those of the latter being most conspicuous that spread over the vitellicle : it is here, also, that the red-colour of the circula- ting cells, or blood-discs, is first perceived. The vitelline vessels in osseous fishes are ramifications of a mesenteric vein, analogous to that subsequently established to form the portal system of the liver. The heart is not developed from the longitudinal vessel in the dorsal region of the abdomen. The larger branches, which ramify on the vitellicle, unite into a trunk at its anterior part, which, being Embr}’o Osseous Fish. at first, a short and straight alimentary canal, commu- nicating by a gradually constricted aperture with the remaining yolk-sac (ib. d). In the Cyprinoid fishes the vitellicle is ses- sile ; i. e., it does not hang,as a pedunculate sac, from the exterior of the body: the young Salmon