222 LECTURE IX. {Lahrus), and the Parrot-fishes (^Scarus), have teeth on the pre- maxillary and pre-mandibular, as well as on the upper and lower pharyngeals ; both the anterior and posterior apertures of the mouth being thus provided with instruments for seizing, dividing, or com- minuting the food, the grinders being situated at the pharynx. In most fishes teeth are developed also in the intermediate parts of the oral cavity, as on the palatines, the vomer, the hyoid bones, the branchial arches ; and, though less commonly, on the pterygoids, the entopterygoids, the basi-pre-sphenoid, and even on the nasal bone. It is very rare to find teeth developed on the true superior maxillary bones ; but the Herring and Salmon tribes, some of the Ganoid Fishes and the great Sudis {fig> 36.), are examples of this approach to the higher Vertebrata. Among the anomalous positions of teeth may be cited, besides the occipital alveolus of the Carp (V. pL b'l.Jig. 6.), the marginal alveoli of the prolonged, depressed, well ossified rostrum of the Saw-fish {Pristis, V. pi. 8.) In the Lampreys and in Helostomus (an osseous fish), most of the teeth are attached to the lips. Lastly, it is peculiar to the class Pisces, amongst Vertebrata, to offer ex- amples of teeth developed in the median line of the mouth, as in the palate of the Myxines ; or crossing the symphysis of the jaw, as in Notidanus, Scymnus and Myliobates. Nor is the mode less varied than the place of attachment: some teeth, as those of Lophius, Pcecilia, Anableps, are always moveable : in most fishes they are anchylosed to the jaws by continuous ossi- fication from the base of the dental pulp; the histological transition being more or less gradual from the structure of the tooth to that of the bone. Sometimes we find, not the base, but one side of the tooth anchylosed to the alveolar border of the jaw : and the teeth oppose each other by their sides instead of their summits (Scarus, V, pi. 49.) : in Pimelodus, however, where the teeth are thus attached, the crown is bent down in the upper teeth, and bent up in the lower ones, at right angles to the fang, so that they oppose each other in the normal way. The base of anchylosed teeth is, at first, attached to the jaw-bone by ligament; and in the Cod-fish, Wolf-fish, and some other species, as calcification of the tooth progresses towards its base, the subjacent portion of the jaw-bone receives a stimulus, and developes a process corresponding in size and form with the base of the tooth: for some time a thin layer of ligamentous substance inter- venes, but anchylosis usually takes place to a greater or less extent before the tooth is shed. Most of the teeth of the Lophius retain the primitive ligamentous connection i the ligaments of the laige internal or posterior teeth of the upper and lower jaws, radiate on the corresponding sides of the bone, the base of the tooth resting on a conformable alveolar process. The Hgaments do not permit the