18 INTRODUCTOUY LECTURE. suspended in a pai'ticular compartment of the general cavity of the body, called “thorax,” which is partitioned off from the abdomen by a transverse vaulted muscular floor, called the “ diaphragm,” {fiy. 1. cl). Neither the circulation nor the respiration are quite so active, nor is the animal heat so high, as in the class of Birds : few, indeed, of the Mammalia enjoy the power of flight : most of the class are quadrupeds, as they are commonly called par excellence, and support themselves and move by the action of four feet upon the ground. Some burrow : most can swim, and a few are exclusively adapted for living in water, and have the form of fishes ; in these the hinder limbs are wanting, and the anterior ones present the shape of fins: but all Mammalia breathe the air directly. The colouring particles of the blood are more minute than in birds, and for the most part of a circular form, {fig- 4, a, h). With a few exceptions the jaws of the Mammalia are armed with teeth, variously modified in subserviency to the habits and food of the different species. In like manner the stomach is sim- ple or complex, in relation to the amount of change to be effected in the assimilation of the food : the small intestine is usually divided from the large by the presence of a single coecum, and the rec- tum, with very few exceptions, has its outlet distinct from that of the genital and urinary systems. The kidneys are supplied with blood from the renal arteries exclusively; but the liver continues to receive the superadded system of the vena portae. The secretion of the kidneys is always conveyed to a urinary bladder {fig- 1. u), and the penis is traversed by the urethral canal. All Mammalia intromit in fecundation, and all are viviparous : in most the ovum, after quitting the ovary, becomes a second time at- tached to the parent, through a variously modified cellulo-vascular organ called “ placenta.” The young are nourished after birth by the secretion of glands, called mammary — whence the name of the class. Perhaps the peculiar and constant existence of a well-developed epiglottis, which Aristotle in one of his surprising generalisations states to be present in all hairy viviparous quadrupeds, may have its true relation of physiological co-existence with the mammary glands, being most essential as a defence of the glottis during the act of sucking. The bodies of the vertebra) are united to each other by concen- tric ligaments, attached commonly to flattened surfaces, forming the intervertebral substance. The cervical vertebra) are seven, not varying in number according to the length or sliortness of the neck. Hair is the characteristic clothing of the body ; but almost all the modifi- cations of the epidermal system which we meet with in the inferior vertebrated classes are repeated in tlie present: thus avc have quills