ELECTRIC ORGANS OF FISHES. 215 t I.XXVI. p. 148. j: Lxxxin. racters both of those of the Torpedo and the Gymnotus, and not only in structure, but in some degree, likewise, in regard to the source of their nervous energy, the outer organs being supplied by the ‘ nervus lateralis ’ from the vagus; the laminated inner one receiving branches from the ‘ rami ventrales ’ of the spinal nerves. * The shock com- municated by the Malapterurus electricus is comparatively feeble. When the Neapolitan fishermen pull their nets to shore, their first act usually is to wash the fishes by dashing over them bucketfuls of sea-water ; and if a Torpedo be amongst the captured shoal, it makes its presence instantly felt by the shock transmitted to the arm, Avhich is in the act of discharging the bucket. If the fish be handled, the shock is too strong and painful to be willingly encountered a second time, and the arm remains benumbed for some time. Each repetition of the discharge, however, enfeebles its force, and the surface of the fish capable of communicating the shock progressively contracts, as life departs, to the region of the organs themselves. An animal mustbein communication with the Torpedo by two distinct points, in order to receive the shock. If an insulated and prepared frog I touches the torpedo by the end of a nerve only, no muscular contractions ensue on the discharge of the battery; but a second contact by the end of another nerve, or by a portion of muscle, or any other part of the body, immediately produces them. When the fisher- man dashes the stream of water over the Torpedo, the electric current passes up from the dorsal surface of the batteries against the stream to the man’s hand, and the circle is completed by the earth ex- tending from the man’s feet to the ventral surface of the prone fish. The dorsal surface of the electric organ is always positive, the ventral surface negative.The Torpedo has no power of otherwise directing the electric currents; but Matteucci found that wounding the electric lobes of the brain sometimes reversed the direction. These currents, besides their effects on the living body, exercise all the other known powers of electricity : they render the needle mag- netic §, decompose chemical compounds, and emit the spark. || The discharge of strong currents is usually accompanied by visible con- traction of parts of the body, usually by a retraction of the eyes of the Torpedo, and one muscle {Jig. 45. o) is arranged so as to constrict part of the circumference of each battery; but such con- sentaneous muscular action, though it may add to the force of the discharge, is not essential to its production. The benumbing effect seems to be produced by the rapid succession of shocks delivered by * XCI. § I.XXXI. 11 LXXVI.