f CXXXI. I cxxxu. cxxx. f 296 LKCTUllE XII. MM. Prevost*, Rusconi‘1', and Vogtij; have availed themselves, in the investigation of the nature of that mysterious act, and of the changes thence ensuing in the impregnated ovum of fishes. The first change observed when the ovum falls into the water is a separa- tion of the outer covering, or ‘ chorion,’ from the inner tunic or ‘ membrana vitelli.’ It is probable, from observations on other animals, but not proved in respect to the ova of fishes, that the contents of the sperm-cell (body of the spermatozoon) enter the ovum. After the contact of the spermatozoon with the ova, the fol- lowing changes take place in the germ-vesicle. It loses its unim- pregnated character, becomes opaque, enlarges, and, in the ovum of the Tench, according to Rusconi, forms with surrounding granular matter an intumescence beneath the membrana vitelli. Rusconi does not, indeed, interpret this appearance as due to development and metamorphosis of the germ-vesicle and its nuclei; but Vogt has con- firmed, by observation of the ova of the Corregonus, the important discovery by Barry of the part which the germinal vesicle and its nucleus or nuclei take in the first steps of embryonic development. “ The small granules,” observes Rusconi, “ previously dispersed through the yolk, now become collected at the base of the intu- d c h a mescence {fig. 78, a). Half an hour after the occurrence of this first change, two furrows intersecting each other at right angles appeared at the prominent part of the yolk (ib. d, c). A quarter of an hour later, two other furrows were observed at each side of the first, so that the prominent part of the yolk, which previously was divided into four lobes, now appeared to be formed of eight lobes (ib. d). After the lapse of another quarter of an hour, each of these eight lobes was seen to be subdivided into four smaller lobes, by the for- mation of six fresh furrows, intersecting each other at right angles. At the end of another half-hour, several new furrows appeared, wdiich crossed those which already existed, and subdivided the lobes of the prominent part of the yolk still further, rendering them so small and numerous that it was now' scarcely possible to count them (ib. e). The process continued until the surface of this portion of the yolk regained the smoothness which it had before the first furrow' ap- peared.” If this account, abridged by Professor Muller § from the Memoir of the celebrated Italian physiologist, be compared with the descrip- tion of the first steps in the development of the intestinal worm § Lxxiv. il. p. 1510.