229 DIGESTIVE SYSTEM OF FISHES. anterior jaws were compelled by their services to respiration to leave unfinished : and thus the mouth of typical fishes is closed at both ends by dentigerous jaws. The first portal to the alimentary tract is usually formed by the upper and lower jaws {fig- 61* ^)j their teeth; the Gym- nodonts *, are so called on account of their conspicuous manifestation of this character. But in some Fishes the arched and fortified barrier is preceded by a fosse inclosed by fleshy lips : the whole Labrus owes its name to this peculiarity; the Carp-tribe also have it; and, in some of them, the labial organs are developed to ex- cess, as, for example, in the genus thence Labeoharbus, in which the lips are not only unusually thick and fleshy, but the lower one is produced downwards like a pointed beard. The labiated Fishes have not, however, so distinct a ‘sphincter oris’ as Mammals. Many Fishes, especially those of the Cyprinoid and Siluroid families, have fleshy and sensitive barbs or tentacles in the vicinity of the mouth, and subservient to its functions; those of the Siluroids being supported by bony or gristly stems. Tentacles depend from the rostral prolongation of the Sturgeon, and from the mandibular sym- physis of the God. The Lepidosiren and Cod have fringed processes or filaments between the teeth and lips, which seem designed to assist in testing and selecting the food. Mi’. Couch f narrates an in- stance of a large Cod, in good condition, taken on a line at Polperro, Cornwall, in- which the orbits contained no eyeballs, but were covered with an opake reticulated skin. So that he felt convinced that “ eyes never had existed; ” yet the fish was in good condition, and must have depended on the tactile organs about the mouth for the discovery of its food. The edentulous Sturgeon is compensated by a produced cartila- ginous snout, with which it upturns the mud in quest of food at the bottom of the rivers it frequents. The allied Spatularia, in which a minutely shagreened surface on the jaws represents the whole dental system, has had the force of development of subsidiary organs of ali- mentation expended in the production of the still more remarkable rostrum {Jig- 61. y.), which is broad and flat, like the mandible of a spoonbill, and is more than half the length of the entire body. The conical lip of the suctorial Myxinoids sends off from its ante- rior expanded border six or eight long tentacula: the inner surface of the lips is beset with short branched tentacles in the Ammocete: the Lancelet has more simple, but highly vascular intra-buccal processes {Jig. 46. g g), and the vertically fissured aperture of its mouth is provided on each side with a series of long slender jointed * Gr. gumnos, uncovered ; odous, tooth. f xcviii. p. 72,