289 GENERATIVE SYSTEM OE FISHES. capsules into the abdomen (b), and are excluded by the peritoneal aper- tui'es {ib. I). In all other fishes in which vasa deferentia are absent in the male, oviducts are absent in the female. But it does not always happen, where vasa de- ferentia are developed in the male, that the homologous ducts exist in the female : the Sal- mon is an example in which the ova are dis- charged by dehiscence into the abdominal cavity, and escape by peritoneal outlets, as in the Eel and Lamprey. With this exception, the parallelism of the male and female organs is very close. Thus the ovarium is single in those bony fishes, as the Perch, the Blenny, the Loach and the Ammodyte (prep. 2675. a), in which the testis is single : the median cleft of the ovary of the Ammodyte is deeper than that of the testis, but the continuity of the two seemingly distinct glands is obvious at the upper and lower ends. In most osseous fishes the ovaria form two elongated sacs of mu- cous membrane, with a thin fibrous tunic and a peritoneal covering : closed anteriorly, but produced posteriorly into a short, straight, and commonly wide oviduct, terminating behind the anus, and commonly before the urethra. In the Pipe-fishes the oviducts continue distinct to the cloaca. In most fishes the oviducts coalesce, sooner or later, into a single tube before arriving at the cloaca : the common terminal portion becomes much dilated in the Cod-fish, the Lump-fish, and some others. The ‘ stroma,’ or cellular tissue, which is the seat of development of the ova, is interposed between the mucous and fibrous tunics of the ovarian sac : it sometimes, though rarely, is co- extensive with the mucous membrane. In the Lophius the two ovaria are long and large plicated tubes, fiattened when empty, cylin- drical when inflated, with the ovigerous stroma lining, as it were, only the ventral half of the walls of the cylinder, and terminating where the oviducal portions of each sac unite together to form the common short efferent canal. The inner surface of the ‘ stroma’ is beset by small tubercles, arranged in interrupted linear series, each tubercle supporting four or five papilliform ovisacs. In the Pike the stroma forms a longitudinal strip, in short transverse plaits, along the median side of the long ovarian sacs. In the Wolf-fish the stroma extends over the whole of the internal surface of the ovary, into the cavity of which it projects in the form of numerous oval compressed processes. In general, its superficies is extended by being plaited VOL. II. u Renal and Female Organs: Pelro7fij/zoni Hunter. t