72 LECTURE IV. The Sand-lance {Ammoccetes) presents a condition of the skull which corresponds with this first appearance of the cartilages in the embryo of higher fishes {fig. 24.). The occipital cartilages extend from the sides of the pointed end of the chorda (ib. ch\ and expand into the acoustic capsules {ib. le) : the sphenoidal arches {ib. 5), encompass the pituitary or hypophysial space (%), now closed by a membrano- cartilaginous plate, and unite anteriorly to form a small vomerine plate {ib. 13), in front of which is the single undivided nasal capsule {ib. 19). The now expanded cerebral end of the neural canal {fig. 25. n) is still defended by fibrous membrane only : but is divided from the vomerine plate {ib. 13), by a backward extension of the nasal sac {ib. 19) to the pituitary vesicle. In the Myxine the acoustic capsules are approximated at the base of the skull, near the end of the chorda: the sphenoidal arches are longer, and unite with the palatine plate and arches, from which are sent off the labial cartilaginous processes supporting the buccal ten- tacles, answering to those in the Lancelot. In the long hypophysial interspace of the sphenoidal arches a more or less firm cartilaginous plate is develojied, from which a slender median process is continued forward to the vomerine or palatine plate, which supports the nasal capsule ; another process extends backwards to the occipital cartilage. Other processes are also sent off from the sides, which form a complex system of peculiarly Myxinoid cartilages.* Li the Lamprey {Petromyzon, fig. 26.) the occipital cartilage is continued backwards, in the form of two slender processes (c), upon 26 the under part of the chorda dorsalis (cA) into the cervical ¥ region. The hypophysial space (Ay) in front of the oc- cipital cartilage remains permanently open, but has been converted into the posterior aperture of the naso-palatine canal.f The sphenoidal arches (s) are very short, ap- proximated towards the middle line; and the presphenoid and vomerine cartilage (is) is brought back closer to the sphenoidal arches. Two cartilaginous arches (24) Base of skull circumscribe elliptical spaces outside the presphenoid ■(Mufierf.' appear to represent the pterygoid arches; but, as in the embryo of higher fishes, are not se- parated from the base of the skull by distinct joints. The basal cartilages, after forming the ear-capsules (16) extend upwards upon the sides of the cranium {fig. 11.), arch over its back part, and leave * See Miiller’s masterly Memoir, “ Ueber die Myxinoiden,” Abliandlung. der Berlin. Akad. 1835, p. 105. tab. iii. ^ f Agassiz (xxii.) describes this aperture as“untrcs petit espece presque circu- lairc (k) dans laquelle est logee Thypophyse du cerveau.” The figure to which his letter (e) refers is copied, like mine, from Muller.