142 LECTURE VI. but the true horaologues of the sternum are first seen in the endo-skeleton of the Batrachia. In the Trunk-fishes (^Ostracion), and Pipe-fishes (^Syng7iathus) the dermal scale bones form a con- tinuous coat of mail, like a tessellated quincuncial pavement, over the entire body. In the Lepidosteus the scales defend the body in close- set oblique rows, are thick, completely ossified, and with an exterior hard, shining, enamel-like layer, having the microscopic structure of the hard dentine of Shark’s teeth ; the subjacent osseous part exhibits the radiated corpuscles. I described the organic structure of these so- called ‘ ganoid’ scale bones in 1840, in both recent and extinct fishes, showing that it militated against the theoi’y of development by successive deposition of layers being applied, at least, to ganoid scales. * A like organisation prevails in the tri-radiate dermal bones which support the strong spines of the Diodon ; and in the usually unenamelled, less regularly formed and arranged, dermal ‘ placoid ’ ossicles of Sharks and Rays. The thinner subtransparent scales of ordinary Osseous Fishes are either sub-circular and with entire margins as in the Carp, when they are called ‘ cycloid,’ or have the outer and hinder margin dentated or spined, as in the Perch, when they are called ‘ ctenoid.’ We have seen that the primary classi- fication of fishes in the system of M. Agassiz, is based on these vai’ious modifications of the dermal skeleton. One of the interesting generalisations which has risen out of the vast series of researches on Fossil Fishes to which this eminent Naturalist has devoted himself, is the discovery of the progressive predominance of the exo-skeleton over the endo-skeleton as we descend into the strata of the earth, or, in other words, penetrate into past time in quest of the species that have been successively blotted out in the revolutions of the globe. At the present day the Placoids or Plagiostomous cartilaginous fishes form a small minority of the class ; and amongst the existing majority of fishes called, from the advanced development of their internal skeleton, ‘ Osseous,’ only two genera exhibit that kind of scale called ‘ ganoid : ’ one of these, the Lepidostetis, is peculiar to North America ; the other, the Fohjpterus, to Africa: both are fresh-water fishes. As we descend to the older tertiary deposits the number of Ganoid Fishes increases, their geo- graphical relations expand, and their sphere of life was extended to the salt waters of the ocean. Thus Ichthyolites with a dense imbricated armour of polished bony scales occur in the marine deposits of the eocene age in oui own * Odontography, part i. p. 15.