LECTURE XII. 292 fi’om the internal surface of the dilated part ot the oviduct. Professor Muller has well described the corresponding foetal cotyledons which are developed from the vitellicle of the embryo. In reviewing the various forms of the Generative Organs of Fishes, we find that they resolve themselves into four well-marked grades of complexity. First, reduced to the essential gland, the testis, or the ovarium, without excretory canal. Secondly, with a simple duct, continuous with testis or ovarium. Thirdly, a partial oviduct, as in the Sturgeon, not continuous with the ovarium, and not separated from the ureter. Fourth, a more compact form of testis and ovarium, with a long and complex duct, distinct from the ureter ; the beginning of the vas deferens convoluted into an epididymis and its end dilated into a seminal reservoir, with a plicated glandular inner surface; the oviduct presenting a nidamental gland near its commencement and dilating into an interior receptacle, with a plicated surface at its ter- minal half. Besides the ‘claspers’ of the Plagiostomes, there are other accessory organs of generation ; viz. the subcaudal marsupial tegumentary folds in the male of some species of Syngnathus (preps. 3226—3228), and the suh-abdominal marsupial pouch in the male Hippocamps (preps. Nos. 3230 and 3231). DEVELOPMENT OF FISHES. This, the most intricate and ditficult, hut the most interesting part of the physiology of fishes, is divided, as in other animals, into seven distinct processes: — 1. Semination, or the development of the im- pregnating corpuscles called seminal animalcules, or ‘spermatozoa — 2. Germination, or the development of the germ or ovum susceptible of impregnation : — 3. Fecundation, or the act of impregnation, which is sometimes, though rarely in the present class, accompanied by intromission: — 4. Fcetation, or development of the embryo within the ovum or uterus :—5. Extrication, or escape of the embryo from the ovum: — 6. Exclusion, or expulsion of the generative product from the parent:—7. Groivth, or development from the period of exclusion, or of extrication from a previously excluded ovum, to maturity. Exclusion of the male generative product is called ‘ emission that of the female generative product, ‘ oviposition that of the previously extricated embryo, ‘ birth: ’ but these are modifications of the same essential process. The stages of development do not succeed each other as here enumerated, in all fishes: in the Dermopteri and most osseous fishes ‘exclusion’ precedes ‘fecundation,’ ‘fcetation,’ and ‘extrication.’ In a few osseous fishes and a larger proportion of the Plagiostomes, ‘ fecundation,’ ‘ fcetation,’ and ‘ extrication ’ precede