210 LECTURE VIII. Scarpa may be pardoned for overlooking them, though scarcely for the warmth with which he repudiates their existence.* The ‘ meatus vestibuli ’ 59, p) is provided at its bent extremity with a special muscle (ib. w). A true tympanic cavity and membrane, together with a cochlea, are absent in all Fishes. But in many Osseous species a com- munication is established, either by tubular prolongations, or by chains of ossicles between the acoustic labyrinth and the air-bladder. Weber f discovered the latter interesting structure in the Carp, Loach, and Sheat-fish. A canal is sent from the sac of each ves- tibule 58, h), to a common ‘ sinus impar’ (ib. li) in the sub- stance of the basi-occipital: this communicates on each side by a small orifice with two subspherical ‘atria,’ on the body of the atlas, close to the foramen magnum, which ‘atria’ are supported externally by the ossicles I and w, and, by means of the large ossicle 0, are brought into communication with the fore part of the air-bladder (p). Both the atria and common sinus are filled by the endolymph, and from the fore part of the sinus a ‘ canalis furcatus ’ (ib. i) is produced, the blind ends of which penetrate the alisphenoids. In the groveling Loach (Cobitis barbatula), the air-bladder would seem to exist chiefiy in subserviency to the organ of hearing. It is so small as to be wholly included within the singularly modified pai'apophyses of the second and third cervical vertebrge, Avhich are expanded and coalesced so as to form a large ‘bulla ossea ’ beneath their centrums.:}: The three ossicles on each side, which bring the air-bladder into communication with the ‘ atria ’ of the labyrinth, are also concealed by the fore part of the parapophysial bulla3: it is plain, therefore, that they are not dismemberments of those lateral or transverse apophyses of the vertebrae ; and, with regard to their relation to the ‘ ossicula auditus ’ of the tympanic cavity in Mammalia, Weber mistook a relation of analogy for one of homology, when he called them ‘ malleus,’ ‘ incus,’ and ‘ stapes.’ They belong, like the capsules of the special organs of sense, to the ‘ splanchnoskeleton.’ And since the vestibule is prolonged by the ‘ atria ’ int(^,the neural canal of the atlas, this vertebra must be added, in the Cyprinoid and Siluroid Fishes, to the parts of the cranial verte- Hearin<» in Fishes ” was printed in the volume of the Philosophical Transactions for 1782, not, as Breschet states, in the year 1786. (lviii. p. 58.) _ “ Hunterum autem atque Monroum vehementer super hac re sibi hallucinatos fiiisse.” (lx. pp. 1, 2.) I LX XIII. 1 Mr. Yarrell, who has given a figure of these singularly modified parapophyses of the Loach (lxxix. i. p. 380.) compares them to ‘scapulas; ’ but I find the pec- toral fins attached to the true scapular arch, and this suspended as usual to the paroccipitals, in the Colitis barbatula.