92 I.ECTUUE V. logy of the supra-occipital with the supernumerary ‘ interparietal ’ bone of Mammals, beyond the anteriorly produced portion, whicli, however, is not developed from a separate centre in Fishes. When the skull is much compressed, the occipital spine is usually very lofty, and in the Light-horse-man fish {Ephippus), expands above its origin into a thick crest of bone, giving the skull the appearance of a helmet; but in low fiattened skulls the spine is much reduced, projecting merely backwards in the Pike and Salmon, and being sometimes obsolete, as in the Remora ; in a few instances the broad posterior pai't of the supra-occipital ax’ticulates with the neural arch and spine of the atlas, and sometimes on the other hand, e. g. in the Holibut, the entire bone is pushed by the par-occipitals upon the upper surface of the skull, where it manifests the loss of symme- li’y by the absence of the expanded plate on the left side of the spine, which immediately articulates with the left paidetal. The par-occipitals (par-apophyses of the occipital vertebra, fig. 30 and 31.4, 4), are always wedged into the angles between the ex- and supra-occipitals : they are of a sub-rhomboidal or conical form, with the base towards the cranial cavity and the apex turned outwards and backwards. The outer surface, in the Cod, is traversed obliquely by a prominent ridge, ending at the lower and hinder projecting angle : in the Carp the process is short, and comes from the middle of the outer surface. In broad and depressed skulls the par-occipital forms a strong crest, and exceeds the ex-occipital in size : in narrow and deep skulls the proportions of these bones are commonly reversed, and the par-occipitals sometimes disappear; but in Ephippus, they are as large as the ex-occipitals. In the Shad the par-occipitals unite with the mastoids almost as in the Chelonia: and in the Poly- pterus they become anchylosed to the ex-occipitals, as in Batrachian Reptiles. In Synodus, Callichthys, and Heterobranchus, the par-occipital is visible only at the back part, not at the upper part of the skull. The inner surface of the par-occipital, like that of the ex-occipital, is excavated for the lodgment of part of the posterior and exter- nal semicircular canal of the enormous internal organ of hearing in Fishes. The outer projecting process sujxports the upper fork of the first piece of the scapular arch, sometimes, as in Ephippus, by a distinct articular cavity. The parts of the occipital vertebra are those which are commonly in Fishes the most completely ossified at the expense of their primitive cartilaginoxis basis, and, in the Poly- pterus, they become anchylosed into one piece, like the occipital