168 LECTURE VII. The pubic ax’ch supporting the ventral fins, is attached in the Perch by a pair of slender longitudinal muscles {w) to the prolonged hiemal arch, sometimes called ‘ pelvis,’ of the first caudal, and which, in its course to the pubic arch, surrounds 'the anus : the length of these muscles is moderate in the ventral fishes, considerable in the thoracic, and extreme in the jugular fishes, in which they simulate the ‘ recti abdominis.’ It is probable that the external ‘ sphincter ani ’ of Mammals is the reduced homologue of these muscles. In general homology they must be viewed as the lowest ventral strip of a single myocomma, more or less developed in accommodation to the varying distance between the last abdominal and first caudal, its proper, hternal arches, which variation relates to the olRce required to be performed by the ventral fins, or appendages of the last abdomi- nal hajmal arch, in the different species of fishes. The protractors of the pubic arch are attached, when present, to the apex of the coracoid arch. Transverse muscles extend fi'om one pubic bone to the other ; and similarly disposed special muscles serve to contract the span of the mandibular and hyoidean arches. The levators and depressors of the ventral fin are inserted, as in the pectorals, by as many fasciculi as there are digital rays. The deeper seated fibres of the segments, which together .constitute the great lateral muscular masses of the trunk, alter slightly their direction, and, in the abdomen, represent the ‘ intercostals,’ passing from one vertebral rib to another, and from one aponeurotic repre- sentative of the sternal rib (inscriptio tendinea, h,p.) to another. The myocommata answering to the neural and haemal spines of the suppressed centres of the terminal caudal vertebrae, change their di- rection like those spines, slightly diverging from the axis of the trunk to be inserted into them: these modified terminal segments (z), by their connection with the interlocked myocommata of the great lateral masses, concentrate the chief force of those muscles upon the caudal fin. Special series of small dermal muscles are inserted into the rays of the dorsal, anal, and caudal fins: the dorsal and anal rays have each six fasciculi, two superficial (x) and four deep-seated (y), which rise from the expanded dagger-shaped interneural and interhiemal spines. Beneath the muscles of the tail-fin which terminate the lateral series of myocommata, there are long and slender fasciculi which rise di- rectly from the compressed coalesced bodies of the terminal caudal vertebrae, and are inserted into the bases of the diverging rays. Other small muscles pass from the bases to act upon the more distant parts of the rays. Slender longitudinal muscles, ‘ supra carinales,’ extend along the midline of the back from the occiput to the first dorsal, and