284 LECTURE XL its termination immediately behind the advanced vent. The urinary bladder is sometimes round {^Jig. 72. i), sometimes oval or pyriform, often bifid at its fundus or two-horned ; it is largest in those fishes, as the Pleuronectidce, the Lophius, the Orthagoriscus, and the Cy- clopteriis, in which the air-bladder is absent. In the Callyomymus the bifid urinary bladder extends the whole length of the abdomen It always lies behind the rectum, generally receives the ureter or ureters nearer its fundus than its cervix, and the latter is prolonged usually into a prominent papilla behind the vent. The long cervix vesicm in the Salmon is surrounded by a venous plexus. In the Sturgeon the wide ureters extend along the outer borders of the kidneys, and receive the vasa deferentia or oviducts in their course towards the cloaca, where they unite into a short duct which forms the common outlet of the urinary and generative products. The kidneys are long, narrow, but distinct from each other in all the ganoid fishes and in the Lepidosiren. In the Lophius the kidneys present a more compact form, and are situated wide apart, far forwards in the abdomen, in depressions on either side of the origins of the ‘ retractores palati.’ The kidneys of the Plagiostomes are also of a more compact form than in osseous fishes, and are always distinct, and generally show a cerebriform convoluted or lobulated exterior : the primary branches of the uriniferous tubes are fewer, and their dichotomous ramifications more numerous *: the ureteric trunk becomes superficial along the inner and fore-part of the hinder half of each kidney; after quitting which it dilates in the Grey Shark (Galeus) into a kind of receptacle behind each oviduct or vas deferens, and communicating with its fellow near the cloaca, terminates by a single urethral canal upon a kind of penis or clitoris {fig. 75. k) at the back of the anus, within a large common cloaca. In the Torpedo, the ureters terminate on the cloacal papilla by two distinct orifices.^ In the Skate and Thorn- back each ureter terminates in the neck of a short bifid bladder: these open by a common urethra upon the cloacal papilla. The Lepi- dosiren has a small urinary bladder situated, as in all fishes, behind the rectum and in front of the oviducts: the ureters do not com- municate directly with it, but terminate separately on small papill® in the oviducal compartment of the cloaca.With regard to the circulation in the kidney in those fishes, as e. g. the Plagiostomes the Lophius and the Lepidosiren, in which the organ is best defined, the vein on the outer side of the kidney which receives blood from • In the Ray the diameter of the terminal branches of the tubulL uriniferi arc ',th of an inch, that of the capillary renal arteries being ^g’^gth of an inch. f cxxxiv. 1 XXXIII. pi. 27.