NERVOUS SYSTEM OF FISHES. 201 with a valve. In the Lamprey the flask-shaped nasal sac opens upon the top of the head: a simple membranous tube is continued from the expanded bottom of the sac, which dilates as it descends, but terminates in a blind end at the hypophysial vacuity 26. hy) of the base of the skull, where the mucous membrane of the palate passes over it entire and imperforate.* In all Fishes, save the Dermopteri, the olfactory organs are double: and they have no communication with the mouth. In Osseous Fishes they are situated on the sides of the snout, and are covered by the skin, which is usually pierced by two openings for each sac: the Chromides, and all the Wrasses with ctenoid scales, have a single opening for each nose sac ; the anterior aperture in tlie biperforate sacs is often produced into a tubular process, which acts either by muscular power, or some modification of form, as a valve. It is provided with a moveable cartilage in the Conger; and the tubular nostrils of the Cyclopterus are in perpetual motion in the living fish. Both apertures in some Lophioid fishes are bell-shaped and pedunculate. Li some Siluri a tentacle is continued from the external nasal tube. When the nasal sac is round, the pituitary plicm radiate from its centre : when the sac is elongated, it is usually traversed by an axial partition with a row of transverse folds on each side. In a few Fishes these folds are further complicated by secondary processes. The Sturgeon presents the radiated type of the olfactory organ with secondary folds ^fig- 43. 19); but, like the Polypterus and Lepidosteus, each nasal sac has a double aperture. The Lepidosiren has an elongated nasal sac, with the bi-serial arrangement of pituitary folds, and with a double aperture (yfig. 54. oV); but neither of these communicate with the mouth : the peculiar position of the nasal sacs on the under part of the thick upper lip, may have deceived the German naturalists who have affirmed the reptilian nature of this animal on the erroneous supposition that the posterior aperture of the nasal sac communicated with the mouth : the cartilaginous capsule of the sac is fissured, or barred, reminding one of the more complex nasal cartilage in the Myxine.f In the Pla- giostomes the nasal cavities are situated beneath the snout, near the angles of the mouth, especially in the Rays: each cavity has a single and commonly wide opening, defended by valvular processes, • XXI. p. 4ii. ; figs. ii. and iv. ■f In the fir.st specimen of Lepidosiren annectens which served for my description of its anatomy in 1839, partial decomposition of the upper lip had destroyed the soft membrane extended over the mouth of the olfactory sac, which led me to the belief that it had but one opening ; the second, or posterior openinff, is outside the^maxillary teeth.