243 DIGESTIVE SYSTEM OE EISIIES. Polypterus, the Doiy, the Coryphene, the Chaitoclonts, and the Cod- tribe. In the Whiting the two chief lobes extend the whole length of the abdomen. The liver is trilobed in the Corvina, the Clupeoid and the Cyprinoid fishes : in many of the latter family it almost con- ceals the convoluted intestinal canal. The broad and flat liver of the Raiidm is trilobed. The liver is much subdivided in the Sand-lance and in the Tunny, in which latter fish it presents remarkable modi- fications of the vascular system. * There are few avell-established exceptions to the general rule of the presence of a gall-bladder in the class of Fishes. My dissections confirm the statement of its absence in the Lump-fish by Cuvier f and Wagner. J Cuvier did not detect a gall-bladder in Lates niloticus, Holocentrum Sogho, Sphy- rcena Barracuda, Trigla Lyra, Tr. Cuculus, Corvina dentex, Gli- phisodon saxatilis, Lepidopics argenteics, Labrus turdus, Ammodytes, and Eehineis remora. The gall-bladder is wanting in the Ammocete and Lamprey, but exists in the Myxinoids; it is absent in the Pristis, Zygcena, and Selache, but is present in Galeus, and others of the Shark-tribe. I have studied the rich series of observations recorded by Cuvier § and his able Editors || on the gall-bladder and gall- ducts in fishes without obtaining a clue to the law of the develop- ment of the special receptacle of the biliary secretion in fishes. The pouch in which the aggregated hepatic ducts terminate in the Selache maxima may compensate for the absence of the gall-bladder in that Shark; these ducts are enclosed in a broad flat band of dense cellular tissue l^fig. 65, 1.), which passes obliquely down in front of the stomach as far as the duodenum, Avhen each of the ducts opens by a separate oblique orifice into a common cavity (ib. m.) of an oval form, communicating with the duodenum by a single opening. The gall-bladder is usually situated towards the fore-part of the liver, and attached to the right lobe when this exists (as in fig. 61. m\ In some Cyprinoids and Rays, and in the Sturgeon, it is imbedded in the substance of the liver. In many Chastodonts and Salmonoids, in the Sword-fish, in the Eel and the Murasna, it hangs freely at some distance from the liver. I found the gall-bladder three inches from the liver in a Lophius of two feet in length. The size of the gall-bladder varies in different fishes : it is very small in most Rays ; in Osseous Fishes it usually bears a direct relation to that of the liver itself. It is pyriform in the Lophius, Mullet, Sea-perch (Sebastes), Pike, Sturgeon, Planirostra, and most other Fishes : it is subspherical in tlie Gray-shark {Galeus), and in the Wolf-fish: it is like a long- necked flask in Polypterus; is bent like a retort in Xiphias, and is * Eschriclit, ci. •[• xiii. t. iv. p. SHU | xi.vii. § xxiir. passim. || xjii. t. iv. pt, ii. p. 559—5G9.