DENTAL SYSTEM OF FISHES. 221 the Wrasse {Labrus, V, pi. AS.Jig. 4.). Sometimes the hemispheric teeth are so numerous, and spread over so broad a surface, as to resemble a pavement {Chrysophrys, V, pi. AS.figs. 3. 6 ; and Pisodus, pi. 47. ^g. 3.); or they may be so small, as well as numerous {dentes graniformes'), as to give a granulated surface to the part of the mouth to which they are attached (premaxillaries of Labrus, V, pi. 45. 1.). A progressive increase of the transverse over the vertical diameter may be traced in the molar teeth of different fishes, and sometimes in those of the same individual, as in Labrus (V, pi. 45. Jig. 4) and Placodus (V, pi. 30.), until the cylindrical form is exchanged for that of the depressed plate. Such dental plates {dentes lamelli- formes) may be found, not only circular, but elliptical, oval, semilunar, sigmoid, oblong, and even, as above-mentioned, square, hexagonal, pentagonal, or triangular; and the grinding surface presents as various and beautiful kinds of sculpturing. The broadest and thinnest lamelliform teeth are those that form the complex grinding tubercle of the Diodon (V, pi. 3S.Jig. 2.). The front teeth of the Flounder and Sargus present the form of compressed plates, at least in the crown, and are true ‘ dentes incisivV Numerous wedge-shaped dental plates {dentes cuneati) are set vertically in the pharyngeal bones of the Parrot-fish (Scarus, V, pi. 51.). A thin lamella, slightly curved like a finger-nail, is the singular form of tooth in an extinct genus of fishes, which I have thence called Petalodus (V, pi. 22. Jigs. 3, 4, 5.) Sometimes the incisive form of tooth is notched in the middle of the cutting edge, as in Sargus unimaculatus (V, pi. \ .Jig. 9.). Sometimes the edge of the crown is trilobate {^Aplodactylus, ib.Jig. 10.). Some- times it is made quinquelobate by a double notch on each side of the large middle lobe {^Boops, ib.Jig. 11.). In the formidable Sea-pike {^Sphyrcena Barracuda, V, pi. 53.) the crown of each tooth, large and small, is produced into a compressed and sharp point, and resembles a lancet. Sometimes the edges of such lancet-shaped teeth are finely serrated, as in Priodon (V, pi. l.y?y. 12.), and the great Sharks of the genus Carcharias, the fossil teeth of which indicate a species ( Carch. Megalodon) sixty or seventy feet in length. The lancet is changed for the stronger spear-shaped tooth in the Sharks of the genus Lamna, and in the allied great extinct Otodus, as in the small Porbeagle, similarly shaped, but stronger, piercing and cutting teeth were accompanied by one or more accessory com- pressed cusps on each side their base, like the Malay crease. With respect to situation, the teeth, in Sharks and Rays, are limited to tlie bones (maxillary and mandibular), which form the anterior aperture of the mouth: in the Carp and other Cyprinoids the teeth are confined to the bones which circumscribe the posterior aperture of the mouth, viz. the pharyngeals and basi-occipital. The Wrasses