257 VASCULAR SYSTEM OP FISHES. The ventricle 61. (7) usually presents the form of a four-sided pyramid, one side dorsad towards the auricle ; one angle ventrad, and the base forwards. In tlie Lepidosteus and Polypterus, however, it is pyriform : in the Pike it is lozenge-shaped: in the Lophius, as in the Myxinoids and Lampreys, it is oval; in most Plagiostomes its transverse diameter is the longest, as if preparatory to a division. Its cavity is, however, simple in all fishes. The parietes of the ven- tricle are very muscular, and the fibres are redder than those of any other part of the muscular system; but the colour is less deep in the ground-fishes than in those that swim nearer the surface, and enjoy more active locomotion and respiration. The exterior muscular fibres decussate and interlace together irregularly and inextricably; but the deeper-seated ones form more regular layers, the innermost being transverse and circular, and separating readily by slight decomposi- tion from the outer and more longitudinal layers. Some of the in- ternal fasciculi send off the ‘chordas tendineas’ above mentioned in the Sturgeon ; but in almost all other fishes those ‘ chords ’ are absent, and the auricular valve is free. In most osseous fishes the orifice at the base of the bulbus arteriosus is provided with a pair of semilunar valves (prep. 606.): the Sun-fish (prep. 905.) has four such valves there. But the Ganoids, Holocephali, and Plagiostomes have two or more transverse rows of semilunar valves attached to the inner surface of their long and muscular bulbus arteriosus. The prepara- tion, No. 911., shows two rows of three valves in the Grey Shark (Galeus); the same is found in the Blue Shark (Carcharias), in the Dog-fish ( Scyllium), and in the Chimmroids : the Amia has two rows of six valves : in the genera Spliyrna, Mustelus, Acanthias, Alopias, Lamna, Rhinohatus, Torpedo, and Accipenser, there are three rows of valves : the preparation of the Sturgeon’s heart (No. 908.) shows five valves in the anterior row, and four valves in each of the other rows; and the free margins of the valves are connected by short ‘ chordaj tendinese’ to the parietes of the bulb. The genera Hexanthus, Heptanchus, Centrophorus, and Trygon have four rows of valves. The preparation of the heart of the Raici Batis (No. 909.) shows five rows, the valves increasing in size to the last row, which is at the termina- tion of the bulb. Scymnus, Squatina, and Myliohates have also five rows of valves. In the Cephaloptera the large bulbus arteriosus* presents internally three longitudinal angular ridges, at the sides of which are small valves disposed in pairs, and in four or five rows: besides these there are three larger valves at the beginning, and three at the end of the bulb. The valves are still more numerous in the I found its cavity more capacious than that of the contracted ventricle. A'OL. II. S