86 LECTURE V. angulai* processes; the lower border of the orbit, when present, projects freely downwai'ds; and the posterior border of the bony operculum is often produced backwards in the form of spines. It would seem ah almost hopeless task to attempt to arrange naturally and determine satisfactoinly the numerous bones of this most complex part of the skeleton of Fishes, so as to convey as clear and tenable a knowledge of them as the Anthropotomist does of the human skull: we need but glance, indeed, at the labours which Com- parative Anatomists of the highest merit have bestowed on the cra- niology of Fishes, in order to. appreciate its difficulty, and at the same time its importance. By these labours, however, of which the best summary will be found in Cuvier’s great work on Recent Fishes (xxiii. t. i.), and in Agassiz’s most valuable and original Histoxy of Fossil Fishes* (xxii.), not only has the descriptive osteology of the head of Fishes been rendered as complete and minute as that of the human skull, but it may be truly avei’red to be more intelligible, more philosophical, more agreeable with the natural arrangement and true signification of the series of bones of which that complex part of the skeleton is composed. It must be confessed that, in this respect, Ichthyotomy, as true anatomical science, is at present in ad- vance of Anthropotomy. After an attentive study of the original authors in this field of Anatomy, testing their extensive series of compai'isons of the per- manent forms of the skull in the higher Vertebrate classes, and the transitory foetal conditions of each, with the results of my own ob- servations, I have been led to the following view of the craniology of Fishes. The bones of the skull are primarily divided, in Anthi-opotomy, into those of the cranium and those of the face; but the propoitions which these divisions bear to each other in Man are revei'sed in Fishes. According to this binary classification, the facial seides in Fishes includes an extensive system of bones — the hyoid—of which part only, viz. the ‘ styloid element,’ is admitted into the skull by the Anthropotomist, who describes it as a process of the ‘ temporal bone.’ This very ‘ temporal,’ moreover, is originally and essentially an assemblage of bones, which are always distinct in Fishes and Reptiles; and the squamous part, which enters so largely into the * The general results of the study of the skull of Fishes are briefly but clearly given in the recent compcndiums of Comparative Anatomy, by Dp Cams (xxxiv.), Prof. Grant (xxviii.), Prof, llymer Jones (xxix.), and Dr. Kdstlin (xxxy.). The generally accepted views of the classification and homolog.es of the cranial bones are those adopted in the very useful “ Elements of the Comparative Anatomy of the Vertebrate Animals,” by the learned Gottingen Profc.ssor (Wagner), ably translated by Mr. Tulk (Longmans, 8vo. 184.5).