146 LECTURE VI. tion of the same parts, in the higher species. But these analogies have been frequently overstated, or pi’esented under unqualified me- taphorical expressions, calculated to mislead the student and to ob- struct the attainment of true conceptions of their nature. We should lose some most valuable fruits of anatomical study were we to limit the application of its facts to the elucidation of the unity of the Vertebrate type of organisation, or if we were to rest satisfied with the detection of the analogies between the embryos of higher and the adults of lower species in the scale of being. We must go further, and in a different direction, to gain a view of the beautiful and fruit- ful physiological principle of the relation of each adaptation to its appropriate function, and if we would avoid the danger of mistaking analogy for homology or identity, and of attributing to inadequate hypothetical secondary causes the manifestations of Design, of supreme Wisdom and Beneficence, which the various forms of the Animal Creation offer to our contemplation. To revert, then, to the skeleton of Fishes, with a view to the teleo- logical application of the facts determined by the study of this com- plex modification of the animal framework. No doubt there is analogy between the cartilaginous state of the endo-skeleton of Cuvier’s Chondropterygians, and that of the same part in the embryos of air- breathing Vertebrates; but why the gristly skeleton should be, as it commonly has been pronounced to be, absolutely inferior to the bony one is not so obvious. The ordinary course of age and decrepitude, or of what may be called the decay of the living body, is associated with a progressive accumulation of earthy and inorganic particles, gradually impeding and stiffening the movements, and finally stopping the play of the vital machine. And I know not why a flexible vascular animal substance should be supposed to be raised in the histological scale because it has become impregnated, and as it were petrified, by the abundant intus-susception of earthy salts in its areolar tissue. It is perfectly intelligible that this accelerated progress to the inorganic state may be requisite for some special office of such calcified parts in the individual economy; but not, therefore, that it is an absolute ele- vation of such parts in the series of animal tissues. It has been deemed no mean result of Compai’ative Anatomy to have pointed out the analogy between the shark’s skeleton and that of the human embryo, in their histological conditions; and no doubt it is a very interesting one. But can no insight be gained into the purpose of the all-wise Creator, in so arresting the ordinary course of osteogeny in the highly organised fish ? Are we to entertain no other view of it than as an unfinished, incomplete stage of an hypothetical serial develoj)inent of organic forms ?