DERMAL BONES OP PISHES. 133 K 3 tlic hypo-tympanics {ib. 28), which are attached principally to the pterygoid processes and the back part of the cartilaginous joint of the lower jaw. The mouth of the Sturgeon opens, as in Sharks, upon the under surface of the head, and is protruded and retracted chiefly by the movements of the tympanic pedicle, which swings, like a pendulum, from its point of suspension to the post-orbital process. Tlie hyoid arch is also small and simple in the Sturgeon. The epi-hyal is short and attached to near the upper end of the hypo- tympanic. The cerato-hyal (ib. 4o) of thrice the length, is expanded above, and is attached by ligament extending from that part to near the joint of the lower jaw. The basi-hyal is a short sub-cubical piece : it gives attachment anteriorly to cerato-hyals, and posteriorly to the anterior basi-branchial and hypo-branchial cartilages. The three first branchial arches consist of hypo-branchials, pro- gressively decreasing in size, of cerato-branchials, epi-branchials, and pharyngo-branchials: the fourth arch consists of cerato-branchials and epi-branchials: the fifth arch of cerato-branchials only. In an old Accipenser Sturio I found the tympanic pedicle in two pieces, and partly ossified. The epi-tympanic was cartilaginous where it articulated with the post-frontal and mastoid, the osseous part commencing at a definite transverse plane. This, as it de- scended, expanded, and reverted to the cartilaginous state, forming a broad triangular flattened plate, which supported the large opercular dermal bone: the hypo-tympanic was a simple strong cylindrical car- tilage, giving attachment to the hyoid near its upper end, and to the ligaments suspending the palatine and mandibular arches at its lower end. The cartilaginous representation of the par-occipital projects boldly backwards from each angle of the occiput. A triangular supra-scapular cartilage (ib. so) has the angles of its base slightly produced, one being articulated to the end of the par-occipital, the other to the ex-occipital region. To the apex is attached the sca- pulo-coracoid arch (ib. 51, 52), which is completed below, as in Lcjn- dosiren, by ligamentous union, not, as in Sharks, by cartilaginous confluence. The scapulo-coracoid cartilage expands as it descends, sends inwards and forwards a broad wedge-shaped plate, and presents a large perforation at its thick posterior part, answering probably to the perforated ulna of Osseous Fishes, here confluent Avith the arch. The pectoral fin is articulated to the under pai’t of this perforated projection: the coracoid terminates below by sending inwai’ds and forwards a broad and thin plate beneath the pericardium, which is joined by strong aponeurosis to that of the opposite coracoid. There