6 INTRODUCTORY LECTURE. axis, forming the centre of support to the whole frame, and from which all the motive powers radiate, and this axial cylinder {Jig. 1. v) is called the “Vertebral Column; ” vertebral, as consisting of seg- ments of the skeleton, which turn one upon the other, and as being the centre on which the whole body can bend and rotate; from the Latin “ verto, verterej to turn. Ideal section of a Vertebrate (Mammalian) animal. The vertebrated animals have the nei’vous matter concentrated in this vertebral case, which expands at certain parts, where the largest currents of sensation enter, and those of volition go out; and more especially at the anterior or upper extremity, where the impres- sions to be appreciated by the nervous centre are the most varied and the most distinct. The expanded mass of nervous matter, at this part, is called the brain {Jig. 1. b), the rest of the nervous axis, the spinal chord, {ch, cii) ; whence the highest primary group of animals is called “ Myelencephala,” from the Greek words signifying brain and spinal marrow. The prolongations and ramifications from these centres, forming the internuntiate channels of sensation and the will, are the nerves. There are five special modifications of sensation in the vertebrated animals, three of which have special nerves, viz. smell {ol), sight {ojj), and hearing {au). Taste {t) appears to be less generally enjoyed by the Vertebrata, and its nerve is a large branch of an ordinary nerve, the fifth pair. Feeling, which, in its more exquisite degree, constitutes touch, seems a common property of all those nervous fila- ments, which, passing into the posterior columns of the central axis, are continued to the brain. Speaking generally, such are the attri- butes of the recipient or sensitive portion of the nervous axis in the Vertebrated animals. They can take cognisance of all the imiiressing powers which surround them ; as the character and resistance of the surface which supports them, tlie flavour and fitness of the substances which nourish them, the purity of the atmosphere which tlicy breathe,