275 AIR-IU.ADDEK OF FTSIIKS. abdominal aorta, sometimes from the cceliac artery, sometimes from the last branchial vein ; and in the Lepidosiren they are continued from the aortic termination of the two non-ramified branchial arteries ^Jig. 71. T), and, therefore, convey venous blood to the cellular, lung- like, double air-bladder. The veins of the air-bladder return, in some fishes, to the portal vein; in some, to the hepatic vein; in some, to the great cardinal vein ; and, in the Lepidosiren (ib. ]i'\ they pene- trate, by a common trunk, the great post-caval vein (ib. e), formed by the confluence of the visceral and vertebral veins of the trunk ; but instead of terminating there, the pulmonary venous trunk passes forwards, through the sinus and auricle, to the entry into the ven- tricle, and there terminates above the valvular cartilaginous tubercle. Thus the aerated blood from the lungs enters the ventricle directly, instead of being previously mixed with the venous blood in the auricle. The vascular system of the lung-like air-bladders of the Proto- pterous and Ganoid fishes forms no ‘ retia mirabilia ’ or vaso-gan- glions, but resolves itself into a generally diffused reticular capillary system, which is much richer and closer in the more subdivided and thicker cellular structure of the anterior than of the posterior parts of the bladders in the Lepidosiren. In the osseous fishes the principal forms of the terminal divisions of the arteries of the air-bladder are as follows : — 1 st. A resolution of the smaller ramifications into fan-like tufts of capillaries over almost every part of the inner surface (Carp). 2d. The formation of similar, but larger and more localised, radiating tufts (Pike) ; in both without any special aggregation of the capillaries to form a ‘ vaso-ganglion.’ 3d. The conversion of the tufts by rapid subdi- vision into capillaries aggregated so as to form red gland-like bodies; the capillaries reuniting into larger vessels, which again ramify richly round the border of the gland-like body ; the rest of the inner sur- face of the air-bladder having the ordinary simple capillary system (Perch and Cod). In the Cod-fish, a large artery, a branch of the casliac, and a still larger vein, which empties itself into the mesen- teric, perforate together the fibrous tunic of the swim-bladder. Before they reach the inner surface, they divide into some branches, which then radiate and subdivide upon the mucous membrane : the arterioles frequently anastomose together; and the venules as fre- quently anastomose with each other: both are inextricably inter- woven and form the basis of the so-called ‘air-gland,’ which is essentially a large ‘ bipolar rete mirabile ’ of Muller, or vaso- * XXI. 1841, p. 194. T 2