VASCUI.^Ul SYSTEM OP PISHES. 271 sent off from tlie posterior part of the ‘ circulus aorticus; and in some Sharks hj two trunks from the same part. The next branch is a posterior mesenteric, which varies in size according to the extent of the intestinal canal supplied by the casliac. Between these, in some fishes, the brachial arteries are sent off from the abdominal aorta : these vessels in the large-finned Torpedos and Chimasrse have a partial investment of muscular fibres, like secondary bulbs, to accelerate the circulation through them.* In the Porbeagle Shark (^Lamna cornuhicci) the two caeliac arteries each split into a bundle of small arterioles, which interlace with a similar resolution of the hepatic veins to form a mixed fasciculate ‘ plexus mirabilis’ between the pericardial septum and the liver. The arterial blood is collected again into a trunk on the outer side of each plexus; and is distributed by the ramifications of those trunks in the ordinary way to the gtomach and intestines.j The arterial branches to the spiral valve in the Fox Shark are remarkable for the rich bundles of twigs by which they distribute the blood to that produc- tion. In the Meditei’ranean Tunnies (^Thynnus and Auxis) the branches of the caeliaco-mesenteric artery sent to the stomach, the pancreas and the intestines, severally split up into similar fasciculate plexuses, which are interlaced with corresponding plexuses of the veins from those viscera prior to the formation of the portal trunk. But the most common modification of the visceral vascular system is the sudden division and termination of a branch, usually of the gastric artery, in a small body chiefly composed of the cellular beginnings of the returning veins, forming the vaso-ganghon so constant in all higher Vertebrates, and called the ‘spleen’ 61. n). It is not present in the Lancelot; and the gland-like bodies near the cardia in the Cyclostomes, and near the pylorus in the Lepidosiren, which some have called ‘ spleen,’ are more like the recognised remnants of the vitellicle in osseous fishes, where a true spleen is actually present. The vein of the spleen always contributes to form the ‘ vena portm; ’ but it is important to note that it is not essential to the formation of that vessel. The absence of the spleen in fishes is concomitant with the absence of the pancreas ; and the increased size and complexity of the spleen is associated in some fishes with a corresponding development of the pancreas. Thus there is an accessory spleen in the Sturgeon; and the spleen is divided into numerous distinct lobules in Lamna, Selache (see part of the organ in Jr,g. 64. s), and some other highly organised Plagiostomes. In most osseous fishes the spleen is appended by its vessels, and a meso-splenic fold of Duvernoy, xc. f XXI. 1841, p. 99. pi. 5.