THE SKULL OF OSSEOUS FISHES. 113 ‘ ramus ’ is applied in anthropotomy to each half of the mandible, and each ramus consists of two, three, or more pieces in different fishes. Most commonly it consists of two pieces, one (hiemapophysis proper), articulated to the suspensory pedicle, and edentulous, ana- logous to the maxillary; and the other (hcemal spine) completing the arch, and commonly supporting teeth, like the premaxillary. In the Cod, and some other fishes, a third small piece is superadded, at the angle of the posterior piece. That {ib. 29) which forms the sig- moid concavity adapted to the tympanic trochlea is termed the ‘ ar- ticular piece; ’ it sends upwards a pointed coronoid process, to which the ligament from the maxiUaiy hone, and the masticatory muscles are attached ; one short square plate downwards, to join with the angular {ib. 3o); and a long pointed process forwards, to be sheathed in the deep notch of the anterior piece. This (32) is characterised hy the teeth, which, when present in the lower jaw, are always supported by it; whence its name of the ‘ dentary piece.’ The dentary is always deeply excavated, and receives a cylindrical car- tilage’'^ from the inner side of the hypo-tympanic, and the vessels and nerves of the teeth. The great Sudis {Jig. 38.) and the Poly- pterus have the splint-like plate along the inner surface of the ramus, answering to that which Camper and Cuvier have un- ^ Ijovier {Arapahna gtga$), lortunately called ^operculaire, in the mandible of Reptiles, but to which I have given the name of ‘ spleniaV to prevent the confusion from the synonymy with the true opercular bones of Fishes: and in both Sudis and Lepidosteus there is superadded a small bony piece {ib. 29 a), answering to that which Cuvier calls the ‘ sur-angulaire ’ in Reptiles. These modifications, co- existing with the true opercular bones, demonstrate the fallacy of the idea that those bones are much developed homologues of the posterior pieces of the lower jaw of Reptiles ; an idea wliich could never have been entertained by its propounders, had they appreciated the ge- neral homology of the opercular pieces, as the diverging appendage of the haimal arch of a cranial vertebra. The Diverging Appendage of the tympano-mandibular arch con- sists of the bones which support the gill-cover, a kind of short and broad fin, the movements of which regulate the passage of the currents through the branchial cavity, opening and closing the branchial aperture on each side of the head. The first of these oper- cular bones, which forms the chief medium of the attachment of the * M, Agassi* observes that this cartilage is the “ rcsle de I’ancien arc embryonal, antour duquel Ics pieces osseuscs se sont developpdcs.” (xxii. i. p. 138.) VOL. 11. I