9 CHARACTERS OF VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. . development closely corresponding ivitli that of the pancreas. Lac- teal vessels convey the nutident fluid to the veins, and thus it reaches the heart. The central organ of circulation, always present, and of a compact muscular character, always below or anterior in position to the ali- mentary tube and nervous axis, is situated towards the fore-part of the body, most commonly in a compartment distinct from the abdo- men, where it is suspended in a special bag or pericardium {Jig. 1. /^). The blood is red in all the Vertebrated animals, and the colouring matter is contained in microscopic discoid cells, of an oval or circular form {Jig. 4.). The whole or part of the cii’culating fluid is trans- mitted directly from the heart to the respiratory organ {Jig. 1. Ig'). The respiratory medium, whether air or water, is admitted to the respiratory organ by the mouth. From this organ the arterial blood is sent, sometimes directly, sometimes after a second return to the heart, or in both ways,_ to the rest of the system ; but the breathing organs are never developed, as we saw in many of the Invertebrata, from the returning venous channels. The venous blood in the lower Vertebrata is submitted to the depurating influence of the kidneys; but in the higher Vertebrata these de-azotising glands (7d) are supplied exclusively by arteries. A part of the venous blood in all Vertebrata circulates through the liver, as through a second and subordinate lung, before it finally reaches the heart. The system for perpetuating the species is not complete in any Vertebrated animal; that is, the generative organs are divided be- tween two individuals, there being no natural Hermaphrodite in this sub-kingdom. Every Vertebrate embryo soon takes on its special and determinate sexual character, and ends a perfect male or per- fect female —a fertiliser or a producer. The instinctive sense of dependence upon another, manifested by the impulse to seek out a mate, — which impulse, even in fishes, is some- times so irresistible tliat they throw themselves on shore in the jnir- suit,—this first step in the supercession of the lower and more general law of individual or self preservation, although not first introduced at the Vertebrate stage of the animal series, is never dejiarted from after that stage has been gained. To this sexual relation is next added a self-sacrificing impulse of a liigher kind, viz. tlie parental instinct. As we rise in tlie survey of Vertebrate plienomena, we see the entire devotion of self to offspring in tlie patient incubation of ;the bird, in the unwearied exertions of the Swift or the Hawk to obtain food for their callow brood when hatched; in the bold de- monstration which the Ilcn, at other times so timid, will make to repel tlireatcned attacks against her cowering young.