186 LECTURE VIII. Girgensolin (lxiii, p. 155.) says they may well be compared with the ‘ corpora striata ; ’ but he recognises the important difference, that, whereas these ‘transmission ganglia’ (durchgangsknoten) give passage to the radiating fibres of the cerebral crura in their course to other parts of the cerebrum in Mammals, those fibres terminate in the solid prosencephala of Fishes. The establishment of the lateral ventricles in the prosencephala of the Plagiostomes and Lepidosiren also show them to be something more than ‘ corpora striata.’ It now becomes highly important to note the mode of establish- ment of these cerebral ventricles : they are not formed by the super- addition of a layer or film of neurine overlapping parts answerable to the solid hemispheres in other Fishes, but are either central exca- vations, as you perceive in these elongated prosencephala of the Lepidosiren 54. Iv), or they are deep fissures towards the under part, as in the coalesced hemispheres of the Shark; whence I con- clude that the solid prosencephalon of Osseous Fishes is not a mere representative of a basal ganglion forming the floor of the ventricle of the hemispheres in the higher Vertebrata, where such ganglion is a medium of transmission or source of accession to the cerebral fibres; but that the fish’s prosencephalon is the seat of the terminal expansion of the radiating medullary fibres of the cerebral crura. Dissection of the recent brain shows (as in fig. 51. p) that these fibres, besides being blended with grey matter, as in the corpora striata, are thickly covered with a layer of the same grey and highly vascular neurine of which the hemispheric convolutions in Mammals are chiefly formed; and it is most interesting to perceive on the superficies of the solid prosencephalon in many fishes the fore- shadowing of the convolutions, Avhich are not fully established until the Mammalian type is attained. The prosencephalon of the fish is far, indeed, fi’om being a miniature model, but it may be regarded as representing the potential germ, of the complex cerebral hemispheres of man. The average proportional weight of the brain to the rest of the body in Fishes is as 1 to 3000. A certain size seems to be essential to the performance of its functions, as a recipient of the impressions from the organs of sense ; and it does not, therefore, vary in different species so as to accord precisely with the general bulk of the body. The size of the optic lobes, e. g. has a more constant and direct re- lation to that of the eyes, which soon acquire their full development. We find the entire brain proportionally greater in young than in old fishes : it acquires its full size long befoi'e the termination of the growth of the fish, if this has a fixed period. But as the head must grow with the growth of the fish, provision for occupying the in-