214 LECTURE VIII. placed. Hunter counted about 240 of these plates in a single inch of length of the horizontal membrane. He rightly compares those stronger membranes to the aponeurotic walls of the prisms of the Torpedo, and the intersecting delicate plates, to the partitions of the prisms: a pellucid liquid intervenes between the plates of the Gym- notus ; and, if we admit the analogy of these plates, and of those of the Torpedo, to the plates of the voltaic pile, we perceive that, in the Gymnotus, the batteries are horizontal and the plates vertical, whilst in the Torpedo the batteries are vertical and their plates horizontal. The situation of the organs is also very different in the two fishes; they extend from before the pectoral fins to the anterior part of the head in the one, and from behind the pectoral fins to near the end of the tail in the other. But a more important difference exists in the source of the nervous supply. In the Gymnotus the electric organs are supplied by the ‘ rami ventrales ’ of all the spinal nerves, about 200 pairs, that issue in the course of their extent; some of the filaments ramify upon the horizontal membranes from their cutaneous margins; but the greater part of the nerves come from the deeper-seated branches which descend upon the median aponeurotic partition-wall, and spread upon the septa of the organ from within outwards. Yet the nervus lateralis, which is derived from the same cerebral nerves as those which, in the Torpedo, supply the electric batteries, and which is formed by similar proportions of the trigeminal and vagus, extends the whole length of the electric organs in the Gymnotus without rendering them a filament; it is situated nearer the spine, and is of larger size than usual, but Hunter * “ was not able to trace any nerves going from it to join those of the medulla spinalis, which run to the organ.” The proportional size of the electric organs is much greater in the Gymnotus than in the Torpedo: indeed, the proper body of the Gymnotus is, as it were, a mere appendage tacked on to the fore part of the enormous batteries ; for the digestive and generative viscera, with the respiratory and circulating organs, the brain and organs of sense,—all, in fact, that constitute the proper animal,— are confined to that small segment of the entire body which is anterior to the electrical apparatus. The vent even opens beneath the head, in advance of the pectoral fins. The electric organs of the Malapterurus eleetricus are described as forming on each side the body, between the skin and the lateral muscles, two thin strata, one consisting of minute lozenge-shaped cells, the other of six or more fine longitudinal membranes, with a delicate intervening cellular structure: they thus combine the cha- LXXX.