VASCULAR SYSTKM OR RISUKS. 247 system.’ This system exists as a separate organic vascular apparatus only in the VertebratQ^ubkingdom: it Avas first observed in Man and Mammalia ; was discovered by John Hunter in Birds* * * § and Reptiles"j', and afterwards described by IMi’. Hewson and Di*. Monro in Fishes. The most systematic and detailed descriptions of the absorbent system of the Oviparous animals, published in the last century, are those of Hewson. | The lacteal system in Fishes commences by a reticulate or plexi- form layer of vessels attached to the cellular side of the mucous coat of the stomach and intestines : in the Skate § the network is so coarse that, when inflated, dried, and cut open, it appears like a subdivided cellular receptacle. The chyle is conveyed thence in all fishes by more vasiform lacteals situated immediately beneath the serous covering of the intestines to large reticulate receptacles, one in the mesenteric angle along the junction of the small and large intestines, the other extending along the duodenum, its pancreatic appendages, and the pyloric part of the stomach; and often also surrounding the spleen. The presence of the mesentery in the Myxinoids, and its absence in the Lampreys, involve corresponding differences in their lacteal systems : in the Myxinoids the lacteals are supported and con- veyed by the mesentery to the dorsal region of the abdomen, and empty themselves into a receptacle above the aorta and the cardinal veins, between these and the vertebral chord : in the Lamprey the lacteals pass forwards, and enter the abdominal cavernous sinus be- neath the aorta. The lymphatic system is best demonstrated by injecting the large absorbent trunk which runs upon the inner surface of the ventral parietes of the abdomen, along the median line from the vent for- * “ It is but doing justice to the ingenious Mr. John Hunter to mention hero, that these lymphatics in the necks of fowls were first discovered by him many years ago.” (Hewson, cii. 1768, p. 220.) t Hunter’s account of this discovery, in a manuscript copied by Mr. Clift, is as follows: — “ In the beginning of the winter 1764-5, I got a crocodile, which had been in a show for several years in London before it died. It was, at the time of its death, perhaps the largest ever seen in this country, having grown, to my know- ledge, above three feet in length, and was above five feet long when it died. I sent to Mr. Hewson, and, before I opened it, I read over to him ray former de- scriptions of the dissections of this animal relative to the absorbing system, both of .some of the larger lymphatics and of the lacteals, with a view to see how far these descriptions would agree with the appearances in the animal now before us; and, on comparing them, tliey exactly corresponded. This was the crocodile from which Mr. Hewson took his observations of the colour of the chyle.” Hunter here alludes to the note appended to Mr. Hewson’s paper on the “Lymphatic Sy.stem in Amphibious Animals,” I’hilosopliical Transactions, vol. llx. 1769, p. 199. a: “In a crocodile which I lately saw by favour of Mr. John Hunter, the chyle was white.” i CII. 1768, 1769. § In this and other Plagiostomes the gastric lacteals arc confined chiefly to tlie contracted pyloric canal. u 4