J48 LECTUEE VI. of the bony dermal skeleton except those presented by the Ganoid and Placoid fishes. He must have sunk to the low conception that natui'e had been limited to a certain allowance of the salts of lime in the formation of each animal’s skeleton, who could affirm that in the higher Vertebrata “the internal articulated skeleton takes all the earthy matter for its consolidation” (xxvii. p. 537.), foi-getting that the bulky Glyptodon and its diminutive congeners the Annadillos have their internal skeleton as fully developed and as comj)letely ossified as in any other mammals. The organising energies which perfect and strengthen the osseous internal skeleton do not destroy nor in any degree diminish the tendency to calcareous depositions on the surface, when the habits and sphere of life of the warm-blooded quadruped require a strong defensive covering from that source. The moment that the obseiwations of the naturalist bring to light the mode of life of any of those fishes which are said to i*etain an unusual proportion of the external shell of the Invertebrata, we are in a condition to appreciate the adaptation of that external defensive covering to such mode of life. The Sturgeons, for example, were designed to be the scavengers of the great rivers ; they swim low, grovel along the bottom, feeding, in shoals, on the decomposing ani- mal and vegetable substances which are hurried down with the debris of the continents drained by those rapid currents: thus they are ever busied re-converting the substances, which otherwise would tend to corrupt the ocean, into living organised matter. These fishes are, therefore, duly weighted by a ballast of dense dermal osseous plates, not scattered at random over their surface, but regularly arranged, as the seaman knows how ballast should be, in orderly series along the middle and at the sides of the body. The protection against the water-logged timber and stones hurried along their feeding grounds, which the Sturgeons derive from their scale-armour, renders needless the ossification of the cartilaginous case of the brain or other parts of the endo-skeleton : and the weight of the armour requires that endo-skeleton to be kept as light as may be compatible with its elastic property and other functions. The Sturgeons are further adjusted to their place in the liquid element, and endowed with the power of changing their level and rising Avith their defensive load to tlie surface, by a large expansive air-bladder. These teleological interpretations of the dermal bony plates may give some insight into the habits and conditions of existence of those Ganoid and heavily protected Placoid fishes Avhich so predominated in the earlier periods of animal life in our planet ; Avhereas these Ganoids and Placoids have hitherto been viewed almost exclusively by the light of the analogy of an embryonic “ Age of Fishes,” or explained