303 DEVELOPMENT OF FISHES. fishes is the transposition of the periods of extrication and exclusion: in the Ovipara the generative product or ovum quits the parent before the embryo extricates itself from the egg : in the Ovo-vivipara the embryo escapes from the egg before it quits the parent: the young Blennies tarry three months in utero, from September to January, after extrication from the choidon. The great difference between viviparous fishes and mammals is, that the former rupture the chorion long before they are born, even in the Sharks where there is a kind of pseudo-placental attachment: in the foetal mammal birth and exclusion are commonly coincident. Growth.— There are few fields of Natural History that have beei less cultivated, or would better reward the scientific labourer, than that extensive and varied one relating to the generation of fishes. The mercantile value of the Salmon, and the necessity for basing laws that are to operate in its preservation, upon a knowledge of its natural history, have led to some very interesting observ- ations ; the following are the chief results of those recorded by Mr. John Shaw in the Transactions of the Royal Society of Edin- burgh, for 1840. The embryo fish, developed from the ova spawned on the 10th January, were conspicuous by the two dark eye-specks and the vascular vitelline sac, and presented some appearance of animation in the ovum, on February 26th, that is, forty-eight days after being deposited ; and on 8th April, or ninety days after impregnation of the ova, the young were excluded. The head is large in proportion to the body, which measures l-ths of an inch in length ; the vitelHcle is f ths of an inch in length, and resembles a light red currant; the tail is margined like that of the tadpole, with a continuous fin running from the dorsal above to the anal beneath. The vitelline sac and its contents were absorbed by the 30th May, or in about fifty days, until which time the young fish did not leave the gravel. This quiescent state in their place of concealment, from the period of exclusion to the absorption of the yolk, seems to be common to osseous fishes ; but the time varies in diffei’ent fishes, it is much shorter in the Tench, for example, than in the Salmon. When the young of this fish emerge, the terminal fringe-like fin begins to divide itself into the dorsal, adipose, caudal and anal fins ; and the transverse bars on the side of the body make their appearance. At this period, the young Salmon measures an inch in length, and is very active, and continues in the shallows of its native stream till the following spring, when it has attained the length of from three to four inches, and is called the “ May-parr : ” they now descend into deeper parts of the river, and are believed by Mr. Shaw to remain there over the second winter. In April, the caudal, pectoral, and