172 LECTURE Vlll. and developes and supports ganglionic masses, principally disposed in a linear series parallel with the axis : this part is called the ‘ brain’ or encephalon : the rest of the axis I tei'm the ‘ myelon ’ * * * § ; retaining its columnar or chord-character, and, being lodged in the canal of the spinal column, it is usually defined as the meduUa spinalis, spinal marrow, or spinal chord. In the Lamprey the myelon is flattened, opaline, ductile, and elastic, as in the Lancelet and other Dermopteri: in typical Fishes it is inelastic and opaque, cylindrical or sub-depressed, of nearly uniform diameter, gradually tapering in the caudal region to a point in heterocercal Fishes, but swelling again into a small terminal ganglion I in most homocercal Fishes. The Flunterian preparation of the skate {Eaia Batis, ISTo. 1347.) shows a slight (brachial or pectoral) enlargement of the myelon where the numerous large nerves are sent off to the great pectoral finsj: a feebler brachial enlargement may be noticed in the Sharks. I have not recognised it in osseous Fishes; not even in those with enormous pectorals adapted for flight, e. g. Exoccetus and Dacty- lopterus: in the latter the small ganglionic risings upon the dorsal columns of the cervical region of the myelon receive nerves of sen- sation from the free soft rays of the pectorals, and the homologous ganglions are more marked in other Gurnards (Tingles), which have from three to five and sometimes six pairs, e. g. in Trigla Adriatica. § Similar inyelonal cervical ganglions are present, also, in Poly- nemus. In the heterocercal Sturgeon there is a feeble expansion of the myelon at the beginning of the caudal region, whence it is con- tinued, gradually diminishing to a point along the neural canal in the upper lobe of the tail. In some bony fishes (Trout, Blenny), the caudal ganglion is not quite terminal, and is less marked than in the Cod or Bream, in which it is of a hard texture, but receives the last * Gr. fxveKos, marrow. As an apology for proposing a name, capable of being inflected adjectively, for a most important part of the body which has hitherto received none, I may observe that, so long as the brief definitions, ‘ marrow of the spine,’ ‘ chord of the spine,’ are substituted for a proper name, all propositions re- specting it must continue to be periphrastic, e. g. ‘diseases of the spinal marrow,’ ‘ functions of tl)e spinal chord,’ instead of ‘ myelonal diseases,’ ‘ myelonal functions ; ’ or, if the pathologist speaks of ‘ spinal disease,’ meaning disease of the spinal marrow, he is liable to be misunderstood as referring to disease of the spinal or vertebral column. But, were the Anatomist to speak of the canal in the spinal marrow of Fishes as the ‘ myelonal canal,’ he would at once distinguish it from the canal of the spinal column. The generally accepted term ‘ chorda,’ or ‘chorda dorsalis,’ for the embryonic gelatinous basis of the spine, adds another source of confusion likely to arise from the use of the term ‘ spinal chord,’ applied to the myelon, or albu- ininous contents of the spinal canal. + Liii. p 6.; I.IV. p. 26. (in the Cod). i This structure is accurately figured by Mr. Swan m uv. pi. xi. § Lv. pi. 2. fig. 4. p. 106. ; and liii. p. 6., pi. 2. fig. 24, 25.