132 LECTURE VI. jaw. Tliis process corresponds with the outward and downward prolongation of the transversely developed pre-maxillary in Osseous Fishes. The maxillary hone (ib. 21) is a small and simple oblong plate, articulated to the under part of the base of the outer process of the pre-maxillary, and attached by the whole of its inner and posterior side to the palatine. Only the gradual transmutation of the similarly insignificant ‘ os mystaceum ’ in the Osseous Fishes to its higher form and functions in the Salmonoid and Salamandroid species, could have made the homology of this separate bone appreciable in the Sturgeon. The os palati (ib. 20) articulates by its anterior angle with both maxillary and pre-maxillary; expands posteriorly in one direction towards the median line, along which a slender pointed process is directed forwards; and in the opposite direction outwards and downwards to the inner side of the cartilaginous joint of the lower jaw ; like the pterygoid extension of the same part of the arch in the Lepidosiren. A slender ossicle (ib. 74) extends along the outer side of the cartilaginous joint, from the end of the premaxillary process to the posterior ridge of the palatine bone ; homologous with the angulo-labial cartilage in the Squatina. In the cartilagi- nous interspace between the anterior notch of the palatines and the premaxillary synchondrosis, I have found a small separate ossification in a very large and old Accipenser Sturio. The roof of the mouth is extended posteriorly by three cartilagi- nous plates : one single (ib. 20 a) and extending backwards, from the posterior interspace of the palatines ; this seems to be the homologue of the two median cartilages, called ‘ palatal ’ by Dr. Henle, on the roof of the broader mouth of the Narcine * : the two outer cartilages correspond with those called ‘ pterygoid ’ by the same author in the same Brazilian Torpedo, f The lower jaw (ib. 32), which is joined by a concavity to the trochlear cartilage supported by the pterygoid process of the palatine and the premaxillary, consists principally of a single bony ramus on each side, joined by ligament to its fellow at the symphysis, with a posterior excavation filled by cartilage, in which there is a small detached ossification in the old Accipenser Sturio above adverted to.J The whole of the above apparatus of the jaws is suspended to * Muller’s Myxinoiden, tab. v. fig. 3 and 4. e e. f Ib. d d. :j: The bones and gristles of tlie Sturgeon’s month are well described by J. Muller (xxi.); but iclitbyotomically, i. e. without determination of homologies, and accordingly under special names.