LECTURK XIT. 300 'J’he duct of the air-hladcler (s) is developed from the dorsal aspect of the pyloric end of the stomach; even in those fishes where the communication of the air-duct is afterwards found at the oesophagus; the posterior compartment of the air-bladder is first developed in the Cyprinoids, which accounts for the connection of the air-duct with that part. In the Herring, the primitive place of its connection with the alimentai'y canal is retained. The communication is obliterated in the fishes without the air-duct; and the whole posterior compart- ment disappears with the duct in the Loach. The scales are formed late in all osseous fishes; their integuments remain smooth and lubricous, as in the Dermopteri, some time after the disappearance of the vitellus. The inferior position of the mouth is an embryonic character common to all fishes, and is retained, together with the unossified skeleton and the continuation of the cartilaginous vertebrie into the upper lobe of the caudal fin, in all the Plagiostomes. The singular productions of the rostrum in many of these fishes, like the elon- gation of the jaws in osseous species, are later phenomena of deve- lopment. It is interesting to find the broad, depressed, obtuse embry- onic form of head common to all the known fishes of the old red- sandstone. M. Agassiz thus accounts for the extreme rarity of the ichthyolites of this formation presenting a profile view of the head: it lies in most cases upon the upper or the under surface. All the Plagiostomes have the external as well as the internal di- vision of the vitellicle (Jig. 80.) ; the peduncle of the external one is longer, in some species consider- ably so, than in osseous fishes, and it is beset with villi in Carcharias and Zygana. * The tegumentary covering of the outer yolk (ib. d), is denser and more opaque in Pla- giostomes : the inner yolk (ib. e) consists, of course, only of the ju’ojDer vitelline tunic, which is thin and transparent: it commu- nicates Avith the small intestine {g') i. e., Avith the short tract Avhich intervenes betAveen the pylorus aud the Audvular straight gut (A) : it receives the external yolk {d! e') as this is progressively squeezed into the abdomen by the contraction and interstitial absorption of its (Hess flilirt zii cler Ucbcrzcuguiig, das der Fiscli-Niercn stelicn gebleibcne Primor- dial-nicren andcrer Thicrc sind.” (cxxxvii. 1337, p. 314.) * cx’xiH. tf. iii. Embryo Scyllium.