THE SKULL OP OSSEOUS IHSIIES. 117 consists simply of the cerato-branchial element; but in Anahas supports a pharyngo-branchial {ih. 49). It is often expanded, and usually more or less beset with teeth : it has been termed the inferior pharyngeal bone {ps pharyngien inferieure, Cuvier), as if it were homologically distinct from the gill-bearing arches ; and in the same insulated sense the upper expanded dentigerous portions of these arches are termed by Cuvier the “ os pharyngiens supmdeures : ” they are sometimes blended together into one piece, as in the Coitus. The peculiar cribriform or labyrinthic cavities, lined by vascular membrane, and subservient to the continuance of respiration in certain fishes, which can live long out of water, the Climbing Perch (^Anahas') for example, and other genera of the Order called by Cuvier “ Pharyngiens labyrinthiformes,” are due to a peculiar deve- lopment of the epi-branchial and pharyngo- branchial pieces of the first, second, and some- times the third branchial arches 39. 48). All these giU- and tooth-bearing arches ap- pertain to the splanchno-skeleton, or to that category of bones to which the hard jaw-like pieces supporting the teeth of the stomach of the Lobster belong. The branchial arches are sometimes cartilaginous when the true endo- skeleton is ossified : they are never ossified in the perenni-branchiate Batrachians, and are the first to disappear in the larvae of the caduci-branchiate species ; and both their place and mode of attachment to the skull demonstrate that they have no essential liomological relation to its vertebral structure. All the primitive six pairs of branchial arches are present, but cartilaginous in the Lepi- dosiren; and the last, which answer to the inferior pharyngeal bones in normal Osseous Fishes, supports gills, and not teeth, whilst the second and third arches have no gills in this remarkable fish : they offer a striking contrast in tissue, connections, and development with the strong, bony, persistent hyoidean arch of the true endo-skeleton. Branchial arch, with iaby- rinthic pharyngo-branchials (Anabas). Scapular Arch {Jig- 30. n, i, 50, 5i, 52). The fourth cranial inverted arch is that which is attached to the par-occipital; or to the par-occipital and mastoid; or, as in the Cod, to the par-occipital and petrosal: or, as in the Shad, to the par-occipital and basi-occipital: thus either wholly or in part to the par-apophysis of the occipital vertebra, of which it is essentially the hiemal arch; it is usually termed the ‘ scapular arch.’ In the Eel tribe, where it is very feebly developed, and sometimes devoid of any divei’ging appendage, it is loosely suspended behind the skull; and in 1 3