* “ Des (/ranch musck.s latcruu.r du tronc. II n’y eii a essentiellement qu’un dc 164 LECTURE VII. ments or flakes are then easily separated, as we find in carving a cod or salmon at table. The vegetative similarity of the myocommata of the trunk has led to their being described, by an abuse of synthesis, as parts of one individual ‘ great side-muscle ’ *, extending from the occiput and scapular arch to the bases of the caudal fin-rays. The modifications of the cranial vertebrm impress corresponding changes on their muscular segments, and the essential individuality of these segments has, on the other hand, been lost sight of, through the opposite excess of analytic separation : special names are, however, conveniently applied to their constituent, and in fact often separated and independently acting, fasciculi. The fibres of each myocomma of the trunk run sti’aight and nearly horizontally from one septum to the next; but they are peculiarly grouped, so as usually to form semi-conical masses, of which the upper (a), and lower (6), have their apices turned backwards; whilst a middle cone (c), formed by the contiguous parts of the preceding, has its apex directed forwards ; this fits into the interspace between the antecedent upper and lower cones, the apices of which recipro- cally enter the depressions in the succeeding segment, and thus all the segments are firmly locked together, their general direction being from without obliquely imvards and backwards, and their peri- pheral borders describing the zig-zag course represented in Jig. 44, in which one myocomma is represented partly detached, and others quite removed from the side of the abdomen. Thus, guided by the fundamental segmental type of the vertebrate structure, we come to recognise the ‘ grand muscle lateral ’ of Cuvier, as a group of essentially distinct vertical masses or segments. A sviperficial view of these segments, or an artificial analysis, has led to their being regarded as forming a series of horizontal muscles extending length- wise from the head to the tail: the upper portions (a) of the myo- commata being grouped together, and described as a dorsal longi- tudinal muscle with tendinous intersections directed downwards and backwards; the lower portions(&) as aventi’al longitudinal muscle, with tendinous intersections directed downwards and forwards, whilst the anargins of the middle portions of the myocommata (c) being curved, and usually bisected by the lateral mucous line, have been taken as indications of two intermediate longitudinal muscles. In the Sharks, indeed, instead of a curve the margins of the middle portions of the myocommata form an angle with the apex turned forwards ; and in the Rays the dorsal segments of the myocommata liave actually cliaque c6t(j.” (xxjn. i. p. 287.')