260 LECTURE X. line of the ventral surface: between the two outlets of these lateral longitudinal canals, but nearer the left one, is a third larger open- (0> which communicates by a short duct with the end of the long oesophagus (1) and admits the water, which passes from that tube by the lateral orifices {/) leading into tlie branchial sacs. This is the first step in development beyond that simpler condition which prevails in the Lancelet, where the whole parietes of a much dilated oesophagus {Jig. 46. rr) are organised for respiration ; and besides the pharyngeal opening (ph), the sae communicates by a short and wide ‘ ductus oesophago-cutaneus ’ (ib. od), with the external surface, and also with the peritoneal cavity. The common respiratory surface of the oesophagus is ciliated in the Lancelet. The sacs developed from the oesophagus, and specially set apart for respir- ation in the Myxinoids, have a highly vascular, but not a ciliated mucous surface: this is disposed in radiated folds, and is further in- creased by secondary plicm. The seven branchial sacs on each side of the oesophagus have short external ducts (Jig. 66. k), which open by as many distinct orifices in the skin, in a species of Bdellostoma hence called heptatrema (prep. 1018.): the internal branchial ducts communicate by as many openings (ib.y) with the oesophagus. In the Lampreys there are, also, seven stigmata on each side; but another stage in the separation of the respiratory from the digestive tract is here seen, for each internal duct (Jig. 67. f) communicates with a median canal, beneath and distinct from the oesophagus, ter- minating in a blind end behind, and communicating anteriorly with the fauces by an opening guarded by a double membranous valve. In all higher fishes the inlets to the branchial interspaces are situated on each side the fauces, and are equal in number with those interspaces. The outlets are, with the exception of the Plagiostomes, single on each side: they vary much in size; are relatively largest in the Herring and Mackerel families, smallest in the Eels and Lo- phioid fishes; in some of the small Frog fishes (Antennarius), the circular branchial pore is produced into a short tube above each pec- toral fin. The power of existing long out of water depends chiefly on these mechanical modifications for detaining a quantity of that element in the branchial sacs; for fishes perish when taken out of water, chiefly by the cohesion and desiccation of their fine vascular branchial processes, through which the blood is thereby prevented from passing. * If sufficient water can be retained to keep the gill- plates floating, the oxygen which is consumed by the capillary bran- chial circulation is supplied to the water retained in the branchial sac directly from the air. In some of the Eel tribe the small branchial outlets are closely approximated below, as in Sphagebranchus; and * cvi. p. 12 4.