278 LECTURE XI. which suffices for all the evolutions they are called upon to per- form. With regard to the accessory offices of the air-bladder in relation to the sense of hearing, the chief of these remarkable modifi- cations by which it is brought into communication with the acoustic labyrinth have been already described in a former Lecture (p. 210.). In a few genera {Trigla, Pogonias) the air-bladder and its duct are subservient to the production of sounds. Under all its diversities of structure and function the homology of the swim-bladder with the lungs is clearly traceable ; and finally, in those orders of fishes which lead more directly to the Eeptilia, as, for example, the salamandroid Ganoidei and Protopteri, those further modifications are superinduced upon the air-bladder, by which it becomes also analogous in function to the lungs of the air-breatliing Amphibia. The species of Lepidosiren, the anatomy of which is described in the Linnman Transactions* and in these Lectures, inhabits a paid of the river Gambia, which in the rainy season overflows extensive tracts, that are again left dry in the dry season. The Lepidosirens, which do not follow the retreating waters, escape from the scorching rays of the African sun by burrowing in the mud, which is soon baked hard above them ; but they maintain a communication with the air by a small aperture, and coiling themselves up in their cool chamber, clothe themselves by a layer of thick mucous secretion, and await, in a torpid state, the return of the rains and the overflowing of the mud-banks. The advent of their proper element wakes them into activity: they then emerge from the softened mud, swim briskly about, feed voraciously, and propagate. The peculiar modifications of the gills and air-bladder of the Lepi- dosiren are precisely those which adapt them to the peculiar con- ditions of their existence. Li the inactive state into which they are thrown by their false position as terrestrial animals, the circulation, which would have been liable to be stopped had all the branchial arteries developed gills, as in normal fishes, is carried on through the two persistent primitive vascular channels {Jig. 71. 2 and 3). Whatever amount of respiration was requisite to maintain life during the dry months is effected in the pulmonary air-bladders; its short and wide duct or trachea, the oesophageal orifice of which is kept open by a laryngeal cartilage, introduces the air directly into the bladders: the blood transmitted through the branchial arches to the pulmonary arteries (ib. V) is distributed by their ramifications over the cellular surface of the air-bladders, and is returned arterialised * xxxin.