24 LECTURE II. The skeleton is not entirely external or dermal in the Invertebrata. Independently of the true cartilaginous endo-skeleton of the Cepha- lopods, and of the entapophyses, sometimes also cartilaginous, of the annular segments of the exo-skeleton of Insects and Crustacea, there are parts, as the calcified framework supporting the gastric teeth, and giving attachment to the muscles which work them, in the lobster, and the calcareous gastric plates of the Bulla, which relate more particularly to the functions of the internal organs, or contained viscera; and we find a corresponding group of parts of the general skeleton in most Vertebrate animals. The cartilages or bones of the larynx, trachea, and bronchia of the air-breathing Vertebrates, the bones and cartilages supporting the branchise in fishes and batra- chians, the bones in the hearts of certain birds and mammals, are examples of the visceral series of hard parts, or the “ splanchno skeleton,” as it has been termed by Carus ; and very nearly and naturally connected with this primary division of hard and dry parts are those bones and gristles which form capsules, or support the appendages of the special organs of the senses; as, for example, the sclerotic osseous cups or plates of the eye, the petrous capsule of the labyrinth, the ossicles and cartilages of the tympanum and external ear, the turbinate bones and gristles of the nose. But some of these “ sense capsules ” are connected and intercalated with the true bones of the endo-skeleton, and subservient to similar functions, besides their own special uses, so that they are generally described as ordi- nary bones of the skull. As in all arrangements of natural objects, where nature is followed in selecting their characters, so in classi- fying the parts of the general skeleton of the Vertebrata, the primary groups blend into one another at their extremes, and make it difficult to draw a well-defined boundary line between them. Thus the hyoid and branchial arches closely resemble each other in fishes. Bones of the dermo-skeleton combine with those of the endo-skeleton to form the opercular and the single median fins. But we must not on that account abandon the advantage of arrangement and classi- fication in acquiring an intelligible and tenable knowledge of a complex system of oi'gans, when typical characters clearly indicate the general primary groups. Clearly appreciating the existence of such characters in the very numerous and diversified parts of thd general skeleton of the Vertebrate animals, I, therefore, adopt the primary division of those parts into endo-skeleton, exo-skeleton, and splanchno-skeleton. The endo-skeleton may present itself to our observation under three histological conditions, the fibrous, the cartilaginous, and the