VASCULAR SYSTEM OF FISHES. 265 of branchial development, taken chiefly from the observations of Eathke*, must be premised. Five branchial arches and five branchial arteries, or vascular hoops, are developed on each side in the embryo of all fishes above the Dermopteri, as a general rule.f At first the trunk of the bran- chial arteries simply bifurcates, the divisions passing round the pha- rynx and reuniting on its dorsal surface, to form the aorta. Behind this primary circle, which corresponds with the fold developing the hyoid and mandibular arches, four additional arterial hoops are sent off, which traverse, without further ramifications, the convex side of the four anterior simple branchial arches, and reunite above in the aortic trunk {^jig. 79, 11, If a sixth ai’terial arch is develoiied, cor- responding Avith the fifth branchial arch, as its presence in the Lepido- siren would indicate, it has not been observed, and must soon disappear in most osseous fishes. In these the gills make their appearance as leafiets budding out from the convexity of the four anterior branchial arches, each leafiet supporting a corresponding loop of the branchial ar- tery ; and, as the bifurcation and extension of the primary leaflets and the pullulation of secondary laminae and loops proceed, the vascular arch begins to separate itself lengthwise into two channels, traversed by opposite currents, and thereby establishing an arterial and a venous trunk in relation to the loops and their vascular developments on the branchial processes. In osseous fishes the primary arterial arch, corresponding with the anterior or hyoid arch, developes either a simple (uniserial) gill, or a plexiform, plumose, rudiment of a gill, or both, or neither. In the Lepidosteus the anterior vascular arch retains its primitive connection with the extremity of the branchi- arterial trunk, and developes on each side a small uniserial pectinated gill 70.1) from the membrane clothing the inner surface of the cerato-hyoid and pre-oper- cular bones : the vein or efferent vessel (e) of this gill goes to a smaller pecti- nated organ (il>. r), consisting likewise of one series of vascular filaments, which agrees with the ‘ pseudo-branchia’ of other fishes in being supplied with arterial blood. In the Sturgeon, the Lepidosiren, and the Plagiostomes the representative of the primary vascular arch has become, by partial bifurcation of • CIX. CX. CXI. t The six-gilled Shark (Ilexnnchus) and the sevcn-gillcd Shark (Ileplavchus) are among the few exceptions. Branchia; and pseudo-branchia : Lepidosteus, Muller.