37 THE SKELETON. individuality in the ordinary mammalian and human skull. In many Mammalia we find the pterygoid processes of anthropotomy per- manently distinct bones ; even in Birds, where the progress of ossific confluence is so general and rapid, the pterygoids and tympanies, which are subordinate processes in Man, are always independent bones. In many Mammalia the styloid, the auditory, the petrous, and the mastoid processes remain distinct from the squamous or main part of the temporal, throughout life; and some of these claim the more to be regarded as distinct bones, since they obviously belong to diflPerent natural groups of bones in the skeleton ; as the styloid process, for example, to the series of bones forming the hyoidean arch. The artificial character of that view of the os sacrum, in which this obviously more or less confluent congeries of modified vertebrae is counted as a single component bone of the skeleton, is sufficiently obvious. The os innominatum is represented throughout life in most reptiles by three distinct bones, answering to the iliac, ischial, and pubic portions in anthropotomy. The sternum in most quadrupeds consists of one more bone than the number of pairs of ribs which join it; thus it includes as many as thirteen distinct bones in the Bradypus didactylus. The arbitrary character of the above cited definition of a bone, and the essentially complex nature of many of the single bones and independency of the processes of bone in anthropotomy, are taiight by anatomy, properly so called, which reveals the true natural groups of bones, and the modifications of these which peculiarly characterise the human subject. It will occur to those who have studied human osteogeny, that the parts of the single bones of anthropotomy which have been adduced as continuing permanently distinct in lower animals, are originally distinct in the human foetus : the occipital bone, for example, is ossified from four separate centres ; tlie pterygoid pro- cesses have distinct centres of ossification; the styloid, and the mastoid processes, and the tympanic ring, are separate parts in tlie foetus. The constituent vertebra} of the sacrum remain longer dis- tinct ; and the ilium, ischium, and pubes are still later in anchy- losing together, to form the ‘ nameless bone.’ These and the like correspondencies between the points of ossifica- tion of the human foetal skeleton, and the separate bones of the adult skeletons of inferior animals, are pregnant witli interest, and rank 'among the most striking illustrations of unity of plan in the verte- brate oi’ganisation. Cuvier, commenting on the arl)itrary character of some of the