70 LECTUllE IV. logons but stronger weapon of the Siluroids is usually beset with den- ticles of the same hard substance, sometimes anchylosed to the spine, sometimes movably articulated with it. M. Agassiz has found that the fixed denticles have the same osseous texture, characterised by ra- diated corpuscles in concentric layers, as the spine itself; whilst the movable denticles present a simpler structure, being permeated by calcigerous tubes, radiating from a central vascular pulp cavity, like teeth ; but the comparative anatomist who has extended his obser- vations beyond the class of Fishes, will pause before he admits the sweeping conclusion which the celebrated ichthyologist draws from his interesting microscopical observations.* The distinction between the internal or splanchnic and external skeletons does not rest upon the microscopic character of their tissues ; if it did, and if every calcified plate or spine that presented the cha- racteristic radiated cells of bone, were to be classed with the pieces of the internal skeleton, we must cease to regard the scales of the Cro- codile, and the tesselated carapace of the Armadillo, as parts of the external or dermal skeleton. LECTURE IV. THE SKULL OF FISHES. Passing from the trunk to the head, we find in the Lancelot {Bran- cliiostoma, xxx.), at the lowest step of the Vertebrate series, that the cranium is not indicated by difference of size or structure of the ru- dimental vertebral column, but consists of that gradually contracting anterior termination of the neural canal, which retains its primitive fibro-membranous wall, (Jig. 46. w), without any superaddition, of parts, and is supported by the tapering end of the gelatinous ‘ chorda dorsalis’ (ib. ch). This part, in the Lancelet, even extends farther forwards than the cranial end of the neural canal, indicating the non- development of the prosencephalon and corresponding part of the cranial cavity. In fact, thei'e is no ganglionic cerebral expansion whatever in this vermiform fish: the epencephalon or medulla oblon- gata is indicated by the origin of the trigeminal nerve (ib. oh\ in advance of which the mesencejfiialic segment sends off the short optic nerve to the dark ocellus (op), and there terminates, somewhat obtusely, beneath what Dr. Kolliker (xxxii. p. 32.) has described as a ciliated olfactory capsule (ib. ol). The cranium of the Lancelet, * Les genres Hypostoma ct Callichthys presentent cctte singuliere structure, et prouvent par la meme que les differences qu’on a voulu etablir, entre un squclctte paucier on cxterrie, ct un squclctte interieur ou intestinal, sont dcnuees do tout fondcment.”—roissons Fossilcs, tom. iii. p. 213.