DIGESTIVE SYSTEM OP PISHES. H VOE. II. 2-U of tlio uterus or urinary bladder ; the Lepidosiren lias the peculiarly ichtliyic arrangement of the anal, genital, and urinal outlets.* In the Dermopteri the intestinal canal is pretty closely attached to the hack of the abdomen, though the primitively continuous mesen- teric fold becomes reduced in the Lampreys to filamentary jirocesses accompanying the mesenteric vessels. Rathke has observed a similar metamorphosis of the mesentery in the Syngnathi and Cyprinidae into detached membranous bands. The mesentery is entire in the Lepidosiren, the Plagiostomes, and many other fishes : it is usually single and continuous from the stomach to the end of the intestine : there are two parallel mesogastries in the Eel, and a kind of omental accumulation of adipose matter is sometimes found along the ventral surface of the intestines: a second mesentery is continued from this part of the intestine to the ventral parietes of the abdomen in the Murmna. The position of the cloacal outlet varies much in fishes : in some of the j ugular species it follows the ventral fins to the region of the throat; and, in the apodal Gymnotus, it is placed so far forwards as to remind us of the position of the excretory outlet in the Cephalopods. It is beneath the pectorals in the Amblyopsis spelceus: but the more normal posterior position of the vent obtains in most abdominal and all car- tilaginous fishes. Petrified fmces or ‘ coprolites ’ give some insight into the structure of the intestinal canal in extinct species of fishes: some that have been found in the skeleton of the abdomen of the great Macropoma of the Kentish Chalk, and detached coprolites associated with the scales and bones of the more ancient Megalichthys, indicate by their exterior spiral grooves that these ancient Ganoids, like their modern representative, the Polypterus, possessed the spiral valve. The liver makes its first appearance in the lowest vertebrated, as in the lowest articulated species, under the form of a simple cmcal production from the common alimentary canal: commencing in the Lancelet {fig. 46. hd), a little beyond the orifice py, the hepatic C3BCum {1) extends forwards by the side of the ciliated respiratory sac, which appears to be the homologue of the long oesophagus with the attached marsipo-branchial organs of the Lampreys, but which some may view as representing the stomach of higher fishes. As the true digestive function, however, cannot be supposed to begin until the food has entered the canal ii, the place of communication of the rudimental liver corresponds in the Lancelet with that in the * XXXIII, pi. 25. fig. 'I, HI, 11, o, 1. The Branchiostoirm ofTers no exception to tliis rule ; the opening, by which the ova aiul semen are expelled, is a common peritoneal on tlet.