145 DERMAL BONES OF FISHES. fins, and both are situated near the end of the tail, which runs into the upper lobe of an unsyinmetrical caudal fin. Now in the embryos of existing Osseous Fishes these vertical fins are developed from a single continuous fold of integument, which is extended round the tail from the dorsal to the ventral surface ; a condition which we shall see in the tadpoles of Batrachia, and which is persistent in the Eel and Lepidosiren. The growth of this fold is progressive at certain parts and checked at others; and where development is active the supporting dermal rays make their appearance, and the transform- ation into dorsal, anal, and caudal fins is thus effected. At first the caudal fin is unequally lohed and the terminal vertebr£e extend into tlie upper and longer lobe; the dorsals and anals are also, at first, closely approximated to each other and to the caudal fin. M. Agassiz has shown that all these embryonic characters were retained in many of the extinct fishes of the Old Red Sandstone; and the de- velopment of the caudal fin did not extend in any fish beyond the heterocercal stage until the preparation of the earth’s surface* had advanced to that stage which is called Jurassic or oolitic in geology, (xxn. fasc. Sur le Systems Devonien.) Teleology of the Skeleton of Fishes. — Thus far the osteology of Fishes has been considered chiefly from a homological point of view, and I have aimed at relieving the dryness of descriptive de- tail, and at connecting the multifarious particulars of this difiicult part of Comparative Anatomy in natural order, so as to be easily retained in the memory, by referring to the relations which the skeletons of Fishes bear to the general plan of Vertebrate organisa- tion, and by indicating their analogies to transitory states of the embryo skeleton in higher animals, and to those answerable conditions of the mature skeleton which, in longer lapse of time, have successively prevailed and passed away in the generations of species that have left their remains in the superimposed strata of the earth’s crust. To determine the parts of the Vertebrate skeleton which are mos constant; to trace their general, serial, and special homologies, under all the various modifications by which they are adapted to the several modes and spheres and grades of existence of the different species, should be the great aim of osteological science; as being that Avhich will reduce its facts to the most natural order, and their ex- position to the simplest expressions. It is impossible, in pursuing the requisite comparisons upwards through the higher oi'ganised classes, not to recognise the close and interesting analogies between the mature states and forms of icbthyic organs, and the embryonic condi- * “ The sea is Ills, anil lie made it, niul Ilis hanils prepared the dry land.” — Ps. xcv. VOL. II. L