THE SKELETON. 31 Ephipp2is, there are no radiated cells ; the dense tissue is traversed by parallel undulating plasmatic tubes, which liere and there present slight dilatations, divide, and give oflf minuter tubes which anastomose in their interspaces. The medullary canals, from which the tube derive their plasma, are few and large. Almost endless are the minor modifications of the structure of the osseous tissue of the Vertebrate animals, chiefly produced by varieties in size, course, and number of the vascular canals and the radiated cells and tubes : both vascular canals and radiated cells may be ab- sent in the portion of bone examined ; but the plasmatic tubes are always present. In the dermal bone-plates of the sturgeon, they become, in the dense exterior layer, as minute as in the so-called enamel of the shark’s teeth.* The growth of bone presents some modifications in the different classes of Vertebrate animals. In Fishes the bones continue to increase in dimension almost throughout life : this is best seen in the cranium, where the periphery of the bones, both of those which overlap by squamous sutures, and those which interlock by broad dentated surfaces, is cartilaginous, and, in the thin bones, sub-transparent. Here the development, serial arrangement and metamorphoses of the cartilaginous cells, in other words, the growth of temporary cartilage, are always to be seen in progress. The long bones of most Keptiles retain a layer of ossifying cartilage beneath the terminal articulating cartilage, and growth continues at their extremities throughout life. Few of the long bones of Birds have separate terminal pieces or epiphyses : the distal epiphysis of the tibia is an exception to tliis rule; but the distinct single piece which forms the upper end of the ankle-bone in the young bird represents the tarsal segment, and rests, not on a single diaphysis, but on the still separate proximal ends of the three metatarsals. In tail-less Batrachians and in most of the Mammalian class, the ends of the long cylindrical bones, which support the articular cartilages, are distinct in the growing bone from the shaft, and are termed “ epiphyses,” the shaft being the “ diaphysis the seat of the active growth of the bone is in a carti- laginous crust at the ends of the diaphysis. When the epiphyses finally coalesce with the diaphysis, growth in the direction of the bone’s axis is at an end: but in tlie Mammalian bones, as in those of Birds and Reptiles, there is a slower growth going on over the entire peripliery of the bone, which is covered by the periosteum: the t * Tlie work of Bibra (iv.) contains good observations and illustrations of tbe comparative microscopic anatomy of the osseous tissue in the different classes of Vertebrata.