175' NERVOUS SYSTEM OE FISHES. the nodulus slightly swells above, and obliterates the ‘ calamus scriptorius.’ In the Lucioperca the vagal lobes are not very dis- tinct, but they mark the commencement, and form the broadest part, of the very long medulla oblongata, the restifoi’m tracts diminishing in size as they advance. In no other Vertebrata save fishes are the vagal lobes and the nodulus present. The posterior pyramids, which are the encephalic continuation of the posterior myelonal columns, diverging as they are pushed aside by the deeper-seated tracts that form the floor of the fourth ventidcle, and combining with the lateral columns to form the corpus resti- forme and the basis of the vagal lobes, quit those columns to converge, ascend, and unite together above the anterior opening of the fourth ventricle : they there form either a simple bridge or com- missure (Jig- 54. c), or are developed upwards and backwards into a ganglionic mass, over-arching the ventricle; this mass is the ‘ cere- bellum ’ (Jigs. 47—53. c). It is formed chiefly by the post-pyramidal columns, but doubtless derives some share of the proper lateral or restiform fibres, as the result of the previous confluence of these with the post-pyramids. The cerebellum retains its earliest embryonic form of a simple commissural bridge or fold in the parasitic suctorial Cyclostomes, in the heavily laden ganoid Polypterus *, and in the almost fin- less Lepidosiren (fig. 54. c) ; it attains its highest development, in the present class, in the Sharks, where it not only covers the fourth ventricle, but advances over the optic lobes, and in the Saw- fish extends beyond them to rest upon the cerebrum: its surface is further extended in these active predacGous fishes by numerous trans- verse folds (fig. 55. c). In most osseous fishes the cerebellum is a smooth convex body; hemispheroid (pi. 50. c), or transversely subelliptic (Eel), or longitudinally subelliptic (Lepi- dosteus, fig. 49. c), or an oblong body (Diodon, fig. 47. c), or it is depressed and tongue-shaped (Cod), or oval, or pyra- midal (Perch): it is very rarely found extending forwards, as in Echineis and Amblyopsis sjoelmusX (fio- 50- c),over any part of the optic lobes; but often back- wards over the whole fourth ventricle, as in the Cod, the Diodon ; or over the major part of the ventricle, as in the Herring, the Eel; but sometimes covering only a small portion, as in the Lurnp-fish, the Lepidosteus, * XXV. p. 24. pi. ii. figs 5. 7. + xxxni. p. 3.S9. pi. 27. } .See Dr. Wym.'in’s excellent description of this fish, in i.xxxvi. Lepidosteus; pat. size. Amblyopsis; magnilicd.