47 THE VERTEBIiJE IN FISHES. cartilaginous fishes of Cuvier, except the Sturgeons and Chimera3 {Sturioniens). It is as necessary, however, for the expression of general anatomical propositions, to separate the Dermopteri from the Placoidei of Agassiz as from the Chondropterygii of Cuvier; and it is with this restriction that the Placoids will be referred to in these Lectures, as answering namely to the Plagiostomes of Cuvier. The Ganoid fishes are defended by plates or scales covered with a thick coat of enamel; some of considerable dimensions and irregular form, as in the Sturgeon ; more commonly angular and imbricated, as in the Bony Pike {Lepidosteus). Most of the species and genera of this order have become extinct. The recent species included in it by Agassiz differ materially in their anatomical characters. The Ctenoid fishes have scales formed of laminae of horn, or of un- enamelled bone, with the posterior margin pectinated, like a comb; e. g., the Perch, and most of the Acanthopterygii of Cuvier. The Cycloid fishes have their scales composed of laminae of horn or unenamelled bone, of a rounded form, with smooth and simple margins. The Carp, the Salmon, the Herring, and many other Ma- lacopterygii of Cuvier, are examples of this order. Linnaeus divided the bony fishes into the orders Jugulates, Tho- racici, Abdominales, and Apodes, according to the position or the absence of the ventral fins. Cuvier divided the bony fishes, ac- cording to the structure of the fins, into Acanthopterygii and Malacopterygii. Not many general anatomical propositions, how- ever, can be expressed with regard to these orders. A more natu- ral arrangement has been founded upon a consideration of both external and internal anatomical characters by Prof. J. Muller (xxv.), which, with some modifications, I here adopt; arranging the class of Fishes, as follows, in the ascending series : — Classis PISCES. Ordo I. Dermopteri. Endo-skeleton unossified; exo-skeleton and vertical fins muco- dermoid; vermiform, or abrachial and apodal; no pancreas ; no air- bladder. Suborder I. Pjiaryngobhanciiii, seu Cirrhostomi. Gills free, pharyngeal, inoperculate ; no heart. t Fam. Amphioxida;. Examjile *, Lancelet. * These are cited under their common English names, where such exists.