102 LECTURE V. functions are less specialised, less confined to the particular organ ultimately destined for their performance in the lower than in the higher classes, we find in Fishes several hones taking part with the special acoustic capsule in the lodgment of the labyrinth ; and it is only in the higher Vertebrata that the capsule, under the name of the ‘ petrous bone,’ entirely and exclusively envelopes the labyrinth. Its ossification commences later than that of the cranial neurapo- physes, in the series of Osseous Fishes: there are species (e. g. Pike) in which, after the ex-occipitals, ali-sphenoids, and orbito-sjihenoids have received their destined amount of ossification, the petrosal still remains in the cartilaginous state : it is very small, yet never- theless exists in the Carp (/%r, 35. 16) and Bream, where Cuvier and Bojanus* describe it as a dismemberment of the mastoid: in the Perch, however, where the petrosal is a little better developed than in the Carp, Cuvier recognises its true homology : it is somewhat larger in the fiat-fish (e. g. Holibut), and in the Cod tribe attains an equal size with the ali-sphenoid, which it resembles in form, except that the notched margin is posterior {Jig~ 30. IG). Here it forms the posterior lateral wall of the cranium; articulates below with the basi-occipital and basi-sphenoid, above with the mastoid and par- occipital, behind with the ex-occipital, and before with the ali- sphenoid: it supports the cochlear division of the labyrinth con- taining the otolites. The cavities (otocranes) lodging the petrosals and organs of hearing are completely separated from each other, and are formed, on each side, by the ex-occipital, par-occipital, ali- sphenoid, mastoid, and post-frontal: they are sometimes closed ex- ternally, but open widely into the cranial cavity. Tlie optic capsule, or sclerotic, {fig. 30. 17) like the acoustic cap- sule, is cartilaginous in all Chondropterygians, and also in the semi- osseous fishes, as tlie Lcpidosiren, the Lopliius, the Lophobranchs and riectognatlies. In most osseous fishes it is bony, and commonly xxxvj. j>. 50‘1. till). 7, Tigs, 1. itiiU 5. IC.