200 LECTURE Vlll. aorta, along the back of the abdomen, into the haemal canal; com- municate, in their course, with the ventral branches of each of the spinal nerves ; supply the kidneys, the generative glands, and the urinary bladder, where this exists ; and often, finally, blend together into a common trunk beneath the tail. Ganglions are sometimes found at the junction of the sympathetic with the fifth, as well as at that with the glosso-pharyngeal and with the vagus, before the great splanchnic is formed : small ganglions are more rarely discernible at the junction of the sympathetic with the spinal nerves. The splanchnic ganglion of the Skate is a large fusiform body, of an ash-red colour ; the succeeding ganglia on the trunks of the sym- pathetic are larger and more constant than in Osseous Fishes ; but the intervening chords are semi-transparent.* , Special Organs of Senses. The essential character of the Organ of Smell in fishes is, that the pituitary membrane lines the concave wall of a sac with one or more apertures upon the external surface, and that, in the few exceptions in which it is extended into a canal communicating with the mouth or fauces, such naso-palatine canal is never traversed by the respira- tory medium in its course to the respiratory organs. The extremities of the olfactory nerves {fig. 54, 55. i) expand upon the pituitary membrane, which is highly vascular, and is covered by ciliated epithelium: its extensive surface is packed into the small compass of the olfactory capsule by numerous folds. The capsule is formed by a fibrous membrane, which is sometimes supported by a cartilaginous, and more frequently by an osseous, basis, called the ‘ turbinal bone’ {fig. 30. 19). In the Dermopteri the olfactory organ is single: Dr. Kolliker ■[■ regards as such a small, blind, tegumentary depression {fig. 46. ol), beset with vibratile cilia, and connected with the anterior end of the quasi-brain of the Branchiostoma. The more obvious and satis- factorily determined olfactory organ of the Ammocete is in the median line, opening above the mouth in front of the brain-sac {fi.g. 25. 19), whence a narrow canal is produced backwards from the bottom of the sac to the base of the skull. In the Myxine the pa- rietes of the olfactory canal are similarly situated, lined by a longi- tudinally-plicated pituitary membrane, and are strengthened by cartilaginous rings, like a trachea. The naso-palatine tube opens backwards upon the roof of the mouth; and this opening is provided t xixn. p. 32. pi. ii. fig. 5 A : it should be looked for over the left eye-speck.