156 LECTURE VI. son with the stages of development in a land animal — than the pectoral fins; and their small proportional size reminds the homo- logist of the later appearance of the hind limbs, in the development of the land Vertebrate. But the hind limbs more immediately relate to the su]3port and progression of an animal on dry land than the fore limbs : the legs are the sole terrestrial locomotive organs in Birds, whose fore-limbs are exclusively modified, as wings, for motion in another element. The legs are the sole organ of support and pro- gression in Man, whose pectoral members or arms are liberated from that office, and made entirely subservient to the varied purposes to which an inventive faculty and an intelligent will would apply them. To what purpose, then, encumber a creature, always floating in a medium of nearly the same specific gravity as itself, with hind limbs ? They could be of no use : nay, to creatures that can only attain their prey, or escape their enemy, by vigorous alternate strokes of the hind part of the trunk, the attachment there of long flexible limbs would be a grievous hindrance, a very monstrosity. So, therefore, we find the All-wise Creator has restricted the development and connections of the hind limbs of Fishes to the dimensions and to the form which, whilst suited to the limited functions they are capable of in this class, would prevent their interfering with the action of more important parts of the locomotive machinery. In most fishes the ventral fins merely combine with the pectoral fins in raising, and in preventing as outriggers, the rolling of the body; but some very interesting modifications of the ventral fins, in relation to particular habits of certain species, may be noticed. In the Blennies, the Forked Hake (Ph^cis), the Forked Beard (^Rani- ceps), and some other fishes, the ventral fins are reduced to filamentary feelers. In the Lump-suckers (^Cyclopterus), the ventrals unite to- gether, and combine with part of the pectorals to form a sucking disc or organ of adhesion, below the head, just as the opercular and branchiostegal fins are united together to form the gill-cover. In the long-bodied and small-headed abdominal fishes, the ventrals are situated near the anus, where they best subserve the office of ac- cessory balancers ; in the large-headed thoracic and jugular fishes, the loose suspension of these fins, and the absence of any connection with a sacral part of the vertebral column, permits their transference forwards, to aid the pectoral fins in raising the head. The following short account of some experiments upon fish, made for the purpose of ascertaining the use of their fins, I give in the words of their gifted describer, Paley, to whom Comparative Physio- logy owes many beautiful accessions to its teleological applications. “ In most fish, beside the great fin — the tail, we find two pairs of