110 LECTURE V. into close ai’ticulation with the palatines in the Plectognathes, and the consolidation of the whole series into its normal unity is effected in the Lepidosiren, The palatines form the true bases of the inverted arch at their points of attachment to the prefrontals; the intermaxil- laries constitute the true apex, at their mutual junction or symphysis ; the approximation of which to the anterior end of the axis of the skull is rendered possible in fishes, by the absence of any air-passage or nasal canal; the pterygoids are the diverging appendages of the arch * ; but are attached posteriorly to strengthen the pedicle sup- porting the lower jaw, and combine its movements with those of the upper jaw; just as the bony appendages of one costal arch in Birds associate its movements with those of the next. Tympano-mandibular Arch (yjig. 30. h, in, 25—32). This presents its true inverted or hcemal character; its apex or key-stone formed by the symphysial junction of the lower jaw hang- ing downwards freely, below the vertebral axis of the skull. The piers, or points of suspension of the arch, are formed by the epi-tym~ panics {fig. 30. 25), or upper pieces of the tympanic pedicles (pleura- pophyses of the prosencephalic vertebra): each epi-tympanic is articulated to both the post-frontals and the mastoids, and is divided artificially accordingly in fig. 30.; its articular sui’face is formed in the Cod by a single elongated condyle; in many other fishes by a double condyle, one for each of the above named cranial parapo- physes. In the Diodon the upper border of the epi-tympanic is ar- ticulated by a deeply indented suture to the frontal, the post-frontal and mastoid bones; its posterior margin supports, as in many other fishes, a circular articular surface for the opercular bone. Below the condyle, the epi-tympanic in the Cod becomes compressed laterally, but is much expanded from before backwards. The almost constant bifurcation of both ends of the epi-tympanic in osseous fishes, for ar- ticulation with two cranial parapophyses above, and suspending two inverted arches below, make it appear like a coalescence of the upper- most pieces of both those arches. In most fishes the lower end is bifid, and supports two inverted arches, the mandibular and the hyoidean; the stylo-hyoid being attached near the junction of the cpi-tympanic with the meso-tympanic. The contiguous ribs of the Chelonia are immovably connected together to ensure fixity and * By Bojanus they were regarded as the ribs of tlic second (parietal) vertebra of the head. {Anatomc Testudinis Europxa:, p. 'I'l.)