34 LECTURE II. long bones of the extremities of the colossal Iguanodons and Megalo- saurs are as capacious as in any mammalian quadruped, and the white crystallised spar with which these petrified bones are often filled, is called, not unaptly, “ fossil marrow ” by the quarry-men. In the ordi- nary marrow-bones of quadrupeds the walls of the cavity are thickest and strongest at the middle, and become thin towards the ends, where the peripheral concentric lamellae are separated by wider interspaces, and are broken up into a fine lattice or lace work. All the cavity and the cells are lined by a delicate membrane, less vascular than the exter- nal periosteum, which secretes and immediately contains the marrow ; this fine oily fluid diminishes the brittleness of the bones. A special artery called the “ medullary,” supplies the lining membrane of the medullary cavity; and the foramen and canal have the same relative position and course in most Mammalia as in Man; to wit, the canal in the humerus and tibia inclines distad, in the femur and anti- brachial bones proximad, as it approaches the medullary cavity: the true Ruminants, however, present an exception as regards the femur, in whicli the medullary artery, instead of penetrating the back part of the shaft and running upwards, enters the fore part of the shaft at its upper third, and inclines downwards. The flat bones of Mammalia, e. g. those of the cranium, the sca- pulae, and ilia, have a spongy texture, called diploe, included between two compact plates; the internal one in the cranial bones is called the “ vitreous table” from its density and brittleness. But the most compact example of the osseous tissue is the bone containing the organ of hearing, thence called “ petrous,” which, with the tympanic bone, reaches the maximum of density in the Cetacea, The bones of bii’ds, especially those of flight, present the opposite ex- treme of lightness ; not but that the osseous tissue itself is more com- pact than in most Mammalia, but its quantity in any given bone is much less, the most admirable economy being traceable throughout the skele- ton of birds in the advantageous arrangement of the weighty material for the ofiice it is destined to perform. Thus, in the long bones, the ca- vities, analogous to the medullary in mammals, are more extensive, and the solid walls of the bone much thinner; a large aperture called the “ foramen pneumaticum,” near one or both ends of the bone, com- municates with its interior, and an air-cell or prolongation of the lung is continued into and lines the cavity of the bone, which is thus filled with rarefied air instead of marrow. The extremities of the bone, instead of being occupied by a spongy diploe, present a light open network, slender columns shooting across in different di- rections from wall to wall, and these columns are likewise hollow. The vastly expanded beak, with its hornlike process, in the Hornbill