CUiUtACTJiUS OF VFKXEBUATE ANIIVIALS. 7 the delicate vibrations of that atmosphere whicli follow the mutual contact or percussion of sonorous bodies, and the finer vibrations of a more subtle £ether, the appreciation of which produces the sense of sight. With these means of perceiving, knowing, and investigating the world around them, the Vertebrated animals possess a proportionate power of acting upon and subduing it. Not any species is fixed to the earth; all can move, and every variety and power of animal locomotion is manifested in the vertebrated sub-kingdom. Yet some permanently retain the worm-like figure, which all primarily manifest in common with the embryos of the articulate series ; but always with the grand difference of the dorsal nervous column. Such vermiform species glide by undulatory inflections of the entire body through the waters, or on the surface of the ground. But in most Vertebrata special instruments of locomotion are developed; some single from the median line, some in pairs; the latter never ex- ceed four in number, two before or above, called arms, or pectoral extremities (P), and two below or behind, called legs, or pelvic extre- mities ( V) : thus, the vertebrated type is essentially tetrapodal.* The solid mechanical supporting and resisting axis, framework, or lever- age (sk) of these members is internal, vascular, and commonly ossi- fied. It is eovered, and, as it were, clothed by the muscles (m), which are attached to its outer surface. The elementary contractile fibre of the voluntary muscular system is transversely striated. The internal position of the skeleton seems to be the chief con- dition of the attainment, by certain Vertebrata, of a bulk far surpass- ing that of the largest of the Invertebrata; and the division of the skeleton into numerous pieces diversely articulated, gives great variety and precision to the movements of the Vertebrate animals. The forms and proportions of the Vertebrata are as varied as their kinds of locomotion, and the elements in which these are exercised. With very few exceptions the body is laterally symmetrical, the right and left sides corresponding. We may likewise discern a general characteristic of the Vertebrata in the tendency to a symmetrical development, or a repetition of parts in the vertical direction; that is, in the dorsal and ventral regions. Each vertebral segment of the internal skeleton, for example, forms typically a dorsal and a ventral arch; the one protecting the nervous axis, the other the vas- cular trunks and organs of plastic life. 'J'he nervous trunk itself * The homologiics of these special instruments of locomotion may exist in greater numbers, more or less developed and modified, in subserviency to other functions; as, for example, the opercular and branchiostcgal flaps of fishes, the simple appendages of the ribs in fislies and in birds. The arms and legs eonimenee in I.epidosiren, for example, as simple unbranched filamentary nppendiiges diverging from inferior vertebral arches. B 4