226 LECTUKE IX. plates of the dentinal pulp, and becomes co-calcified with them, a transverse section of such a tooth presents a series of interblended wavy or labyrinthic tracts of thick dentine radiating from the centre, and of thin cement converging towards the centre of the tooth. * An analogous but more complicated structure obtains when the ra- diating, wavy, vertical plates of dentine dichotomise, and give off from their sides, throughout their course, numerous branch plates and processes, which are traversed by medullary sinuses and canals with their peripheral terminations dilated, and becoming the centres of lobes or columns of hard dentine. The transverse section of such teeth gives the appearance of branches of a tree, with leaf-stalks and leaves, radiating from the central pulp-cavity to the circumference of the tooth; and I have called the fossil Fish in which this structure was first detected, Dendrodus f. Thus, with reference to the main and fundamental tissue of tooth, we find not fewer than six leading modi- fications in Fishes: hard or true dentine (Sparoids, Labroids, Lo- pliius, Balistes, Pycnodonts, Prionodon, Sphyrna, Megalichthys, Rhizodus, Diodon ; Scarics); osteo-dentine ( Cestracion, Acrodus, Le- pidosiren, Ctenodus, Hybodus, Percoids, Scicenoids, Cottoids, Go- bioids, and many others); vaso-dentine {Psammodus, Chhrusroids, Pristis, Myliobates) ; plici-dentine {Lophius, Holoptyehius, Lepidosteus oxyurus, at the base of the teeth); labyrintho-dentine {Lepidosteus platyrliinus, Bothriolepis) ; and dendro-dentine {Dendrodus) ; besides the compound teeth of the Scarus and Diodo?i. One structural modification may prevail in some teeth, another in other teeth of the same fish; and two or more modifications may be present in the same tooth, arising from changes in the process of calcification and a persistency of portions or processes of the primitive vascular pulp or matrix of the dentine. As might have been anticipated from the discovery of the varied and predominating vasculai’ organisation in the teeth of fishes, and the passage from non-vascular dentine to vascular dentine in the same tooth, the true law of the development of dentine “ by centri- petal metamorphosis and calcification of the cells of the pulj), was first definitely enunciated and illustrated from observations made on the development of the teeth of fishes.:}: * This remarkable structure attains its highest complication and forms the largest proportion of the tooth in the gigantic extinct Batrachia which I have thence called Labyrinthodonts, and from which, therefore, I have taken the illus- trations of that complex modification of dental structure m my » Odontography fills 63 6 64 64 a, 64 6). I had discovered in 1841 (lxxxvii.) the more simple modification of this structure “at the base of the tooth in a few Fishes,” but had not then seen so complex an example in that class as Dr. Wyman (lxxxvi. pi. v. fig. 4.) and M. Assassiz (xxii. ‘ Sauroides,’ 1843) subsequently described and figured, in teeth of the genus Lepidosteus. T P^- “■ In my Hunterian Lectures, delivered at the Royal College of Surgeons, May, 18M See also lxxxviu - 784.; and v. Introduction, and part i. passtm.