CHARACTERS OP THE CLASSES OF VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. 13 Batracliians and the thin-skinned Lizards in a degree much superior to any of the scaly class of Fishes: but the integument in many of the Reptilia is covered or studded with horny or bony scutes. The generation of Reptiles has certain analogies with that of Fishes. It is still effected in some species, as the Frogs and Toads, without intromission, and in the same species we perceive a simultaneous development of very numerous ova; but the Batrachia form the exception instead of the rule. The intromittent organ which exists in the great majority of the class is also double in most of these, as in Serpents and many Lizards. There are in the Reptilia both viviparous and oviparous species ; but the foetus in the former has no attach- ment to the womb, and the eggs in the latter are hatched by ex- traneous warmth ; the young, after exclusion, receive no parental care or tuition in any species of the class. In investigating the various strata of the Earth, which form, as it w^ere, the grave-yards of as many successive generations of species and classes, we meet with the earliest remains of air-breathing Vertebrate animals in the triassic or Permian series, subsequent to the deposition of the coal*, and we consequently infer that the date of their existence, in this planet, is much later than that of Fishes. But the Reptilian class seems soon to have acquired a vast extension, and to have flourished under a variety of forms, developed also to an enormous bulk, with powers for the acquisition and assimilation of both animal and vegetable substances, of which the present state of the class can affoi’d no adequate idea. The deposition of the chalk-formation seems to have been the date of the decline of the Reptilia, when they gave way to as varied and colossal forms of animals of a higher type of organisation. Amongst the numerous species, genera, and even orders of the Reptilia, which at that period became extinct, was one in which the anterior members of the animal were developed into wings ; these veritable “ Flying-Dragons,” the “ Pterodactyles,” as they are termed, seem to have perished when true winged Birds made tlieir appearance. The present is scarcely a suitable occasion for speculating, even if time permitted, on the probable changes in the atmosphere of our planet which accompanied those undoubted revolutions in its crust, by the investigation of which we obtain the evidence of this suc- cessive introduction of organic forms; otherwise we might discuss the reasonableness of the surmise that the atmosiihere was unfit to be breathed by lungs during tliat vast lapse of time when fishes reigned supreme upon earth; or we might enquire if the atmosphere of the * The less conclusive evidence of foot-prin'.s would carry back the datcof tlie Sala- mandroid Clieirotlicria to the coal formation.—LycU, in Silliiium's Journal, vol. ii. p. ‘25.