VEKTEDRAL COLUMN OF PISHES. 53 Returning, then, to what may be called the high road of vertebral development, we find in the Sturgeons (Sturio, Polyodon\ that the inner layer of the fibrous capsule of the gelatinous ‘ chorda ’ has in- creased in thickness, and assumed the texture of tough hyaline car- tilage. In the outer layer are developed distinct, firm, and opaque cartilages, the neurapophyses, which, in the young sturgeon 12.), are two superimposed pieces on each side, the basal portion bounding the neural canal, the apical portion the parallel canal filled by fibrous elastic ligament and adipose tissue*; above this is the single car- tilaginous neural spine. The parapophyses are now distinctly de- veloped, and joined together by a continuous expanded base, forming an inverted arch beneath the ‘ chorda ’ for the vascular ti’unks, even in Keural spine. Fibro-adipose canal. Neural canal. Gelatinous chorda.. C=^l Inner layer- of fibrous capsule as lij aline cartilage. Neurapopliysis. Interneural cartilage. Pleurapophysis. '■P.arapopliysis. - Interbrennal cartilage. . Haemal canal. Abdominal vertebra, Siurgeon. the abdomen. Short and simple pleurapophyses are articulated by ligament to the ends of the laterally projecting parapojihyses in the first twelve or twenty abdominal vertebras; the parapophyses them- selves gradually disappear, or bend down to form hasmal arches in the tail, at the end of which we find hasmal cartilaginous spines cor- responding to the neural spines above. The first five or six neural arches are confiuent with each other in the sturgeon, and, with the parapophyses, enclose the fore part of the ‘ chorda ’ in a firm, con- tinuous, cartilaginous sheath, perforated for the exit of the nerves. Tlie tapering anterior end of the ‘ chorda ’ is continued forwards into the basal elements of the cranial vertebrm. Vegetative repetition of perivertebral parts not only manifests itself in the double neurapopliysis on each side, but in a small accessaiy (interneural) cartilage, at the fore and back part of the base of the neurapopliysis ; and by a similar (interhannal) one at the fore and back part of most of the parapophyses. The peripheral cartilages are more feebly developed in the Polyodon. f * I long ago pointed out, in a preparation of Hunter’.s (No. 231.), tlie “ .space above tlie canal of the s))inal chord formed by the divarication of the cartilaginous pieces wbieh constitute the support of the spinous processes of the vertebra;. This is fliled by fihro-cartilaginous substance, connecting the processes in (piestion.” ( xx. vol. i. ) t Cuvier, Memoircs du Museum, tom. i. 181.5, p. I.IO. E 3