144- lecture VI. testaceous and crustaceous Invertebrates appears to have been the rule in the first-born fishes of our globe. Ihese prima3val members of the vertebrate sub-kingdom manifest other remarkable traits of embryonic life. The Cephalaspids of the Old Eed Sandstone were shaped like the tadpoles of Batrachia; the breathing organs and chief part of the alimentary apparatus were aggregated with the proper viscera of the cranial cavity, in an enormous cephalic enlargement; the rest of the trunk was for loco- motion, and dwindled away to a point. The cephalic abdominal enlargement was defended by large bony scutes; the muscular tail- part was, in the higher species (^Coccosteus^, strengthened by an in- completely developed vertebral axis, with intercalary and dermal spines, supporting a dorsal and an anal fin. The position of the anal fin proves the anus to have been situated, as in tadpoles, im- mediately behind the cephalic abdominal expansion. In the lowest forms, as Pterichthys, the mouth was small and inferior, as in the young tadpole, and the post-cephalic or abdominal part of the en- largement very short and ill-defined. In the Coccosteus it nearly equals the cranial part of the enlargement; the scutes are fewer, larger, and show the progress of coalescence; the mouth is anterior, large, and formed by well developed dentigerous upper and lower jaws. In this genus the cephalic or opercular appendages are in- conspicuous or reduced to the normal proportions; in Pamphractus and Pterichthys they form long fin-like appendages, projecting from the sides of the cephalic enlargement, like the external gills of the Batrachian and Selachian larvae, and they may have supported external fringed gills in the ancient Cephalaspids. Genesis of Fins. — In the order of succession of Fishes the develop- ment of locomotive organs is first restricted, as in most Cephalaspids, to the region of the head: in Pterichthys and Pamphractus they project like pectoral fins (vvhich M. Agassiz describes them to be) from the sides of the head just anterior to the division between the facial and nuchal plates, and from the place corresponding to that occupied by the pedicle of the lower jaw, from which the opercular fin projects in the Sturgeon. There is no trace of true pectoral, ventral, or of vertical fins in these Cephalaspids. In the Coccosteus these cephalic fins are reduced to ordinary opercular proportions (they appear to be represented by the plate h in the restored side view, given by M. Agassiz, Op. cit. tab. xxiv.) ; but here we have the earliest manifestation of dorsal and anal fins, without, however, any modification of the terminal vertebra3 to form a caudal fin, either heterocercal or homocercal, and without the slightest trace of true pectoral or ventral fins. In the Dipterus and Qhyptolcpis there are two closely approximated dorsal and two anal