THE SKELETON. 23 the nerve-trunks seems to be accidental, dejicnding upon the position of the muscular masses to which they give attachment, and which office is the essential condition of their existence. For this purpose the processes of the exo-skeleton of Insecta and Crustacea must go in- wards, and thus they happen to protect certain parts of the nervous system. Only the highest of the Mollusca possess a true homologue of the endo-skeleton, developed in relation to the defence of the nervous centres: but it is a feeble cartilaginous rudiment in the best organised Cephalopods ; and, in the cuttle-fish, is far outweighed by the calca- reous dorsal plate which stiU represents the exo-skeleton of the tes- taceous mollusks. Thus a cartilaginous cranial vertebra co-exists in the highest Invertebrata with a calcareous dermal skeleton; and there is no abrupt contrast in passing thence to the consideration of the skeleton in the Vertebrata. The exo-skeleton is by no means indeed dispensed with in the Ver- tebrate series, although the endo-skeleton is constant, and here attains its full development. In the lowest class, most fishes, for example, pre- sent an imbricated outer covering of scales, developed like shells, between the derm and epiderm : other fishes have hard osseous plates or spines scattered over their exterior, or are entirely surrounded by a connected armour of dense enamelled bony scales, as in the Lepidosteus and the Ostracion, which latter fish offers an instructive example of the co-existence of an exo- with an endo-skeleton, and a convincing refutation of the idea of the homology of the annular segment of the crust of the lobster with a true typical vertebra. In the subjoined diagram, {fig. 7.) n is the cartilaginous neural canal; jpl, the membranous pleurapophysial wall of the abdomen; A, the arterial and venous trunks of the abdomen; dn, dp, dh, the der- mal ganoid plates. The ossified scutes of the Crocodiles and the tesselated armour of the Armadillos are examples of the exo-skeleton co-existing with a well-developed and ossified endo-skeleton ; and wherever the exo-skeleton of a Vertebrate animal is calcified, it presents the same organised vascular structure and vital properties as the bones within. Most commonly the exo- skeleton of the air-breathing Vertebrata is epidermal, as wlicre it forms the scales of the serpent or lizard, tlie large plates of tlie tortoise, the imbricated pointed scales of tlie manis, tlie spines of tlie hedgehog, the quills of the porcupine, the feathers of tlie bird, or the hair of the ordinary mammal. Segment of endo- and exo- skeletons, Ostracion.