136 LECTURE VI. the turbinate bone, to which it is attached by ligament, and it is articulated by its upper and posterior angle with the pre- frontal : from its position it might be termed the pre-orbital bone. The second sub-orbital, a much smaller and sub-quadrate bone, is attached to the lower and posterior angle of the first; and the rest, four in number, of similar form, and gradually smaller in size, com- plete the chain extending to the post-orbital angle of the os frontis. There are no supra-orbitals in the Cod : the Carp has a single one on each side; the Lepidosteus has three supra-orbitals, whieh quite exclude the frontal from entering into the formation of the orbit. The supra-temporal scale bones are three in number on each side in the Cod, extending backwards from the outer and hinder part of the mastoid: they are very thin, transparent scales, folded on themselves to form a prolongation of the mucous channel, which extends from above the mastoid and frontal bones. The large pre-orbital seale- bone is similarly folded upon itself, from above downwards, forming a mucous channel, extending from the orbit to the nasal sac, and analogous to the muco-lachrymal groove and canal in the lachrymal bone of higher Vertebrata, which always presents a similar position and connections. The smaller sub-orbitals are subservient, chiefly, to the formation of similar mucous ducts, which are completed in these, as in the supra-temporals, by aponeurotic processes of the corium, and are lined by mucous membrane continued from many small and numerous excretory pores on the outer surface of the skin, and forming, in the Cod, ramified secreting follicles in the in- terior of the bony canals. The bony canals themselves are ramified in the corresponding dermal ossicles of the Herring. The turbinate bones, from their intimate relation with the olfactory sacs, appertain by their form and structure to the same category as the sub-orbitals, and are, with the anterior of these mucigerous ossicles, the only bones of the dermal system eonstantly retained in the higher Vertebrata, even to Man, under the names of ‘ lachrymal’ and ‘ spongy’ bones. The turbinate bones are very small in the Conger ; and both these and the sub-orbital bones are wanting in the rest of the Eel tribe. The sub- orbital bones present their maximum of development in the Mailed- cheeked (Trigla) and Sciasnoid Fishes ; in the Star-gazer (Urano- scopus') and the Lepidoleprus: in the ScicBna gangetica they extend over the tympanic pedicle almost to the pre-opercular, and have a bold reticulate exterior, like that bone, the mastoid, and the supra- scapular bone. In the skull of the Cod you may observe many bones whieh send a scale-like process from their outer surfaee, whieh process forms a more or less complete canal for the ducts of mucous glands. Ihe frontal, the