8 INTRODUCTORY LECTURE. consists of doi’sal and ventral columns. Whilst the Invertehrata manifest a general tendency to development in breadth, the Ver- tebrata rather gain in height by this doubling or repetition of parts in the vertical or dorso-ventral direction: and in this we may discern tlie tendency to rise above the surface of the earth, until in man the entire body is uplifted ; and what is beloio and above in all other Vertebrata, in him becomes before and behind. The general external integument in the Vertebrata is rarely bur- thened and clogged by large and massive calcareous plates, but is usually defended by light, and sometimes exquisitely organised and singularly complex developments of the epidermal covering ; modified according to the spheres of existence, the habitual temperature and movements, and therefore eminently characteristic of the different classes of Vertebrated animals. The actions of the unusually developed nervous element, — whether the vibrating filament conveys to the sentient centre impressions from without, or, obedient to the inward intelligence, imparts from within the stimulus of volition to the moving fibre, — are essentially productive of change. It is most probable that the same nervous fibre is not equally fit for two successive actions ; but needs, after each, a certain amount of restoration. The same may be predicated of the action of the muscular fibre ; viz., that some change, no matter how small, but to that extent unfitting it for the due repetition of the act, is the consequence of its stimulated contraction : and thus the continued existence of the living animal requires the presence of organs of renewal and repair in intimate, but harmonious combination, with those of sensation and motion. The raw material of this restoration is derived from without: the alimentary canal, in which the conversion and animalisation of the food take place, is provided, in the Vertebrata, with two apertures, an entry or mouth (os), and an excremental outlet {as). The jaws {j) are two in number, and placed one below or behind the other, working vertically or in the axis of trunk; the jii'incipal part of the alimentary canal is contained in an abdominal cavity, and is sup- ported by a reflection of the serous membrane upon the walls of that cavity; and the canal is divided into oesophagus (ce), stomach {g\ and intestine (f). All Vertebrata have a liver (Z) which is usually a very complicated gland, with a special venous or portal system of vessels; and the biliary secretion is conveyed into the commence- ment of the intestine. The pancreas {p\ which in most Vertebrata presents the form of a compact and conglomerate gland, adds its se- cretion to the bile in the duodenum. The spleen (.v), a cellulo- vascular ganglion, or gland Avithout a duct, makes its first appearance coiiicidontly with that of the portal vein, and manifests a progressive