209 NEKVOUS SYSTEM OE FISHES. The largest {fig. 30. le") is an oval or round flattened body, striated and indented at the margins; convex, and sometimes grooved {Ephip- pus), on one side, more or less excavated on the other. The smaller otolite is less regular in its shape : there are often two of these. Each semicircular canal rises by an ampulliform end (jig. 58. e,fi, g) from the ‘ alveus communis,’ {a) and communicates, by the opposite end, either with another canal, or with the vestibule separately, without previous dilatation r two of the canals are sub-ver*tical in their course, and are anterior (e) and posterior (g) in relative posi- tion : the third canal (fi) is external and horizontal. A septum is continued across the ampulla from the line where the division of the acoustic nerve enters r a large proportion of the nerve expands upon the sac of the otolites. All the parts of the labyrinth are of large size; yet the compartments of the otocrane which the semicircular canals traverse “ are much too wide for them, and they are supported in these passages by a very flne cellular membrane.”'* The Chimmrm and Sturgeons resemble the bony Ashes in the form and position of the labyrinth. The otolites are a hard chalky sub- stance in the Lepfdosiren; in which flsh, as well as in the Plagio- stomes, the whole labyiinth is buried in the thick basi-lateral walls of the cranium : in both the cartilaginous capsule conforms more closely in size and configuration tO' the membranous labyrinth ; its passages and compartments are lined by a delicate perichondrium, from which filaments are detached to support the semicircular canals. The vesti- bule is divided in the Skate and Tope into three compartments,—the ‘ alveus communis’ (fig. 59. a); the sac (ib; b) and the cysticule (ib. c), and it has also a small csecal appendage, called the ‘ utricule ’ (ib. d): the otolitic contents are like soft chalk, and are disposed in two masses ; one very large, occupying the sac and the cysticule, the other small, and lodged in the utricule. A canal extends in Shairks from the vesti- bular capsule to a foramen at the upper part of the occiput, which is closed by the skin. In the Rays, besides this ‘ fenestra capsulse’ (ib. v), a membranous canal (ib. o, p) is pro- duced from the vestibule itself, and, as Hunter well describes, “^from the union of the two perpendicular canals {fig. 59. p) ; which is the case with all the Ray kind, the external orifice being small, and placed on the upper flat surface of the head.” So minute and approximated are these ‘ outer ears,’ f that • Hunter, vii. iii. p. loi. f Ib. p. 389. pi. xxxiii. fig. 1. Hunter’s original memoir “ On the Organ of VOL. II. P