173 NERVOUS SYSTEM OF EISIIES. puir of spimil nerves. The iibseiice of this ganglion in tlie vShark shows that it relates not to tlie strength of the tail but to its form, as depending on the concentration and coalescence of the terminal vertebrae; except, indeed, Avhere such meta- morphosis is extreme, as, e. g. in Orthagoriscus mola, and where it affects the entire condition of the myelon, which has shrunk into a short, conical, and, according to Arsaki (liii. tab. iii. fig. 10.), gangliated appendage to the encephalon. A like singular modification, but without the ganglionic structure, obtains in Tetrodon and Diodon, in a species of which latter genus I found the myelon {fig. 47. m.) only four lines long in a fish of seven inches in length, and measuring three inches across the head. Tlie neural canal in these Plec- tognathic fishes is chiefly occupied by a long ‘ cauda equina’ {ib. c. e.). But, insignificant as the myelon here seems, it is something more than merely unre- solved nerve fibres: transverse white strim are dis- BrainandMye- cemiblc ill it, with grey matter, showing it to be a '°nau3ize"' Centre of nervous force, not a mere conductor. In the Lophius a long cauda equina partly conceals a short myelon which terminates in a point at about the twelfth vertebra : in other fishes the myelon is very nearly or quite co-extensive with the neural canal, and there is no cauda equina, or bundle of nerve roots, in the canal: a tendinous thread sometimes ties the terminal ganglion to the end of the canal. A shallow longitudinal fissure divides the ventral surface, and a deeper one the dorsal surface, of the myelon, into equal moieties : a feeble longitudinal lateral impression (Sturgeon) subdivides these into dorsal and ventral columns; in other fishes (Cod, Herring) these are separated by a lateral tract, and six columns or chords may be distinguished in the myelon ; two dorsal or sensory, two ventral or motory; and two lateral or restiform tracts. A minute cylindrical canal extends from the fourth ventricle, beneath (ventrad of) the bottom of the dorsal fissure, along the entire myelon; this canal is not exposed in the recent fish by merely divaricating the dorsal columns. Both lateral halves of the myelon have grey matter in their interior, and white transvei'se strias. Altliough many fishes (Bream, Dorsk) show a slight enlargement at eadi junction of the nerve roots with the myelon, the anatomical student will look in vain in tlie recent Eel, or Lump-fish, for that ganglionic structure of the myelon which the descriptions of Cuvier* might lead him to expect. * xxm. i. p. 3‘_’3.; xiii. iii. p. 170'.