213 ELECTKTC ORGANS OP FISHES. conspicuous in Pi’cparations 2176 and 2177* Hunter, who counted 470 columns in each organ, describes the partitions as being very vascular: — “ The arteries,” he says, “ are branches from the vessels of the gills, which convey the blood that has received the influence of respiration.” But the most characteristic feature of the organi- sation of the electric battery is, as Hunter also demonstrates, its enormous supply of nervous matter. Each organ derives this supply from one branch of the trigeminal 45, 5), and from four branches of the vagal nerves (z5id. 8, s), and the four anterior nerves are each as thick as the spinal chord: the last nerve is a feeble branch of the vagus. The trigeminal and vagal enlargements of the olivary and restiform tracts coalesce on each side, forming the so-called ‘ electric lobes’ of the medulla oblongata. The electric branch of the flfth nerve may be deflned, even at its origin, from the true ganglionic part of that nerve; and Professor Savi* affirms that both this and the vagal branches consist entirely of the primitiYe nerve-fibres of animal life, or “a double contour;” and that they are distributed by successive resolution into smaller and smaller fasciculi, until they finally penetrate the septa of the columns, and. terminate thereon by meshes formed by loops, or by the return and anastomosis of the terminal elementary nerve-fibres. | In the eel-like Gymnotus the electric organs are four in number, and are situated two on each side the body, extending from behind the pectoral fins to near the end of the tail (see Preps. 2186, 2187). They occupy and almost constitute the whole lower half of the trunk; the upper organ is much larger than the lower one, from which it is separated by a thin muscular and aponeurotic stratum. The organs of one side are separated from those of the other, above by the verte- bral column and its muscles, then by the air-bladder, and below this by an aponeurotic septum. From this septum, and from that coyering the air-bladder, thei’e extend outwards, to be attached to the skin, a series of horizontal, or nearly horizontal, membranes, arranged in the longitudinal axis of the body nearly parallel to one another; they are of great but varying length, some being co-extensive with the whole organ; their breadth is almost that of the semidiameter of the plane of the body in which they are situated. These membranes are about half a line apart at their outer borders ; but, as they pass from the skin towards their inner attachments, they approach one another. They are intersected transversely by more delicate vertical plates, extending from the skin to the median aponeurosis, and co-extensive in length with the breadth of the septa between which they are • Lxxvi. p. 318. t Savi. “ Actes du Congres Scientifique, a Florence,” 1840.