THE SKULL OF FISHES. 79 expanded end of this ossified part supporting, as in the Squatina, the neurapophyses of the atlas {fig. 28. ii), the bases of which expand and meet above that end of the ossified chorda and below the spinal Skeleton of Lepidosiren annectens. canal. Ossification of the fibrous sheath of the chorda, commencing posteriorly at its under part (ib. b), ascends upon the sides as it advances forwards, and incloses it above, where it supports the me- dulla oblongata, and the lateral bony plates (neurapophyses) called 28 ex-occipitals {ib. 2); leaving behind a wide oblique concavity lodging the anterior unossified end of the ‘chorda,’ which does not extend further upon the ‘ basis cranii.’ The ex-occipitals {fig. 27, 28. 2, 2), Atlas and expand as they ascend and converge to meet above occipital vertebra, i,.,, a Lepidosiren. the loramen magnum which they complete. A small mass of cartilage connects their upper ends with each other, and with the overhanging backward projecting point of the fronto- occipital spine {ib. 3). This cartilaginous mass answers to the base of the supra-occipital in better ossified fishes: a similar cartilage connects the ex-occipitals with the occipital spine in the Tetrodon. We clearly perceive in the Lepidosiren that ossification, advancing on the common cartilaginous mould of the plagiostomous skull, has marked out the posterior cranial vertebra, and not only its neura- pophyses but also its centrum; the neural spine being left in a less com- pletely ossified state than in the vertebree of the trunk. The occipital pleurapophyses (scapulte, fig. 27. 5i) are much more developed, and appear as two strong, bony, styliform appendages, articulated by a synovial capsule and joint, one on each side, to the persistent carti- laginous base of the neurapophyses (ex-occipitals), and partly to the centrum or basi-occipital. To the lower and less expanded ends of the pleurapophyses are attached the extremities of the hcemapo- physes (coracoids, fig. 27. 52) ; and thus is completed the hosmal arch of the occipital vertebra, here unusually developed in relation to its office of protecting the heart and pericardium: the haimapophyses or coracoids belong to the same category of vertebral elements as the sternal ribs which protect the heart in higher Vertebrata. The costal ,or haemal arch of the occipital vertebra of the Lepidosiren supports an appendage {fig. 27. 67), projecting outwards and backwards like