DERMAL BONES OF FISHES. 143 island. In the chalk formations the members of both Ganoids and Placoids multiply rapidly, and in all the older fossiliferous strata they exclusively represent the class of fishes. The predominance of osseous matter deposited in the tegumentary system in these ancient extinct fishes is not unfrequently accompanied by indications of a semi-cartilaginous state of the endo-skeleton, like that in the Lepido- siren of the present day; the total absence of any trace of vertebral centres in this fossilised skeleton of the Microdon radiatus (No. 70. Fossil Fishes, Mus. Coll. Chirurg.), and the vacant tract, where they should have been, between the bases of the neur- and hmma-pophyses which have been little disturbed; together with the remains of the ganoid scale-armour which has kept all the fossilisable parts of the extinct fish together, show plainly enough that the primitive gela- tinous chorda dorsalis has been persistent. In not one of the nu- merous extinct fishes of the Devonian and Silurian systems has a vertebral centrum been discovered ; but the enamelled dermal osseous scales and plates are richly developed, and most remarkable for their beautiful and varied external sculpturing, and often for their great size. In the Coccosteus they form a broad helmet upon the head, and a back-plate and breast-plate for the fore part of the trunk, and have been mistaken for the scutes of a Try onyx or Mud-tortoise; whilst only the peripheral arches and spines of the vertebrae of this fish were ossified, and a great proportion of the cranial vertebrae was cartilaginous. In the still better defended Pterichthys and Pam- phractus*, which have been mistaken for extinct Crustacea, all the in- ternal skeleton was soft and perishable, and the earthy salts were ex- clusively developed in that peripheral skeleton, which forms the sole calcified defence of the invertebrate classes of animals. It is a striking and suggestive fact this prevalence of a low and rudimental state of the cndo-skeleton, with an excessive development of the exo-skeleton, in the fishes of the old Silurian and Devonian strata — the earliest jieriods at which Geology teaches that fishes were introduced into this planet. At the present day the Lepidosiren repeats the low con- dition of the endo-skeleton, but without the compensating ganoid or placoid developments of the skin ; and the Siluroids combine the large tuberculated osseous dermal plates with a well ossified internal skeleton. The existing Sturgeons alone manifest contrasted conditions of the endo- and exo-skeletons, like those in the ancient Cephalaspids ; but what is now a rare and exceptional instance of analogy to tlie * See M. Agassiz’ admirable, philosojihical, and splendidly illustrated mono- graph, “ Sur Ics Poissons Fossiles du Systeino Devonien,” 4lo. tab. 24—31.