153 TELEOLOGY OE THE SKELETON OF IHSIIES. cation of the branchial arches in connection with the transitory manifestation of cartilaginous branchial arches in the larvas of the Batrachia : this is one of those similarities that has led to the meta- phorical expressions of “ gigantic tadpoles,” as applied to fishes. But we see how admirably the branchial arches are adapted to the aquatic respiration of the fish, by their advance to a grade of deve- lopment, which they are never destined to attain in the frog. Observe their firm ossification, their elastic joints, the sieve-like valves developed from the side next to the month, pre-arranged with the utmost complexity and nicety of adjustment to prevent the entry of any particles of food or other irritating matters into the inter- space of the tender, highly vascular, and sensitive gills. Observe, also, how the last pair of these arches is reduced to the capacity of the pharynx which it surrounds, how it is thickened in order to support teeth of multiform character, according to the nature of the food; in short, converted into an accessory pair of jaws, and the most important of the two. In no other Vertebrate Animals is the mouth provided with maxillary instruments at both fore and hind apertures; in no other part of the ichthyic organisation is the special divergence from any conceivable progi’essive scale of ascending structure culminating in Man so plainly marked as in this. All writers on Animal Mechanics have shown how admirably the whole form of the fish is adapted to the element in which it lives and moves: the viscera are packed in a small compass, in a cavity brought forwards close to the head; and w^hilst the consequent abro- gation of the neck gives the advantage of a more fixed and resisting connection of the head to the trunk, a greater proportion of the trunk behind is left free for the development and allocation of the muscular masses which are to move the tail. In the caudal, which is usually the longest, portion of the trunk, transverse processes cease to be developed, whilst dermal and intercalary spines shoot out from the middle line above and below, and give the vertically extended, com- pressed form, most efficient for the lateral strokes, by the rapid alter- nation of which the fish is propelled forwards in the diagonal, be- tween the direction of those forces. The advantage of the bi-concave form of vertebra with intervening elastic capsules of gelatinous fluid, in effecting a combination of the resilient with the muscular power, is still more obvious in the Bony Fishes than in the Shark. You may be reminded that all the vertebra3 of the trunk are dis- tinct from one another at one stage of the quadruped’s development, as in the fish tlu-oughout life; and you might suppose that the absence of that development and confluence of certain vertcbraj near the tail, to form a sacrum, was a mark of inferiority in fishes.