94- LECTURE V. the cranial cavity, it usually sends upwards a little process on each side; or, as in Fistularia, a transverse ridge. The basi-sphenoid is smooth below, where it is usually flattened or convex, but sometimes IS produced downwards in the form of a median ridge, and sometimes is perforated for the lodgment of certain muscles of the eye-ball. In the Polypterus both the ali-sphenoids and orbito-sphenoids are anchylosed to the basi-sphenoid, and the result is a bone that answers to the major part of the ‘os sphenoides ’ in Anthropotomy. As two large and important haemal arches of the head are suspended from the parapophyses of the second and third cranial vertebrae, this seems to be the condition of the flxation and coalescence of the bodies of those vertebrae in all Fishes. The ali-sphenoids (neurapophyses of the parietal vertebra, ih. 6. 6.) are firmly articulated by broad sutural surfaces to the ex- panded sides of the basi-sphenoid, above which their bases usually meet and immediately support the third ventricle or mesencephalon, or leave an interspace for its pituitary prolongation, which then rests in a cavity or ‘sella’ of the basi-sphenoid. In some fishes, Perch and Carp, the base of each ali-sphenoid rises some way above the basi-sphenoid, and then sends inwards a horizontal plate, which, meeting that of the opposite ali-sphenoid, forms the immediate support of the mesencephalon, and at the same time the roof of a canal, ex- cavated in the basi-sphenoid, and which traverses the base of the skull, below the cranial cavity from before backwards, opening behind at the under part of the basi-occipital; this subcranial canal exists in the Salmonoids, Sparoids, Scomberoids, and is very remarkable in most fishes with lofty compi-essed skulls, as the Ephippus : it exists in some Clupeoids, as the Herring, but not in the Salamandroid Fishes. The subcranial canal resembles, but is not homologous with, being difierently formed from, the posterior prolongation of the nasal pas- sages in the Crocodiles, and it lodges some of the muscles of the eye-ball. The form of the ali-sphenoids is influenced by that of the skull: when this is low and flat, their antero-posterior exceeds their vertical extent; in deep and compressed skulls they are narrow and high plates; in ordinary shaped skulls they present either a sub- circular form, and are perforated as in the Carp (Jip. 35. e), or are re- niform, the anterior border being deeply notclied, as in the Cod (Jiff. 30.6): they form a more definite and fixed proportion of the lateral parietes of the skull than do the peti-osals {ib. le), which are interposed between them and the ex-occipitals ; and they have their essential func- tion in sustaining and protecting the sides of the mesencephalon, and in affording exit to the second and third divisions of the fifth pair of