x39 DERMAL BONES OF FISHES. dire aussi que le scapulaire n’est qu’une tres grande ecaille de la partie anterieure des flancs” (xxn. livraison 6me, 1836, tom. iv. p. 69.). And lie adds, “L’opinion que j’ai emise a leur egard prouve que je suis loin d’admettre les rapports que I’on a cru trouver entre les pieces operculaires et les osselets de I’oreille interne” {Ib. p. 73.). I apprehend that the idea of the development of the opercular bones by the suecessive excretion or deposition of layers, one beneath the other, according to the mode in which M. Agassiz supposes scales to be formed, was derived merely from the appearance of the con- centric lines on the opercular, sub-opercular, and inter-opercular bones in many Fishes. I have examined the development of the opercular bone in young Gold-fish and Carp, and I find that it is effected in precisely the same manner as that of the frontal and pari- etal bones. The cells which regulate the intus-susception and depo- sition of the earthy particles make their appearance in the primitive blastema in successive concentric layers, according to the same law which presides over the concentric arrangements of the radiated cells around the medullary canals in the bones of the higher Verte- brata : and the term “ successive deposition,” in the sense of excretion, is inapplicable to the formation of the opercular bones. The inter-opercular as well as the pre-opercular bones exist in the Lepidosiren annectens with all the characters, even to the green colour, of the rest of the ossified parts of the endo-skeleton: the pre- opercular as an appendage to the tympanic arch, the inter-opercular being partly attached to the hyoid arch. Of the supra-scapular there is no trace in the Lepidosiren ; but in the Sturgeon it plainly exists {fig. 43. 5o) as part of the cartilaginous endo-skeleton, under the same bifurcate form, and double connection with the cartilaginous skull, as we have seen it to present in most Osseous Fishes. The large triangular bony scale (ih. d 50) firmly adheres to its broad, triangular, flat, outer surface. The epi- and meso-tympanic cartilages {ih. 25, 2g) in like manner expand posteriorly, and give a similar support to the large opercular scale. Were the supporting cartilages of the oper- cular and supra-scapular scales to become ossified in the Sturgeon, tliey could doubtless become anchylosed to the dermal bony plates, and bones, truly homologous with the opercular and supra-scapular in ordinary Osseous Fislies, would thus be composed of parts of the endo- and exo-skeleton blended together. I cannot, therefore, concur with Von Baer in the opinion that tlie opercular bones are ribs of the exo-skeleton, nor witli Agassiz tliat botli the opercular and siqu’a- sca])ular bones arc merely modified scales. The .supra-scapular bone is the, ploiirapo[)liysial element of the occipital arch, i. c. the upj)cr or first part of the hoomal arch of that vertebra, and corresponds in