THIO SKULL OF OSSEOUS FISHES. 89 c. The bones of the dermo-skeleton are: — Nos. of bones. Supra-temporals Supra-orbitals Sub-orbitals Labials - - 71 - 72 73, 73' - 74* SUPEKIOR (neural) ARCHES OF THE CR^tNIAL VERTEBRAE. The first series of enclo-skeletal bones constitutes the axis or back- bone of the skull, as the rest of the vertebral neural arches do that of the trunk ; and it includes and protects the encephalon or anterior expanded extremity of the great nervous axis. The under and upper parts of the annular segments are commonly formed by single and symmetrical bones, as in the vertebral axis of the trunk; but sometimes, even in the present low class, the expansion of the cranial cavity is accompanied, not only by a transverse development, but also by a median division of the upper piece or key-bone of one or more of the protecting arches. Though subject to various degrees of anchylosis, the cranial ver- tebras always accord in number with the primary ganglions or divi- sions of the encephalon in Fishes. For the better understanding of this important relation, I may premise that the brain of Fishes con- sists of four primary divisions succeeding each other in a linear series horizontally, which, viewed from behind forwards, are : — 1. The medulla oblongata, with the superimposed cerebellum, or the ‘ epencephalon.’ 2. The third ventricle, with its upper (pineal) and lower (hypo- physial) prolongations, and the superimposed optic lobes, or the ‘ mesencephalon.’ 3. The cerebrum proper, or ‘ prosencephalon.’ 4. The olfactory ganglionic or chord-like prolongation of the cerebrum, or ‘ rhinencephalon.’ In most osseous fishes, as in this disarticulated skull of the Cod ( Gadus Morrhua), the bones encompassing, or in vertebral relation with, the epencephalon are six in number (»/. 30. and y?f/. 31. i.). In the human skull the only bones that can, with any probability, be referred to the dermal system arc the ‘lachrymal.’ The splanchnic system is reduced to the capsules of the organs of sense, of which only those of the car and nose arc ossified. The endo-skcletal bones form the same number of neural and hicmal j arches as in the fish, but that of the occipital vertebra is far removed from its cen- trum, and neither the mandibular nor hyoidean arches retain diverging appendages.