DIGESTIVE SYSTEM OF FISHES. 233 tlie return of such fishes or mollusks as may have been swallowed alive and uninjured by the small obtuse teeth of this great Shark. In many Osseous Fishes we may, finally, notice the communication of the ‘ ductus pneumaticus ’ with the oesophagus, usually by a small simple foramen ; but provided with special muscles in the Lepidosteus, where it opens upon the dorsal aspect of the oesophagus, and with a siihincter and cartilage in the Polypterus, and Lepidosiren, where it communicates like a true glottis with the ventral surface of the beginning of the oesophagus. In the Globe-fishes {Diodon, Tetrodori) the great air-sac seems to be a more direct development, as a cul de sac, of the oesophagus (prep. 2095.). These singular fishes blow themselves up by swallowing the air, which escapes through a large anterior oblique orifice into the sac: and this again communi- cates with the fore-part of the oesophagus by a second orifice much smaller than the first, and having a tumid valvular margin. * The cardiac orifice of the stomach is occasionally defined by a con- striction, as in the Planirostra (yfig. 61. e), and Mormyrus (yfig. 63. e) : but an increased expansion with increased vascularity and a more delicate epithelial lining of the mucous membrane more usually in- dicate, in Fishes, the beginning of the digestive cavity. The stomach is a simple and commonly an ample cavity, with a great disproportion in the diameters of the cardiac and pyloric orifices ; in the Cornish Porbeagle-Shark, for example, the cardiac entry will readily admit a child’s head, whilst the pyloric outlet will barely allow of the passage of a crow-quill. There are two predominant forms of the stomach in Fishes, viz. the ‘ siphonaP and the ‘ cmcalin the first it presents the form of a bent tube or canal, as in the specimens f from the Turbot, Flounder, Sole, Cod, Haddock, Salmon, Carp, Tench, Ide, Lump-fish, Lepidosteus, Sturgeon, Paddle-fish {Jig. 61. e, /), and most Plagiostomes; in the D second form the cardiac division of the stomach terminates in a blind * i.xvi. t. iii. p. 271. pi. 47. f llcfcrcnce was made to preparations or recent dissections on tlic lecture- table.