VERTEBRAL COLUMN OF FISHES. 59 to which are added in the abdominal region of most fishes two pleura- pophyses (pi), or vertebral floating ribs. Ossification commences in the bases of the two neurapophyses and the two parapophyses, and in the terminal concave plates of the cen- trum ; the intermediate part of the centrum is sometimes completely ossified, when it is filled by a coarse cancellous texture. More com- monly a communicating aperture is left between the two terminal concavities, (as indicated by the dotted line in Jig. 16.) ; and, in many cases, the plates by which calcification attains the periphery of the body leave interspaces permanently occupied by cartilage, forming cavities in the dried vertebrae, especially at their under part, or giving a reticulate surface to the sides of the centrum. The expanded bases of the neur- and par-apophyses usually soon become confluent with the bony centrum : sometimes first expanding so as wholly to enclose it, as, for example, in the Tunny, where the line of demarcation may always be seen at the border of the articular concavity, though it be quite obliterated at the centre, as a section through that part demon- strates. In the Pike the neurapophyses seldom, in the Polypterus never, coalesce with the centrum: the letter s shows the neurapophysial suture in Jig. 17. In the SalmonidcB the parapophyses remain, for some time, distinct from the body of the vertebra as well as from the ribs. In the anterior vertebrae of the Carp the neurapophyses remain distinct, as they do in the atlas of many other fishes, and a sutm-e is observable between the parapophyses and centrum in embryo Cyprinoids.* In each vertebra the summits of the two neurapophyses usually become an- chylosed together, and to their spine; but in the Lepidosiren {Jig. 27.) the spine retains its character as a distinct element, and is always at- tached by ligament to the tops of the neurapophyses, as it is in the Sturgeon {fig. 12.). In the anterior abdominal vertebrse of the Tetro- don, each of the neurapophyses, though they coalesce in the interspace of the two spines to form the roof of the neural canal, sends up its own broad truncated spine, and these are not, as might at first sight be supposed, enormously developed oblique processes, for they gra- dually approximate and blend together, to form the single normal spine at the sixth abdominal vertebra : in the Barbel the neural arches also support two spines, but one is placed bcliind the other. The interspaces of the neural arches are occupied by a fibrous aponeurosis — the remains of tlie primitive essential covering of the neural axis: but in most fishes the arches are additionally con- ' nected together by articular or oblique processes (zygapophyscs), which are developed from the base of each neurapoi)hysis ; sometimes * First noticed by Von Uacr.