VERTEBRAL COLUMN OF FISHES. 55 tebral biconical spaces.* The rest of the centrum is strengthened by a beautiful arrangement of osseous plates, with intervening layers of cartilage (yfig. 13.). Four sub-compressed conical cavities ex- tend, two from the bases of the neura- pophyses (w, n), and two from those of the parapophyses (p, p) towards the centre of the vertebral body, contracting as they pe- netrate it. These cavities always remain filled by a clear cartilage : the central two- thirds of the vertebral body contain con- centric and minutely perforated rings or , cylinders of bone, interrupted by the four Vertical transverse section of i i i • i c^.n\.xwxaoxseiachemaxima. depressions: the peripheral third contains longitudinal bony laminae, which radiate, perpendicularly to the plane of the outermost cylinder, toward the periphery of the ver- tebra: these outer laminae lie, therefore, parallel with the axis of the vertebra, and the intervening fissures, like those between the concentric cylinders within, are filled by clear cartilage, which shrinks and leaves them open in the dry vertebra. There is a transition from the cylindrical to the longitudinal lamellar structure; the outer cylinder being broken up, and sending out processes which join the irregular inner edges of the outer lamellm. There are few examples in the animal economy in which the smallest possible quantity of earthy matter is arranged according to such beautiful and clearly manifested mechanical principles, for affording the greatest amount of strength, and that degree of resistance which the necessarily light, semi-ossified vertebra of a gigantic Shark, maintaining itself near the surface by muscular exertion, without help from a swim-bladder, must have to sustain during the vigorous inflexions of the vertebral column, producing the violent compressions of their interposed elastic balls. I have been induced to enter into the details of the condition of the vertebrm of the Selache, both on account of the large scale on which the beautiful structure is shown, and because of the meagre notice of it in Home’s “ Anatomy of the Basking Shark ( Squalus maximus t),” of which John MUller justly complains. MiiUer’s inference that the vertebrae of Selache resemble those of Lamna is correct: but in Lamna cornubica the outer longitudinal plates are fewer, and are bent so as to intercept long elliptical spaces filled with cartilage. , * Mr. Clift found, on piercing the capsule with a knife, that the contained fluid was spirted out to a considerable distance, by the contraction or recoil of the tensely filled elastic bag. See Prep. Nos. 2S7 a. and 237 n. and xx. vol. i. 18.32. t Pbil. Tran.s. 1809, p. 177. 10 4