38 LECTURE II. definitions of single bones in anthropotomy, goes so far as to state that, in order to ascertain the true number of bones in each species, we must descend to the primitive osseous centres as they are mani- fested in the foetus.* According to this rule we ought to count the humerus as three bones, and the femur as four bones instead of one ; for the ossification of the latter begins at four distinct points, one for the shaft, one for the head, one for the great trochanter, and one for the distal condyles. But who will be induced to regard these parts and processes as dis- tinct bones ? No such distinction is kept up in any of the lower classes. In both Birds and Reptiles the femur is developed from a single centre. The rule laid down by the great French anatomist fails in its ap- plication to the difficult point under consideration, because he did not distinguish between those centres of ossification that have homological relations,’and those that have only teleological ones : i. e. between the separate points of ossification of a human bone which typify per- manently distinct bones in the lower animals, and the separate points which, without such signification, facilitate ossification, and have for their final cause the well-being of the growing animal. The young lamb or foal, for example, can stand on its four legs as soon as it is born ; it lifts its body well above the ground, and quickly begins to run and bound. The shock to the limbs themselves is broken and diminished at this tender age, by the divisions of the supporting long bones, — by the interposition of the cushions of cartilage between the diaphyses and the epiphyses. And the jar that might affect the pulpy and largely developed brain of the im- mature animal is further diffused and intercepted by the epiphysial articular extremities of the bodies of the vertebra3. We thus readily discern a final purpose in the distinct centres of ossification of the vertebral bodies, long bones, and the limbs of mam- mals, which would not apply to the condition of the crawling reptiles. The diminutive brain in these low and slow cold-blooded animals does not demand such protection against concussion ; neither does the mode of locomotion in the quadruped reptiles render such concussion likely; their limbs sprawl outwards, and push along the body, which commonly trails upon the ground; therefore we find no epiphyses with interposed cartilage at the ends of a distinct shaft in the long bones of Saurians and Tortoises. But ivhen the reptile moves by leaps, then the principle of ossifying the long bone by distinct centres again * “ Mais CCS distinctions sont arbitraires, ct pour avoir le veritable nombre dcs os de cba(|ue cspecc, il faut rcinonter jusqu’ aux premiers noyaux osseux tcls qu’ils se montrent dans le Icutus.” (xni. tom. i. p. 120.)