J04 ‘ ' '■ ' I-ECTUKE' V<. ' ' • ■ ■■■ •! ‘ • nerves. The ethmoid forms a slender vertical compressed plate, ex- panded' and bifurcate above, in the Perch ■: it is a broader and larger plate, bent upon*itself, with the concavity upwards, in the Gypri'noid (j%- 35; 18') and Siluroid Fishes, where it ai’tieulates below to the pre-sphenoid',- ■ behind * and above to- the orbito-sphenoids,: and above and before to the froritals and preffontalsj and forming the chief part of the interorbital septum.*' • •■'••• ■ ; ; r '"•The cartilaginous capsules of-the terminal or pituitary expansions of the organ of smell are, proportionally, large in the Ghondroptery- gians andthe Lepidosiren; They form a single tube, with interrupted cartilaginous parietes, like a 'trachea, in several of the Cydostomes; and the interposed membranous slits ai’c present in the Lepidosiren {Jig. 27. 19), whercj as in all the higher hshesy the olfactory capsules 'cease to be confluent, as the ethmoid is, but form a pair. ' Tlx turbinals'{Jig. 30. or bones which are developed for the more immediate support of'each'Olfactory capsule, in osseous Ashes, are generally thin, more-or less' elongated, and turbinated scales, situated at the sides of: the .nasal-,bone and of- the - ascending pro- cesses of the premaxillaries ;' usually free, but in the Gurnards arti- culated'with the-prefix)ntals and nasal, and in the Gock-fish {Argy- ?'e«osMs).suspended above the nasal bone, from the anterior prominence of the frontal spine. Inferior (Haemal) Argues of the Gkanial Vertebra. These, though apparently more numerous than the vertebral centres, * Oken and Bojanus regarded the ethmoid as. the body or centrum of their third (anterior) cranial vertebra ; and M. Agassiz, combating the'vi^rtebral theory of the skull, says—“ Ainsi que serait dans cette hypothese, le sphenoide principal, les grandes ailes du sphenoide, et I’ethmoide, qui forment pourtant le plancher de la cavite c^rebrale ? Des apophyses? Mais, les apophyses ne protegent les centres nerveux que du cbti et d’en haut. Des corps des vertebres ? . Mais ils se sont formes sans le concours de la corde dorsale; ils ne peuveut done pas etre des corps des vertebres.” (Poissons Fossiles, t. i. p; 229.) The ethmoid, liorvever, forms the ’anterior wall, rather than the floor of the cranium ; and since it is related in all Vertebrata to the support and protection of the olfactory organ, it enters into flte category of the ‘ Capsules of the organs of special sense,’ with the petrous and sckmtic bone.s, and hot into that of the neural arches or vertebral coverings of the cerebro-spinal axis. The ai-gumcnt of M. Agassiz would be good, if change of position involved an essential distinction of a bone, i. e. a diflerent homology, and a consequent change of name ; but M. Agassiz finds no difficulty in determining ■the frontal and the parietal bones in all bony fishes, notwithstanding their variety of proportion and position. Therefore, in determining and expressing their special homology, by the arbitrary names borrowed from Anthropotomy, why should not their general homology as spines of the prosenccphalic and mesencephalic vertebrm respectively be recognised ? If M, Aga.ssiz could show modifications of the reinflons of the frontal and parietal bones, so that they thereby ceased to he recogni.Kahle as such, then also their mote' essential .fnd general charactersmight hc’so ohsciiretl as to afford gtoundd for-rejecting their, vertebral homologies. .