119 THE SKULL OF OSSEOUS FISHES. of the ribs, or sternal ribs, &c. The modification of the coracoids, most characteristic of fishes, is the symphysial union of their lower extremities, like the hajmapophyses of the maxillary and mandibular arches, either by ligament, or dentated suture; or, as in Plagiostomes, by cartilaginous confluence. But this mode of closing the inverted arch seems inevitable in a class in which a true steimum ‘ hasmal spine’ is absent; and we shall find the same symphysis of the cora- coids in those fish-like Reptiles, the Enaliosauria, which are now extinct. In the Cod-tribe the pointed upper extremity of the coracoid {figs. 19. and 30. 52), projects behind the scapula and almost touches the supra-scapular bone ; below this part a broad angular plate of the coracoid projects backwards and gives attachment to the radiated appendage of the arch: the rest of the coracoid bends inwards and forwards, gradually decreasing to a point, which is connected by ligament to its feUow, and to the uro-hyal bone. The inner side of the coracoid is excavated, and its anterior margin folded inwards and backwards; it is continued above into the posterior angular process, but in the rest of the coracoid it is simply bent upon the inner con- cavity of the bone, which lodges the origin to the great lateral muscle of the trunk. In most fishes the lower end of the arch is completed, as in the Cod, .by the ligamentous symphysis of the coracoids; but in the Siluri and Platycephali the coracoids expand below, and are firmly joined together by a dentated suture. In all fishes they support and defend the heart, and form the frame, or sill, against which the oper- cular and branchiostegal doors shut in closing the great branchial cavity; they also give attachment to the aponeurotic diaphragm dividing the pericaidial from the abdominal cavity. Like the tympano-mandibular and hyoidean arches the scapular arch supports, in most fishes, a Diverging or radiated Appendage on each side. This appendage consists in Lepidosiren of a single ray: but in Osseous Fishes it is composed usually, first, of two rarely of three bones immediately articulated with the coracoid; next, of a series of from two to six smaller bones; which, lastly, support a series of spines or jointed rays. These rays in the scapular appendage, or ‘ pec- toral fin,’ are a repetition of tlie branchiostegal rays in the byoidean appendage, and of the opercular rays in the tympanic appendage. 01 the special homology of the pectoral fin-rays with the digits of the pector.al extremity in higher animals, there has been no question. Tlie vegetative repetition of digits and joints, and the vegetative sameness of form in those multiplied peripheral parts of the fins of 1 4