2 INTRODUCTORY LECTURE. incumbent on me to labour in the acquisition of that knowledge of the science of Animal Organisation, and of its varied and daily extending applications, which may enable me so to discharge my present duties that the valuable time, which you are not unwilling to spare for attendance on these Lectures, may be not unprofitably bestowed. And, first, permit me to dwell a little on the inestimable privilege which we enjoy, in entering upon our Professional studies by the portal of Anatomy. How vast and diversified a field of knowledge opens out before us as we gaze from that portal! Consider what it is that forms the subject of our essential introductory study; nothing less than the organic mechanism of the last and highest created product Avhich has been introduced into this planet. Contrast this, Avhich both Sage and Poet have called the “ noblest study of mankind,” with the dry and unattractive preliminary exercises of the Lawyer or the Divine. Every new term which the Anatomical student has to commit to memory is associated with a recognisable object, with some part which may be vibrating, contracting, or pulsating, in his OAvn frame. First, we enter upon the study of Human Anatomy that we may know with what we have to deal as Operative Surgeons ; and, as Phy- sicians, may recognise the seat of disease. Then, that w'e may learn, by the structure and connections of the parts of the Human body, their office in the vital economy. We next test the physiological ideas, so acquired, by experiments on the lower animals, AAffiich we are thus led to dissect in order to find the amount of resemblance Avith the Human structure Avhich must guide the operation, influence the judgment as to the result, and indicate the conditions for new expe- riments. We cannot advance far into the loAver region of Anatomy without appreciating the same admirable adjustment of means to ends Avliich pervades the Human frame : thus the field of Physiology expands before us, and Ave are enabled to bear a part with a Ray or a Paley in illustrating the doctrine of final causes, and demonstrating the “ Wisdom of God in the Creation.” In extending our Anatomical comparisons, Ave cannot fiul to be struck Avith the close general resemblance of the structure of the loAver animals Avith that of Man : almost every part of the Human frame has its homologue in some inferior animal; and Ave at length begin to perceive that Man’s organisation is a special modification of a more general type. From analysis, the philosojihic mind is irresistibly led on to comparison and synthetic combination of the multitude of particulars observed. In grasping the abstract idea of tlie general type, avc appreciate the precise nature of the charac-