ELECTRIC ORGANS OF FISHES. 217 powerful shocks were received when one hand grasped the head and the other hand the tail of the Gymnotus, I had painful experience ; especially at the wrists, the elbows and across the back. But our distinguished experimenter showed us that the nearer the hands were together within certain limits, the less powerful was the shock. He demonstrated by the galvanometer that the direction of the electric current was always from the anterior parts of the animal to the posterior parts, and that the person touching the fish with both hands received only the discharge of the parts of the organs included between the points of contact. Needles were converted into mag- nets ; iodine was obtained by polar decomposition of iodide of po- tassium ; and, availing himself of this test. Professor Faraday showed that any given part of the organ is negative to other parts before it, and positive to such as are behind it. Finally, heat was evolved, and the electric spark obtained. Referring to the admirable Me- moir *, in which these and other experiments on the Gymnotus are described, I shall only revert to the relation which exists between the comparative anatomy of the organs of the Torpedo and Gym- notus, and the dilference in the direction of their electric currents, as determined by the physical experiments. The delicate plates sus- taining the terminal meshes of the nerves and vessels are horizontal in the Torpedo ; the course of the electric current is from above downwards. The corresponding plates in the Gymnotus are vertical; the direction of the electric current is from before backwards : i. e. it is vertical to the planes of the plates of the organised voltaic piles in both cases. There is another analogy which the row of compressed cells con- stituting the electric prism of the Torpedo suggests, viz. to the striated fibre of voluntary muscle, or to the row of microscopic discoid cells of which the elementary muscular filament appears to consist. The looped termination of the exciting nerve is common to muscular tissue and that of the electric organ. The electric, like the motory nerves, rise from the anterior myelonal tracts; and, though they have a special lobe at their origin, beyond that origin they have no ganglion. An impression on any part of the body of the Torpedo is carried by the sensory nerves either directly, or through the posterior myelonal tracts, to the brain, excites there the act of volition, which is conveyed along the electric nerves to the organs and produces the shock : in muscular contraction, the impression and Volition take the same course to the muscular fibres. If the electric nerves are divided at their origin from the brain the course of the stimulus is interrupted, LXXXII,