134 LECTURE VI. are no separate homologues in the Sturgeon’s fin of the bones called ulna and radius in Osseous Fishes: the carpal bones {ih. 56) imme- diately articulate with the coracoid, and support about thirty rays {ib. 57), two or three of which seem to have coalesced to form the strong bony spine {ib. 57') on the outer border of the fin. The ventral fins are small and are suspended each by a simple cartilaginous pubis to the abdominal muscles a little in advance of the anus. The osseous scales on the upper surface of the skull are so ar- ranged as, at first sight, to suggest certain analogies with the epi- cranial bones. Thus, the scale marked a {ib. d 3) in Brandt and Katzebui’gh’s figure of the head of the Accipenser Sturio* might be compared with the supra-occipital bone; the pair in advance {ib. d 7), marked e (loc. cit.), with the parietals; and the pair {d 11) marked g (loc. cit.), with the frontals; but then these are sepa- rated by an interfrontal osseous plate, and in Accipenser Scypha by two or three such plates; the supra-occipital plate is divided in the A. brevirostris and in the A. sturio of Pallas f, and other varieties occur which render the attempt to illustrate the homology of the true epicranial bones in Osseous Fishes by these dermal ganoid plates in the Sturgeons difficult and unsatisfactory. The median plates are more obviously and essentially a continuation forwards of the dermal spinous plates {ib. c?s), from the mid-line of the back; and we may see their more veritable repetition amongst the Osseous Fishes in the dermal epicranial spines, for example, of the Angler {Lophius), which support the long fishing filaments upon the head, or in those modified ones forming the sucking disk on the head of the Remora. They are more obviously homologous with the dermal bones forming the helmet of the Armadillo, and bear the same relation in the Sturgeon to the cartilaginous skull as those bones do in the Armadillo to the osseous skull beneath. The lateral series of dermal bony plates {ib. dp) are also con- tinued upon the head, and seem to represent in the Sturgeons the supra-scapular {ib. d 50) and the opercular bones {d 35) in osseous Fishes. Other constant series of cranial scale-bones, in the Sturgeon, circumscribe the orbits below and the temporal spaces above. But before applying the well-contrasted states of the endo- and exo- skeleton of the Sturgeon to the determination of the bones of the skull in the Cod, I may advert to the reversed conditions of the cndo- and exo-skeletons in tlie Lepidosiren, which lends another valuable aid in the solution of this difficult and much discussed subject. The * Mcdizin Zoologic, band. ii. tab. ill. ■)• Fauna Rosso-Asiatica, iii. p 91.