NERVOUS SYSTEM OF PISHES. 187 creasing capacity of the cranium is made by a concomitant develop- ment of the light cellular arachnoid, which has the further advantage of regulating the specific gravity of the head. As the branchial respiration is a peculiarly active and important function in Fishes, and is served by an extraordinary apparatus of bony or gristly arches with their muscles, we may associate therewith the peculiar development and complexity of the medulla oblongata, as the centre of the vagal or respiratory nerves. The Carp and other cyprinoid Fishes, which have not the mechanical modifications for retaining water in contact with the gills, so characteristic of the Apodal, the Lophioid, and Labyrinthibranch fishes, are remarkable, nevertheless, for their tenacity of life out of water; and the peculiarly developed vagal lobes in them may relate to this maintenance of the power of the respiratory organs during a suspension of their natural actions. The extensive gradation of the cerebellum between the extremes of structure presented by the Myxine and the Shark throws, as might be expected, more direct light upon its function. With regard to this, two views have been taken. According to one it is the organ of amativeness; according to the other it is the seat of the muscular sense, or the regulator of voluntary motion. Many expe- riments in which the cerebellum has been mutilated or removed in warm-blooded animals support the idea of its intimate relation with the locomotive powers. But to the conclusions from these ex- periments has been objected the possibility of the convulsive mus- cular phenomena having arisen from the stimulus on the remaining centres, occasioned by the mutilation or destruction of the one in question ; and it may well be doubted whether Nature ever answers so truly when put to the torture, as she does Avhen speaking volun- tarily through her own experiments, if we may so call the ablation and addition of parts which comparative anatomy offers to our con- templation. If, in reference to the sexual hypothesis of the cerebellum, we contrast the Lamprey with tlie Shark, we shall be led, by the much larger proportional size of the generative organs in the lower car- tilaginous Fish, and by the observed fact of the male and female Lampreys entwining or wreathing themselves entirely about each other, mutually aiding in the expulsion of their respective generative products and so absorbed in the passion as to permit themselves to be taken out of the water and replaced there without interruption of the act, to expect a larger cerebellum in the Lamprey than in the Shark. But the reverse of this is the fact: the Lamprey has the smallest, and the vSliark the largest, cerebellum in the class of