224 lecture IX. porting plate gradually undermined by the growth of the new tooth must have given way and been forced upon the subjacent delicate and highly vascular and sensitive matrix of the half-formed tooth. But the superincumbent pressure being exclusively sustained by the border of the alveolus, whence it is transferred to the walls dividing the vaulted cavities containing the germs of the new teeth, the roofs of these cavities yield to the absorbent process consequent on the growth of the new teeth without materially weakening the attach- ment of the old teeth, and without the new teeth being subjected to any pressure until their growth is sufficiently advanced to enable them to bear it with safety ; by this time the sustaining borders of the old alveolus are undermined, and the old worn-down tooth is shed. With regard to the substance of the teeth of fishes, the modifica- tions of dentine, called vaso-dentine, and osteo-dentine*, predominate much more than in the higher Vertebrata; and they thus more closely resemble the bones which support them. There is, however, great di- versity in respect of substance. The teeth of most of the Chsetodonts are flexible, elastic, and composed of a yellowish subtransparent albu- minous tissue; such, likewise, are the labial teeth of the Helostome, the premaxillary and mandibular teeth of the Goniodonts, and of that percoid genus thence called Trichodon. In the Cyclostomes the teeth consist of a denser albuminous substance. The upper pharyngeal molar of the Carp consists of a peculiar brown and semitransparent tissue, hardened by salts of lime and magnesia. The teeth of the Flying-fish (^Exoccetus), and Sucking-fish (^Remora), consist of osteo- dentine. In many fishes, e. g. the Acanthurus (V, pi. 44. Jig. 1.), Sphyraena (V, pi. 53.), and certain Sharks {Lamna, V, pi. 6.), abase, or body of osteodentine is coated by a layer of true dentine, but of un- usual hardness, like enamel: in Prionodont\n^\\w6. tissue predominates. In the Diodon the dental plates consist wholly of hard or unvascular dentine. In Sargus and Batistes the body of the tooth consists of true dentine, and the crown is covered by a thick layer of a denser tissue, developed by a distinct organ, and differing from the ‘ enamel’ of higher animals only in the more complicated and organised mode of deposition of the earthy salts. The ossification of the capsule of the complex matrix of these teeth covers the enamel with a thin coating of ‘ cement.’ In the pharyngeal teeth of the Scarus a fourth substance is added by the ossification of the base of the pulp after its summit and periphery have been converted into hard dentine; and the teeth, thus composed of cement, enamel, dentine, and osteodentine (V, pi. 52.), are the most complex in regard to their substance that have yet been discovered in the animal kingdom. * V. Introduction, p. Ixxii.