RENAL SYSTEM OF FISHES, 283 In most osseous fishes the kidneys are long and narrow, and ex- tend through the whole or a great part of the dorsal region of the abdomen, firmly attached to the vertebral column ; they are usually broadest and thickest anteriorly, where they sometimes present a lobulated surface ; they contract, approximate, and frequently blend together as they extend backwards (prep. 1177. Cyclopterus) •, some- times penetrating the hasmal canal in the tail. In the Gymnotus the kidneys are distinct and thickest at their posterior ends, as they are in the Gurnard {fig. 72. h) and in most Sharks. The kidneys have not a well-defined capsule in osseous fishes, but their ventral sur- face is immediately covered by an aponeurotic membrane, against Avhich the peritoneum, and the air-bladder when present, are applied. I'he renal tissue is soft and spongy, firmest at the fore-part of the gland; usually of a reddish-brown colour; sometimes soaked, as it were, with dark pigment (as in Lepidosiren, xxxm. p. 349.). It is sup- plied by numerous small arteries from the abdominal aorta *, which form Malpighian corpuscles ; but these are fewer in number and less complex than in the true kidneys of higher Vertebrates. The primary branches of the tubuli uriniferi, given ofiF from the long ureter, are extremely numerous; their divisions in the renal sub- stance are comparatively few ; they are in most fishes convoluted and of equal diameter, extending through the whole renal substance, which shows no distinction of cortical and medullary parts, and has no mammilla : they are lined by a ciliated epithelium. Sometimes a single common ureter quits the coalesced hinder ends of the kidneys, as in the Pike, and terminates in a urinary bladder. More frequently the essentially duplex nature of the kidneys is manifested by the emergence of two ureters from the ventral surface of their posterior ends when these have coalesced : in some fishes these unite together after quitting the kidneys, and terminate by a common gradually widening canal in the urinary bladder. Sometimes they enter the urinary bladder separately, as in the Wolf-fish, where they both terminate on its left side, half-an-inch above the cervix: rarely are any smaller accessory ureters seen, as e. g. in the Stickleback, to terminate also, separately, in the bladder. This, in aquatic animals apparently needless, receptacle of a fluid excretion is, nevertheless, rarely absent in osseous fishes; the Pilchard, the Herring, and the Loach are among the few instances where it is not developed. In the Loach a very short, in the Herring a long, common ureter ter- minates behind the anus. In the Gymnotus the common ureter is so wide as to serve as a receptacle, and it is directed forwards to reach * Huntur, vji. t. ii. p. 112.