AIR-BLADDER OF FISHES. 281 however, do not affect its relation of homology with the divided air- bladder of the allied ganoid genus Pohjpterus, any more than witli the divided aii’-bladders of the Cobitis barhatula or Arius gagora, in which the divisions are confined to the anterior part of the abdomen, and inclosed in osseous cups developed from vertebraa answering to the second or third cervicals. Thus the series of transitions traceable in the organs universally acknowledged as the air-bladders of fishes prove those of the Lepido- siren to be the homologous organ ; whilst the development, relative position, and connection of the lungs of the Batrachia equally prove those lungs to be the homologues of the air-bladders of the Lepi- dosiren. Therefore, it follows that the air-bladder of the fish is homologous with the lungs of the Batracliian, and of all other air- breathing Vertebrates ; although the air-bladder of the fish does not, as a general rule, perform the functions of a lung. But the air- bladder in most fishes is analogous to the air-chambei’s of the shell of the polythalamous Cephalopods, and in some fishes it is analogous to the tympanum of the higher Vei’tebrates.* In tracing the development of the windpipe and larynx, from the more lung-like forms of the air-bladder in fishes, through the Peren- nibranchiate Batrachia upwards, we obtain incontrovertible proof that the so-called ‘ ductus pneumaticus ’ in fishes is the homologue of the trachea. It follows, therefore, that the branchial cartilaginous and osseous supports of the gills are not the homologues of the trachea and bronchiae, any more than the gills themselves are the homologues of the lungs. We shall find the branchial arches and gills developed in the larvae of Batrachia, and disappearing as the true trachea and lungs are formed, without being converted into them. The only parts of air-breathing Vertebrates with which the branchiae of fishes are homologous are the persistent or deciduous branchiae of the Batrachia. The relations of the branchial arches and gills of fishes with the trachea and lungs of higher air-breathing Vertebrates are those of analogy merely. The branchial apparatus, in relation to the entire vertebrate scheme or type of organization, is to be regarded as a temporary graft on such type, introduced to serve the purposes of the lowest embryo-like forms, and to give way to another and higher and more persistent form of respiratory organ : in this respect the branchial organization is to the vertebrate series what the pla- centa is to the mammalian individual. * In the Loach {Coh'Uis) the whole alimentary canal is analogous to a lung, in- asmuch as tliis fish swallows air and voids carbonic acid.