228 LECTURE IX. haps, the sole examples of ‘permanent teeth’ to he met with in the whole class. When the teeth are developed in alveolar cavities, they are suc- ceeded by others in the vertical direction (V. pi. AQ.fig. 1.) : these owe the oi'igin of their matrix to the budding out from the capsule of their predecessors of a cmcal process, in which the papillary rudiment of the dentinal pulp is developed according to the laws explained in V (Introduction). But, in the great majority of Fishes, the germs of the new teeth are develojDcd, like those of the old, from the free surface of the buccal membrane throughout the entire period of suc- cession ; a circumstance peculiar to the present class. The Angler, the Pike, and most of our common Fishes, illustrate this mode of dental reproduction: it is very conspicuous in the Cartilaginous Fishes (V. pi. 5, fig. 1.), in which the whole phalanx of their numerous teeth is ever moving slowly forwards in rotatory pro- gress over the alveolar border of the jaw, the teeth being successively cast off as they reach the outer margin, and new teeth rising from the mucous membrane behind the rear rank of the phalanx. This endless succession and decadence of the teeth, together with the vast numbers in which they often coexist in the same Fish, illus- trate the law of Yegetative or Irrelative Eepetition, as it manifests itself on the first introduction of new organs in the Animal King- dom, under which light we must view the above-described organised and calcified preparatory instruments of digestion in the lowest class of the Vertebrate series. Alimentary Canal. The mouth of Fishes is the common entry and vestibule to both the digestive {fig. 61. dton) and the respiratory (ib. t, u) organs ; it is, therefore, of great capacity: and, as the transmission of the food to the stomach, and of the respiratory currents to the gills, is per- formed by similar acts of deglutition, the bony arches which surround the mouth are not only large, but are complicated by a mechanism for regulating the transit of the nutritious and oxygenating media, each to their respective localities. The branchial slits are provided with denticles and sieve-like plates or processes to jirevent the entry of food into the interspaces of the gills, and the branchial out- lets are guarded by valves which reciprocally prevent the regurgita- tion of the respiratory streams back into the mouth. The necessary co-operation of the jaws with the hyoid arch in the rythmical movements of respiration is incompatible with protracted maxillary mastication; and, accordingly, the branchial apparatus renders a compensatory return by giving up, as it were, the last pair of its arches to the completion of the work which the proper or