VASCULAR SYSTEM OP PISHES. 269 body, which divides into the artery for the brain (encephalic), and that for tlie eye (ophthalmic). The pseudobranchia is thus a kind of rete mirabile for both the cerebral and ophthalmic circulation in the Sturgeon* : in osseous fishes it stands in that relation to the eye only, and is most generally associated with the more immediate ophthalmic ‘rete mirabile,’ called ‘choroid gland’ (y?^. 56. o). The pseudo- branchia coexists with the hyoid uniserial gill in most Plagiostomes ; and in those that have the sjiiracula it is developed, as in the Stur- geon, on the anterior wall of each of those temporal outlets from the branchial cavity : its ‘ vena arteriosa’ supplies the eyes and part of the brain ; and it is important, also, in reference to a true and clear idea of the function and homology of the ‘pseudobranchia’ in fishes generally, to bear in mind that it co-exists in the Plagiostomes, Chimseroids, Sturgeons, and some osseous fishes, with the vaso- ganglion supplied by vessels from the anterior branchial veins, which lies between the anterior basi-branchials and the sterno- hyoid muscles.^ Besides the small nasal and orbital arteries, and * See xxr. 1841, pp. 41—67. 75. for a most valuable and exact specification of the structure, relations, and varieties of the Pseudohranchiaj. t This body has already been alluded to in connection with the salivary system (p. 230.). Mr. Simon’s opinion, that it is the ‘thyroid gland’ of Cartilaginous Fishes is more in accordance with its nature as a vaso-ganglion, and its relative position. But since it co-exists in Cartilaginous. Fishes with the actual homologue of the pseudobranchiae of Osseous Fishes, these cannot be, as Mr. Simon contend.s, the thyroid glands of such fishes. That the parts which the accomplished author of the paper cxvi. describes as the thyroid glands in the Exoccctus, Pike, Anableps, Carp, and some species of the Cod tribe, are the same bodies which Miiller had previously described as ‘ pseudobranchire ’ in those fishes, will be manifest by com- paring the descriptions of the two anatomists. “ In the Gadidm the gland is double; one portion lies on each side, not as in the last case [the sublino-ual vaso- ganglion of the Sturgeon is alluded to] at the anterior extremity of the first branchial arch, but near its posterior or vertebral end.” (Simon, Philos. Trans. 1844, p. 300. Compare with this Muller, xxj. 1841, p. 47. tab. iii. fig. 13.) Prof. Miiller’s description of the ‘pseudobvanchise’ of the Carp is as follows: ‘ Die verborgenste Lage hat das Organ bei Cyprinus Curpio und Carassius. Es ist nicht bloss von dem beweglichen dicken Gaumenorgan bedeckt, sondern selbst von knochen verhiillt. Man findet es nach Wegnahme des contractilen Gaumen- organs zwischen dem hintern Ende des queren Gaumen-muskels und den obern Schlundknochen.” (xxi. 1841, p. 47.) Mr. Simon’s account of the thyroid gland in the same species is as follows ; — “ In tlie Carp especially it is at considerable depth, being hidden by the extraor- dinary thickness of the soft palate, and imbedded between the surface of the ptery- goid muscle and the outer extremity of the branchial bone.” (Philos. Trans 184'4 p. 300.) It is obvious that all the parts described as ‘ thyroid glands ’ by Mr. Simon in Osseous Fishe.s, are the pseudobranchiaj; and the author recognises that homo]o<ry m regard to the free gill-like forms of pseudobranchia: described by Broussonet and t>hn^^c\ m Aoanthoptcrrjgii and Flmronectida;. 'I'hat these ‘pseudobranchia:’ receive arterialised blood, and arc tlius essentially distinct from the hyoid or oper cular umsvrial fin in the Sturgeon, Lepidosteus, &c., bad been clearly demonstrated by Prof. Muller (1. c. 1841). There remains, then, to consider the relations of the ‘ pseudobranchia; ’ of Fishes with the thyroid glands of Mammals. These may be cither relations of analogy or of homology. The former would be determined by