274 LECTURE XI. and not in the other family {Pleuronectida:); here we can associate its absence with the peculiar flattened form and grovelling habits of the species. In like manner ive may account for the absence of the air-bladder in the Angler {Loj)hius), which habitually keeps the sea-bottom: but the mechanical explanation of the absence or rudimental condition of the swim-bladder is not so obvious in regard to the Acanthopterous genera Percis, Percophis, Eleginus, Auxis, Trachypterus, and Gymnetrus. A large and often complex air-bladder exists in most of the Siluroid fishes; but the genera Loricaria, Rhinelepis, and Hypostoma are exceptions in that family, having no air-bladder. What is more inexplicable is, that while some species of the same genus, Polynemus and Scomber for example, have a large swim-bladder, others want it, or have it of extremely small size. The variation in respect to the presence or absence of an air- duct (ductus pneumaticus) is expressed in the characters of the orders in the Classification of Fishes, pp. 48—50. The duct, which is shown by its place of communication with the beginning of the oesophagus, and by the rudimental larynx, in Polyptenis and Lepidosiren, to be the homologue of the trachea of air-breathing Vertebrates, is a simple and delicate membranous tube; but it presents considerable variation in its length, diameter, and place of communication -with the ali- mentary tract. In the Herring the ductus pneumaticus is produced from the posterior attenuated end of the cardiac division of the stomach*, and opens into the fusiform air-bladder at the junction of the middle and posterior thirds of that organ. The long, narrow, and flexuous ductus pneumaticus is continued from the fore-part of the posterior division of the air-bladder in the Cyprinoids, and opens into the dorsal part of the oesophagus (fig- 58. su'): the short, straight, and wide ductus pneumaticus, in the Lepidosteus, opens also into the dorsal part of the oesophagus, the orifice being served by a sphincter: in the Erythrinus the air-duct communicates with the side of the oesophagus ; in the Polypterus, with the under or ventral part of the beginning of the oesophagus.f The principal seat of the vascular ramifications in the air-bladder, like that in a true lung, is the mucous lining membrane; but the modes of ramification in the primitive piscine form of the air- breathing organ are as variable as any of its other properties. The arteries of the air-bladder are derived sometimes directly from the • cxiv. ii. pi. viii. fig. 1. f These variations show how futile is the objection drawn from the dorsal com- munication of the swim-bladder in Lepidosteus to the determination of the Lepido- siren to the class of fishes, and of the homology of its lungs with the swim-bladder in that class.