227 DENTAL SYSTEM OF FISHES. It is interesting to observe in tliis class the process arrested at each of the well-marked stages through which the development of a mammalian tooth passes. In all fishes the first step is the simple production of a soft vascular papilla from the free surface of the buccal membrane : in Sharks and Rays these papillae do not proceed to sink into the substance of the gum, but are covered by caps of an opposite free fold of the buccal membrane; these caps do not contract any organic connection with the papilliform matrix, but, as this is converted into dental tissue, the tooth is gradually withdrawn from the extraneous protecting cap, to take its place and assume the erect position on the margin of the jaw (v. pi. 5.^^. 1.) Here, therefore, is represented the first and transitory ‘papillary’ stage of dental de- velopment in mammals; and the simple crescentic cartilaginous maxillary plate, with the open groove behind containing the germinal papillae of the teeth, offers in the Shark a magnified representation of the earliest condition of the jaws and teeth in the human embryo. In many Fishes, e, g., Lophius, Esox, the dental papillte become buried in the membrane from which they rise, and the surface to which their basis is attached becomes the bottom of a closed sac : but this sac does not become inclosed in the substance of the jaw ; so that teeth at different stages of growth are brought away with the thick and soft gum, when it is stripped from the jaw-bone. The final fixation of teeth, so formed, is effected by the development of liga- mentous fibres in the submucous tissue between the jaw and the base of the tooth, which fibres become the medium of connection between those parts, either as elastic ligaments, or by continuous ossification. Here, therefore, is represented the ‘ follicular’ stage of the develop- ment of a mammalian tooth; but the ‘eruptive’ stage takes place without previous inclosure of the follicle and matrix in the substance of the jaw-bone. In Balistes, Scarus, Sphyrcena, the Sparoids, and many other Fishes, the formation of the teeth presents all the usual stages which have been observed to succeed each other in the dentition of the higher vertebrata: the papilla sinks into a follicle, becomes sur- rounded by a capsule, and is then included within a closed alveolus of the growing jaw, where the development of the tooth takes place and is followed by the usual eruptive stages. A distinct enamel-pulp is developed from the inner surface of the capsule in Balistes, Scarus, Sargus, and Chrgsophrys. In all Fishes the teeth are shed and renewed, not once only, as in Mammals, but frequently, during the whole course of their lives. The maxillary dental plates of Lepidosiren, and the rostral teeth of Priolis (if these modified dermal spines may be so called) are, per-