65 VERTEBRAL COLUMN OF FISHES. of iislies contained in the “ Lemons d’Anatomic Comparee,” * counts the anchylosed vertebriB of the caudal fin as one, and so assigns seven- teen vertebrtB to the Sun-fish. I find but sixteen according 22 /ll\ to the vertebral centres, eight abdominal, and eight caudal: but if we count the neural spines, we have then twelve caudal vertebra3; the spines of the last five being driven, as it were, by the extreme contraction of their anchylosed bodies, to rest their bases upon the back part of the seventh or last upright neural spine. In the Conger there are 162 vertebrae, in the Ophidium 204, and in the Gymnotus 236 vei’tebrae; but even this number is surpassed by some of the plagiostomous fishes. Nor are the extremities of the ver- tebral column the only regions where anchylosis of the ver- tebrae takes place. Hunter had preserved this specimen of confluence of the first two vertebrae of the post-abdominal or caudal region in a large flat-fish (probably Rhombus, :Jig. 22.), forming a true sacrum. In the Halibut (JRippo- ^glossus') the parapophyses of the corresponding vertebras, with those of the last abdominal, are similarly united, though the bodies remain distinct. In Loricaria both the upper and lower arches of a considerable part of the caudal region are blended together into an inflexible sacrum; but, as a general rule, there exists no such impediment to the lateral inflections of the tail in the present class. Although the vertebrae maintain a considerable sameness of form in the same fish, they vary much in different species. The bodies are commonly subcylindrical; as deep, but not so broad, as they are long; more or less consti'icted in the middle, in some to such a degree as to present an hour-glass figure. In the Spinachorhinus they are extremely short; in the Fistularia extremely long; in the Tetrodon they are much compressed ; in the Platycephalus they are AncMMed more depressed; in the tail of the Tunny the entire ver- c,-mdiU ver- tebra is cubical, with the ends hollowed as usual, but the tcbrsc, or “ lour other-sides flat, the upper and lower ones being formed, in the connected series, by the neural and haimal arches of the vertebra in advance, flattened down and, as it were, pressed into cavities on the upper and under surfaces, of the centrum of the next vertebra; so that the series is naturally locked together in tlie dried skeleton; and these arches cover not tlie neural and haimal canals of their own, but of the succeeding, centrum. 'Tlie principle of vegetative repetition is manifested, in osseous * Ed. 1836, tom. i. p. 229. VOL. II. Xi-