69 VERTEBRAX COLUSIN OP FISHES. F 3 from tlieir terminal position ; they are almost always bifureated, or dichotomously subdivided, as the effeet of the continued spontaneous fission of their embryonic elements, or of the activity of the vege- tative force of irrelative repetition. This part is accordingly subject to monstrosity by excess, as is manifested by the double and triple tails of Gold-fish in confinement, where nutriment is not expended by the due action of muscular force. The singular sucking-apparatus upon the head of the Remora is an assemblage of peculiarly modified and connected dermal spines. The more common modification is the excessive development of one or more of the dermal spines, to form peculiar weapons of defence. The Chimeras, the Cestracions, and the Piked Dog-fish, show such a stout bony spine, sometimes, as in the last-named shark, sheathed with horn, at the front border of each dorsal fin, which it also serves to strengthen. The Fire-flares (Trygon) and Eagle Rays {Myliobates) have one or more strong, detached, barbed or serrated spines, on the upper part of the tail. Agassiz has pointed out the close resemblance of the microscopic structure of the bone of these spines and the dentine of the teeth of the same kind of fishes : they are both hardened by an outer layer of modified dentine, but as hard as enamel. Many large fossil spines, called in Palaeontology “ Ich- thyodorulites,” have been determined by their form and structure to have belonged to extinct cartilaginous fishes, allied to the above-cited existing genera, of which they are sometimes the sole indications left by the wreck of former worlds. Amongst bony fishes, the Siluroids (Sheat-fish) and Balistes (File-fish) are most remarkable for these dermal weapons. In our rare Balistes capriscus the anterior dorsal is sustained by thi-ee such spines; the first much the strongest, and the second subservient to the use of the first as a weapon, rather than for the support of the fin. The first spine is articulated by a very remarkable joint to the broad interneural osseous plate : its base is expanded and perforated, and a bony bolt passes freely through the ring. When this spine is raised, a depression at the back part of its base receives a corresponding projection from the contiguous base of the second ray, which fixes it like tlie hammer of the gun-lock at full-cock, and it cannot be forced down till the small spine has been depressed, as by pulling tlie trigger : it is tlien re- ceived into a groove on the supporting plate, and oifers no impedi- ment to the progress of the fish through the water. TIic name of the genus {Batistes') and the common Italian name of the species in question (Pesce balestra) refer to this structure : the spine of the ' Balistes is also roughened with ganoid or enamel grains like a file, whence our English name for it, ‘ File-fish.’ The margins of the ana-