10 INTRODUCTORY LECTURE. Still closer becomes the link between the parent and offspring in the Mammalian class, hj the substitution, for the exclusion of a pas- sive irresponsive ovum, of the birth of a living young, making instinctive irresistible appeal, as soon as born, to maternal sympathy ; deriving nutriment immediately from the parent’s body, and both giving and receiving pleasure by that act. These beautiful foreshadowings of higher attributes are, however, transitory in the brute creation, and the relations cease, as soon as the young quadruped can provide for itself. Preservation of off- spring has been superinduced on self-preservation, but there is as yet no self-improvement: this is the peculiar attribute of mankind. The human species is characterised by the prolonged dependence of a slowly maturing offspring on parental cares and affections, in which are laid the foundations of the social system, and time given for in- stilling those principles on which Man’s best wisdom and truest hap- piness are based, and by which he is prepared for another and a higher sphere of existence. In this destination alone may we dis- cern an adequate end and purpose in the great organic scheme deve- loped upon our planet. In ascending to Man, we trace a very extensive and varied, but progressive course of development, through the great Vertebrated Series, which commences at a very low point. It might, perhaps, be imagined that the lowest Vertebrated form began where the highest Iiivertebrated form ended, and made a direct step in advance in the scale of Animal Organisation. Such, indeed, ought necessarily to follow on the hypothesis of the development of species by progressive transmutation, and of the arrangement of animal life in a single and uninterrupted chain of being. But truer views of the nature and direction of Zoological affinities, and a deeper insight into the laws of Development and of Unity of Organisation in the Animal Kingdom, concur to disprove those once favourite and I’ecently-revived hypotheses. "VVe have seen that the Invertebrata resemble each other only at the earliest and most tran- sitory periods of their development, diverging thence, in sjoecial directions, to the manifestation of very distinct types of animal struc- ture. So likewise we must look to the very beginning of the de- velopment of the Vertebrate animal before we shall discover that amount of concordance which will justify us in predicating “Unity of Organisation” between it and any of the Invcrtebrated forms. And when, with infinite care and minutest scrutiny, availing our- selves of all the aids and appliances of optical art, we have arrived at clear and satisfactory demonstration of tlie greatest amount of re- semblance, in constitution and properties, between the Vertebrate