DEVELOPMENT OF lOSIIES. 293 1 cxxxiv. t cxxi. p. G8. ‘ exclusion.’ When the membranes or appendages of the intra-ute- riue embryo contract no adhesion witli the parietes of the uterus, the fish is said to be ‘ ovo-viviparous: ’ when such adhesion by inter- lacement of vascular surfaces takes place, the species is said to be ‘ viviparous.’ The period of foetation passed within the body of the parent is called ‘gestation:’ that which takes place in natural ca- vities on the exterior of the body of the parent, or in nests artificially prejjared, is called ‘incubation;’ but these are accidents to foetation, which may go on, as it does in most osseous fishes, independently of either kind of protection. Semination. — Tlie progress of the testis to maturity, Avhen it attains in all osseous fishes a larger proportional bulk than in any other vertebrate animals, commences by the appearance in its tissue of extremely delicate, closed cells, ‘ the sperm-sacs.’ In these the spermatozoa are developed. * They are discharged, as we have seen, in the lowest organised fishes, by a general rupture of the sacs into the abdomen, and are excluded by the peritoneal canals. In the growing milt of osseous fishes the sperm-sacs also yield to the pressure of their contents, but partially coalesce and form tracts or canals, frequently reticulate in their disposition, as in the Shad, and which ultimately discharge their contents into the efferent pro- longation of the general capsule of the gland. The spermatozoa are, at first, mere nucleated cells ; they acquire in the Loach a pyriform figure, with a minute knob at the apex, from which the filamentary vibratile tail is continued 76. a). Professor Wag- ner estimates the length of the pyriform body at ^-^th of a line, and that of the tail at ^th of a line.f Pre- vost and Dumas, and Siebold have described the vi- bratile filamentary appendage in the spermatozoa of other, osseous fishes. In the Cyclostomes the body of the spermatozoa is cylindrical; in Sharks it is long and spirally twisted ; in Rays they are developed in bundles (/<7. 76- d), which are arranged in a radiated disposition in the sperm-sac before its rupture. Dr. DavyJ observed many of the spermatozoa grouped together in the vas deferens of the Tliornback. The abundance of these locomotive ciliated cells, and of the minuter granular matter in the fluid in which they float, give to the secretion of the testis or soft roe an opaque milk-white colour. Germination. — 'J’he ova are developed in the ‘ stroma ovarii, almost simultaneously in Dermopteri and osseous fishes, more suc- a. Spermatoxoon of Loach rxxxviii.