194 LECTURE Vni. dorsal roots may be traced receding from tlie ventral ones, as tliey penetrate the medullary substance. The hinder roots in the Blenny join the facial and glosso-pharyngeal. Of the five roots of the tri- geminal in the Stui-geon, the first, second, and fourth form a ganglion Gasserianum. In most Osseous Fishes the first branch is sent back- wai’ds, to form, in conjunction with a branch of the nervus vagus, the so-called ‘ nervus lateralis,’ which escapes by a foramen in the parietal hone; the rest of the fifth emerges from the skull by a hole (Carp), or a notch (Cod), of the alisphenoid. The lateral nerve in the Cod receives only a slender filament of the vagus : it sends off a branch which runs along the sides of the interneural spines (yjig. 56. l.\ receiving branches from all the spinal nerves: it then curves down along the scapular arch, gives branches to the pectoral and ventral fins, supplies the great lateral muscular masses and the mucous canal, and sends a nerve along the interhaemal spines, which communicates with filaments from the corresponding spinal nerves: both interneural and interhfemal branches terminate in the spinal plexus supplying the caudal fin: thus all the locomotive members are associated in action by means of the nervi laterales.* The mandibular division of the fifth (r. ma7idibularis, seu maxillcB inferioris\ consists chiefly of motory filaments which supply the muscles of the hyoid and mandi- bular arches, and send the ‘ ramus opercularis seu facialis,' to those of the gill-cover : the sensory filaments supply the teguments of the sides of the head and under jaw, enter the dental canal, supply the teeth, and, in the Cod, the symphysial tentacle. The maxillary division (r. i7iax- illaris) bifurcates behind the orbit, one branch passes outwards to supply the suborhital mucous canals and integuments on the sides of the head ; the other, after sending a branch obliquely outwards, curves forwards along the floor of the oi'bit, gives off a palatine nerve (r. pterygo-palatinus), and supplies the integuments, mucous tubes, and teeth of the upper jaw : the supra-orbital division gives off the two ciliary nerves, one of which joins the ciliary branch of the third : it then supplies the olfactory sacs, and the integuments of the upper and fore part of the head. In the Skate the large sensory branches of the fifth, sent to the integuments and to the singularly developed mucous canals, have ganglionic enlargements near their origins where they leave the main trunk. The first electric nerve is given off by the non-ganglionic part of the fifth in the Torpedo (fig. 45. 5), and many of the terminal filaments of the tegumentary branches of the fifth swell into peculiar See the beautiful figure given by Mr. Swan of this nerve in liv. pi. vii.