140 LECTURE VI. serial homology with the epi-tympanic portion of the mandibular areh, and with the palatine portion of the maxillary arch. The oper- cular bones are the diverging appendages of the tympano-mandibular arch, and correspond, in serial homology, with the branchiostegal ajjpendages of the hyoid and the pectoral appendages of the scapular arches, and have the same title to be regarded as cephalic fins, and as parts of the normal system of the vertebrate endo-skeleton ; but neither opercular bones nor branchiostegal rays are retained in the skeletons of higher Vertebrata. All diverging appendages of ver- tebral segments make their first appearance in the vertebrate series as ‘rays and the opercular bones are actually represented by car- tilaginous rays, retaining their primitive form in the Plagiostomes. In the Conger the sub-opercular still presents the form of a long and slender fin-ray. The opercular and sub-opercular may, in ordinary Osseous Fishes, frequently coalesce, like the supra-scapular, with their representative scales of the dermal system; but they are essentially something more than peculiarly developed representatives of those scales. M. Agassiz, indeed, excepts the pre-opercular bone from the category of “ pieces cutanees,” believing it to be the homologue of the styloid process of the temporal bone in Anthropotomy, or the ‘ stylo-hyal’ of Ver- tebrate Anatomy, as the piece, viz. which completes the hyoid arch above. “ C’est en effet,” he says, “ cet os a la face interne duquel I’os hyoide des poissons est suspendu, qui s’articule en haut avec le mastoidien et tres souvent meme sur I’ecaille du temporal.” So far as my observation has gone, it is a rare exception to find the hyoid arch suspended to the pre-operculum; the rule in Osseous Fishes is to find the upper styliform piece of the hyoid arch attached to the epi-tympanic {mastoidien of Agassiz), close to its junction with the meso-tympanic bone. It is equally the rule to find the pre- opercular articulated with the epi-, meso-, and hypo-tympanics; and it is an exception, when it rises so high as to be connected with the mastoid {ecaille du temporal of Agassiz). If the stylo-hyal be not the upper piece of the hyoid ai’ch displaced, and if the upper piece connecting that arch with the mastoid is to be sought for in Osseous Fishes, I should rather view it in the posterior half of the epi- tympanic, which is usually bifurcate below and very commonly also above, when the posterior upper fork articulates with the mastoid, and the posterior lower fork with the hyoid arch. The normal position, form, and connections of the pre-operculum clearly bespeak it to be the first or proximal segment of the radiated appendage of the tympano-mandibular arcli : the opercular, sub- opercular, and inter-opercular bones form the distal segment of tlie