130 LECTURE VI. LECTURE VI. DERMAL BONES AND TELEOLOGY OF THE SKELETON OF FISHES. The Sturgeon is one of the transitional steps from the Cartilaginous to the Osseous Fishes; hut as its skeleton more especially elucidates those bones of the Osseous Fishes which have been superadded to the proper cranial and other bones of the endo-skeleton to form the dermal system or exo-skeleton, I have deferred a notice of it to this place. All the parts of the skull of the Sturgeon which belong to the endo- skeleton are, with the exception of the appended arches, one con- tinuous mass of cartilage, which is defended by a crust of shagreened, ganoid bones of the dermal system. It seems, as Agassiz well says, as if the space between the outer bony crust and the cerebral mem- branes within had formed a mould into which the liquid gristle had been thrown at a single jet, and there hai’dened. There is no membranous fontanelle in this cartilaginous cranium. The base of the skull shows the embryonic character of the prolongation of the pointed end of the ‘ chorda dorsalis’ as far forwards as the pituitary depression, which is persistent in the Stui'geons. The occipito- sphenoidal cartilaginous plate is developed around the ‘ chorda,’ and extends upon the base and sides of the skull, whence it is continued backwards, without an intervening joint, into the cartilage of the co- alesced anterior vertebra3 of the trunk. The upper surface of the cartilaginous skull is gently convex; it extends outwards at its middle part between the large orbital and branchial cavities, and to the under part of this prominence the tympanic pedicle is articu- lated. The cartilaginous cranial mass contracts in front of the orbits, is deeply excavated on each side for the nasal cavities, and thence is continued forwards into a rostral process, which gradually tapers to a more or less obtuse point. A thin continuous crust of bone covers the lower surface of the occipito-sphenoidal cartilage, except at the middle line, beneath the cranial end of the chorda, where we saw the cartilage arrested in the Cestracion; this crust extends backwards into the cervical region. The pituitary sella pierces the basal cartilage, but not the subjacent osseous crust. This crust seems analogous to the basi-sphenoid iilate in the Lcindosiren ; but its extension upon the neck, the absence of the articular concavity, and the persistence of the