152 LECTURE VI. admission and appreciation of these pre-ordained adaptations to special exigencies in the skeleton of Fishes, the superior strength and complex develojiment of the tympanic pedicle and its appendages would be inexplicable and unintelligible in this lowest and first-born class of Vertebrate animals. In contrasting the skeletons of the Fish and Mammal, with refer- ence to hypothetical secondary origins of organic species; such, for example, as that of transmutation and progressive ascent of specific forms ; the vast disparity of the hyoidean arch, in point of size, com- plexity, and strength, both intrinsic, and as due to its connections, must not be overlooked. Its small size, simple structure, and loose suspension in the flesh, have led to its being reckoned in Anthro- potomy as a single bone; and it is rarely preserved in the artificial skeletons of man or beast: whilst if absolute and relative magnitude, complexity of structure, and importance of function, are tests of the grade of organisation of a part, the progress of development must be held to have been reversed in respect of the hyoid arch; which, with its appendages, offers the highest grade in Fish and the lowest in Man. And why this great difference — this striking exception to the general condition of the ichthyic organisation? It is explicable only on teleological principles. It is true the Fish tastes not with its tongue, neither does it speak : the sole function of the human tongue- bone, which is performed by that of the fish, is that which is in subser- viency to deglutition. But this function is not in relation to food alone; all the mechanical part of breathing in the fish is a modified act of swallowing. The hyoid arch is the chief point of suspension of the visceral arches which support the gills; and the branchiostegal membi-anes, stretched out upon the diverging rays of the hyoid arch, regulate the course and exit of the I'esjiiratory currents : thus the mechanical functions of the thorax of the air-breathing classes are transferred to the hyoid arch and its appendages in Fishes. By the retraction of the hyoid arch the opercular doors are forced open, and the branchial cavity is widened ; whilst all entry from be- hind is prevented by the branchiostegal membranes, which close the jjosterior branchial slits : the water, therefore, enters by the gaiiing mouth, and rushes through the sieve-like interspaces of the branchial arches into the branchial cavity: the mouth then shuts, the opercular doors press upon the branchial and hyoid arches, wliich again advance forwards, and the branchiostegal membranes being withdraAvn, the currents rush out at the open posterior branchial orifices. These functions are the true condition of the high development of the os hyoides in fishes. I have noticed the great development, the persistence, and ossifi-