234 LECTURE IX. Stomach and pancreas ; Polyp terns. Stomach and pancreas; Mormyrus. sac and the short pyloric portion is continued from its right side, as in the Perch, the Scorpoena, the Gurnards, the Bull-heads, the Smelts, the Angler, the Pike, the Lucio-perca, the Sword-fish, the Silurus, the Herring, and Pilchard, the Conger, the Murjsna, and the Polyp- terus {fig. 62). A transitional form, in which the pyloric end is bent so abruptly upon the cardiac as to make the ctecal character of the latter doubtful, is presented by the short and capacious stomach of the Bur- bot, the Blenny, and the Gymnotus. In the Mor- myrus the stomach presents the rare form of a globular sae (fig. 63. e). Where the ciecal cha- racter is well marked the length of the blind end of the cardia varies consider- ably ; in the Polypterus, Conger, and Swordfish it forms almost the whole of the elongated stomach, the short pyloric portion being continued from near its commencement; in the equally elongated stomach of the Pike, the pyloric portion is conti- nued from the cardiac sac at a little distance from its blind end ; the Herring, Gurnard, and Scorpoena show an intermediate position of the pyloric portion, and this is usually attended with a shorter and wider form of the cardiae ctecum. The pyloric portion is usually slender and conical; but it dilates into a wide sac in Sargus and Lophius; and forms a small oval pouch in Trachypterus. In certain fishes the stomach deviates from the typical forms either into the extreme of simplicity or the converse, without, however, attaining in any species that degree of complexity which we shall find in the higher organised Vertebrata. A proper gastric compartment of the alimentary canal cannot be said to exist in the Lancelet; the long ciecum (fig. 46. hd, 1) continued from it just beyond the cardia appears to be a simple form of liver. In the higher Dermopteri, as the Sand-prides, the Myxines, and the Lampreys, as also in Cobitis and Lepidosiren, the stomach is continued straight from the msophagus to the intes- tine. I have found the capacious cardiac division of the stomach of the Lophius partially divided into two sacs; the unusually wide and short pyloric portion forming a third sac: there may also be ob- served a few obtuse processes from the inner side of the cardia in this fish. In the Gillaroo Trout the ascending or pyloric half of the bent or siphonal stomach has its muscular parietes unusually thickened, by which it is enabled to bruise the shells of the small fiuviatile testa- ccans that abound in the streams in which this variety of trout is