68 LECTURE m. anal fins, depend on the development and grouping of the accessary and intercalary spines: the true vertebral, neural, and hasmal spines give scarcely more indication of the nature or existence of those fins, than the neural spines in the Porpoise or Fin-whales do of their not less essentially though more histologically dermal dorsal fin ; but the development of the dermo-skeleton, in the fish’s fin, and its inter- calation with the spines of the endo-skeleton, and consequently its retention in our prepared skeletons, lead me to notice it in connection with the vertebral column, as I shall subsequently, for similar reasons, have to describe parts of the dermo-skeleton which are intercalated with, or appended to, the vertebras and bony arches of the head. In the Dermopteri (Lampreys, Lancelet), the dorsal, anal and caudal fins are simply cutaneous folds, with scarcely distinguishable soft fibres for rays, and they are continuous, as in the embryos of higher fish. In the Gymnotus, a very long but shallow anal is continued into the caudal fin ; but, as the name of this fish implies*, there is no dorsal fin. In many, both cartilaginous and osseous fishes, a single group of dermal spines supports a single dorsal fin, as in the Sturgeon, the Grey Shark {Heptanchus'), and the Shad ; in others, as the Dog- fish ( Sjnnax), and the Mullet, there are two groups of dermo-neural spines and two dorsal fins; in the Cod and its congeners there are three dorsals (Jig. 19. d) ; in the Polypterus there are, as its name implies, numerous (as many as sixteen) dorsal fins; and many ac- cessary vertical finlets, both dorsal and anal, may be seen in the Caranx, or Mailed Mackerel. Cuvier called those bony fishes “ Malacopterygian,” whose verti- cal fins were supported by soft, jointed, and branched dermal spines, and he called those “ Acanthopterygian,” which had the fin-rays or some of the anterior ones in the form of simple, unjointed, and un- branched bony spines : but we have seen that these variable pai’ts of the dermo-skeleton form unsafe and artificial grounds for the larger groups of the class. Very rarely do the interneural and dermal spines coincide in number with the neural spines : they are often more numerous, as in Acanthurus and Pleuronectes ; more frequently less numerous, as in the Lepidosteus or Trachinus. The Lophius has only three long de- tached dermal rays, projecting from above the abdominal region of the spine, and two or three above the cranial vertebra3; the base of these dermal spines expands, bifurcates, and the extremities eurve inwards, to be inserted into lateral depressions, or a transverse per- foration, of the summit of the interneural spine, represented in Lophius by a small semi-osseous disc. Those dermal spines that sustain the caudal fin offer the lowest condition, as might be expected * Gr. -yvpLVos, naked ; votos, back.