188 LECTURE VIII. Fishes. If, on the other hand, we compare the Cyclostome and Plagiostome Cartilaginous Fishes, in reference to their modes and powers of locomotion, we shall find a contrast which directly accords with that in their cerebellar development. The Myxine commonly passes its life as the internal parasite of some higher organised fish: the Lamprey adheres by its suctorial mouth to a stone, and seldom moves far from its place: neither fish possesses pectoral or ventral fins. The Shark, on the contrary, unaided by an air-bladder, by vigorous muscular exertion of well-developed pectoral and caudal fins, sustains itself at the surface of the sea, soars, as it were, in the upper regions of its atmosphere, is proverbial for the rapidity of its course, and subsists, like the Eagle, by pursuing and devouring a living prey : it is the fish in which the instruments of voluntary motion are best developed, and in ivhich the cerebellum presents its largest size and most complex structure. And this structure cannot be the mere concomitant of a general advance of the organisation to a higher type, for the sluggish Rays, that grovel at the bottom, though they copulate, and have in most other respects the same grade and type of structure as the more active Squaloid Plagiostomes, yet have a much smaller cerebellum, with a mere crucial indentation instead of transverse laminae. A more decisive instance of the relation of the cerebellum to the power of locomotion is given by the Lepidosiren, in which, with a more marked general advance of organisation than in the Ray or Shark, the cerebellum has not risen above the simple commissural condition which it presents in the Lamprey; the generative system, iiowever, of the Lepidosiren is as complex as in the Plagiostomes, and is more extensive : but the fins are reduced to mere filaments, and the fish is known to pass half the year in a state of torpid inactivity. In the heavy-laden ganoid fishes the cerebellum is smaller than in the ordinary osseous fishes: the imbricated armour of dense enamelled bony scales must limit the lateral inflections of the tail ; so we find in the Polypterus the cerebellum hardly more developed than in the Lepidosiren, whilst in the somewhat more active and predacious Lepidosteus it is the smallest of all the segments of the brain. In the grovelling Sturgeons the cerebellum offers an intermediate grade of development between those that characterise the above-cited Ganoids. Finally, amongst the normal Osseous Fishes, the largest and highest organised cerebellum has been found in the Tunny, whose muscular system approaches, in some of its physical characters, most nearly to that of the warm- blooded classes. If we could enter the sensorium of the fish, and experience the kind of sensations and ideas derived from the inlet of their peculiarly