262 LECTURE X. are joined together nearly to their apices, the musculo-membranous medium of union extends from pair to pair throughout the entire gill, forming a true ‘ septum branchiale,’ and presenting a beautiful transition to the more complete septum which divides the respiratory vascular surfaces in the Plagiostomes. In some osseous fishes certain of the branchial arches support only one series of processes; such are called ‘ uniserial,’ or ‘ half ’ gills; but, as a general rule, they support ‘ biserial,’ or ‘ whole ’ gills. Most of the Labroids, the genera Coitus, Scorpcena, Sebastes, Apistes, Zeus, Antennarius, Polypterus, Gobiesox, Lepadogaster, the Cyclopterus liparis have three biserial gills and one uniserial gill; the genera Lo- pliius, Batrachus, Diodon, Tetrodon, Monopterus, Cotylis, have three biserial gills ; Malthcea and Lepidosiren have two biserial gills and one uniserial gill; the Cuchia (^Amphipnous^ has only two gills. The above enumeration refers only to the branchial organs of one side—they are symmetrical in all fishes, and the uniserial opercular gill is not counted, as not being attached to a proper branchial arch. The processes which radiate from the convexity of the branchial arches are bony in some fishes (e. g. Salmo, Alosa), gristly in most {Perea, Coitus, Trigla, &c.). They break up, in the Sturgeon, into delicate branched fringes, along their outer or free margin. Small ‘ interbranchial’ muscles extend, through the uniting septum, between the bases of the processes, for effecting slight reciprocal movements.* The mucous membrane supported by the processes is puckered up into minute transverse folds, crossing their flat sides and producing an enormous extent of surface for the branchial capillaries.f The concave borders of the branchial arches are usually beset by defensive processes, fringes, or tubercles, and these sometimes sup- porting small teeth which aid in deglutition; but the chief office of these appendages, which project inwards towards the mouth, is to prevent the passage of any solid, nutrimental, or other particles taken into the mouth from entering the interspaces of the gills, and irrita- ting their delicate texture. In the edentulous Sturgeon and Paddle- fish each arch supports a close-set series of such retroverted slender tapering filaments {fig. 61. t), which are longer than the opposite branchial processes (ib. u) : they are developed even from the fifth or pharyngeal areh, which has no gill. Similar fringes of extreme delicacy defend the branchial slit in the Mullet (prep. 1034.). Fre- quently such a fringe is developed only from the first branchial arch (Mackerel and Coc^ fig. 69.), the rest supporting dentated tubercles, * CXII. CXIII. f See Prep. 10S8. (Conger), and its description (xx. 1834, p. S3.). Dr. Ilyrtl counted 1000 transverse folds on a single process or tooth of the pectinate gill of the Salmon, and from 1400 to 1600 in a similar process in the Sterlet.