DEVELOl’MENT OF FISUES. 299 joined by the precaval vein (e), becomes first a pulsating tube, and afterwards, by extension, constrictions, and intervening dilatations, an auricle, a ventricle (A), and a bulbus arteriosus; from which the hyoid vascular arch («), succeeded by the branchial vascular arches, pass upwai’ds to communicate with, and impart new vigour to the flow of blood in, the primitive longitudinal dorsal vessel. The ‘ lamime ventrales,’ continued down the sides of the head, form vertical folds or arches, the interspaces of which are converted into clefts communicating with the commencement of the alimentary canal. The first of these arches is the largest, and from its blas- tema the mandibular and hyoidean arches, with their appendages, are developed; the five succeeding arches are the true branchial ones. The metamorphoses of the corresponding vascular arches, and the development of the gills, have been already explained, (p. 265.). The jugular (b) and cardinal (m) veins unite to form the precaval (e), which joins the hepatic and vitelline veins in a common trunk, or sinus, opening into the auricle. The first three successive enlargements at the fore part of the neural axis are connected respectively with the olfactory, optic, and acoustic nerves; the first (p) becomes, then, divided into prosen- cephalon and rhinencephalon; the second (o) rapidly gains superior bulk in connection with the large and early-developed eyes ; and the pineal and pituitary appendages appear. The cerebellum is the last part which is formed, upon the epencephalon (a). In the mean while the liver (/) has been developed from the back part of the intestinal neck of the vitellicle; the pancreas being a later pullulation of casca from the intestine itself. The kidneys (y?) and generative glands (o) are formed out of blastema beneath the primitive vascular sinus; but their ducts are ceecal developments from the pos- terior part of the intestine : this latter stage of development is never attained, as regards the generative organs, in the Dermopteri. Rathke* detected in the embryo Blenny, what Carus afterwards found in the human foetus, germinal vesicles in the nascent ovarium prior to birth, — two generations successively included in the parent. The ureter {q) always makes its appearance very early before the embryo quits the ovum; it communicates with the extremities of the transverse parallel tubuli uriniferi formed by confluence of primitive cells in the renal blastema. The cardinal veins traverse or groove the kidneys, as they do the Wolffian bodies in the embxyos of higlier vertebrata; and this primitive relation of the vascular to the renal system is not changed in fishes by the substitution of true kidneys for the primordial renal organs.t * cxxvin. f Von Baer appears to have first appreciated this interesting lioinology. “ Alles