98 LECTURE V. has undergone more modification than any of the preceding hones in connection with the general distortion and loss of symmetry of the head : in the Ilolihut the right posterior angle is truncated, and the rest of that side scooped out, as it were, to form the large orhit of the right side : the left side of the hone retains its normal form : a median crest, a continuation of that upon the supra-occipital, divides the two sides. The frontal is developed in and from the perichon- drium and the membrane closing the upper fontanelle in the primitive cartilaginous cranium. The post-f7'ontals (parapophyses* of the frontal vertebra. Jigs. 30.33.12,12) obviously belong to the same category of vertebral pieces as the mastoids, whose prominent crest they partly underlie and complete, lending their aid in the formation of the single (e. g. Cod, Salmon), or double (e. g. Pike) articular cavities for the tym- panic pedicle: like the mastoids they are ossified in and from the primitive cranial cartilage; and their inner surface is expanded, but this less frequently enters into the formation of the cranial cavity: they form the posterior boundary of the orbit; are articulated below to the orbito-sphenoid and ali-sphenoid, above to the frontal, and by their posterior and upper sui’faces to the mastoid. The area included by the prosencephalic cincture is widely open anteriorly, correspond- ing with the great anterior membranous fontanelle in the Sharks, but this relates more essentially to the fact of the true cranial or neural canal not being terminated by the frontal vertebra. The circle of bonesf which completes the axis of the skull an- teriorly, and protects the olfactory chords or ganglions, consists of the ‘ vomer ’ below, the ‘ pre-frontals ’ laterally, and the ‘ nasal ’ above 34.). The vomer (centrum of nasal vertebra, figs. 30. and 34. 13) is thick and ex- panded anteriorly, slender, and terminating in a point posteriorly, where it is wedged into the under part of the pre-sphenoid ; its antero-lateral angles are articulated to the pre-frontals; its upper surface supports the Dl.sarticulate<l neural arch of nasal nasal bone, SOmetimCS immediately, some- vertebra: viewed Irom behind. • i i ioadus Morrhua.) timcs by an intervening ethmoidal cartilage. * The position of the transverse processes [pnr-occipitals, mastoids, and post- frontals] of the foregoing cranial vertebra*, would seem to indicate them to be upper ones (diapophyses) ratlicr than lower ones (parapophj'.ses) ; but 1 know not any example of diapojihyses developed as independent, autogenous, vertebral elements ; and we see the parapophyses of the trunk gradually ascending in position, as they advance towards the head, in fishes. t T'he “ vertebra olfactoria ” of IJojanus, who, however, regards the spine as the “ lamina media aL'thmoidei.”