127 THE SKULL OP OSSEOUS PISHES. fishes in the geological formations anterior to the chalk are abdominal, that is, have the ventral fins near the posterior end of the abdomen* ive may conclude that the supporting bones are, essentially, the hae- mapophyses of the last rib-bearing (or pelvic) abdominal vertebra; and that the rays are the diverging appendage, but are attached, like the branchiostegal rays of the hyoidean (parietal hmmal) arch, Avithout the intervention of fewer short and broad bones, homo- logous with femoral, tibial, tarsal bones, &c. The hsemapophysial portion (pubis) of the pelvic arch is never joined to the pleu- rapophysial portion (iHum) of the same arch in fishes; but is suspended more or less freely to other parts, always projecting from the under or ventral part of the body, but subject to great diversity of position in relation to the two extremes of the abdomen. On these differences Linnmus based his primary classification of fishes : he united together, for example, those fishes which have the pelvic or ventral fins near the anus, to form the order called Pisces Abdo- minales;'' those with the ventral fins beneath the pectorals, into an order called “ Pisces Thor acidand those with the ventrals in ad- vance of the pectorals, into an order called Pisces Jugulares p lastly, those fishes in Avhich the ventral fins are absent formed the order called “Pisces Apodes.” And by this name it will be ob- served that Linnams recognised the special homology of the radiated appendages of the pelvic arch of fishes with the hinder or lower extremities of the higher classes of animals. In the Angler {Lophius piscatorius') each pelvic bone is attached to the under and neai- the fore part of the long coracoid, expands at the opposite end, and bends inwards to meet its fellow at a kind of sym- physis pubis ; the fin, supported by six rays with expanded imbricated bases, diverges from the angle ; and the suspending branch above this seems to represent an iliac bone. The pubic bones are detached from the coracoid arch in Abdominal Fishes; the Thoracic character de- pends upon the peculiar length of those bones, which carries back the ventral fins to beneath the pectorals. As the ventral fins are always the last to be developed in the embryo abdominal, thoracic, and jugular fishes, so the apodals may be regarded as analogous to permanent em- bryo forms of these fishes, in which development has been arrested be- fore arriving at the abdominal stage, and growth has proceeded, in most cases, to excess in the linear direction ; as is exemplified in the Eel tribe, where vegetative repetition of a vast number of incomplete vertebrae has taken the place of the perfection of part of a fewer number of vertebrae. * Ag.'issiz, Mist, dcs Poissons, t. i. p. 10.5.