THE SKULL OF OSSEOUS FISHES. 99 II 2 The palatine bones abut against the expanded antei’ior part of the vomer, the under side of which commonly supports teeth. The left ala of the anterior end of the vomer is chiefly developed in the Plolibut and other flat fishes. In the Lepidosteus, the vomer is divided into two by a median cleft. Although its posterior end joins obliquely to the under part of the pre-sphenoid, it is not, therefore, less a continuation of the basi-cranial series than is the post-sphenoid, which joins in a similar manner with the basi-occi- pital.* In the Lepidosiren, we have seen the basi-spbenoid confluent with the basi-occipital; in the Polypterus it is confluent with the vomer. The prefrontals (neurapophyses of the nasal vertebra, ib. 14) defend and support the olfactory prolongations of the cerebral axis, give passage to these so-called ‘ olfactory nerves,’ bound the orbits anteriorly, form the surface of attachment or suspension for the palatine bones, and through these for the palato-maxillary arch : they rest below upon the pre-sphenoid and vomerj support above the fore part of the frontal and the back part of the nasal bones, and give attachment to the large antorbital or lachrymal scale-bone, when this exists : they ai’e always ossified in and from pre-existing cranial cartilage. Such are the essential characters of the bones which Cuvier has called ‘ frontaux ant&ieures ’f in Fishes, and to which I shall apj)ly the name of ‘ prefrontal ’ in all classes of Vertebrate animals. In the Cyprinoids, and most Halecoids, the prefrontals form part of an interorbital septum. When anchylosis begins to prevail in the cra- nial bones of Fishes, the prefrontals manifest their essential relation- ship to the vomerine and nasal bones by becomingr confluent witli them: thus we recognise the prefrontals in the confluent parts of the nasal vertebra of the Conger, by the external groove eondueting the olfactory nerves to the nasal capsules, and by the inferior process • Straus, however, argues it to be an appendage from that mode of union (xxxvi. t. i. p. 333.). f “ Deux frontaux anturieures, qui donnent passage aux nerfs olfactifs, ferment les orbites en avant, s’appuyent sur le sphdnoide et le vomer, ct donnent attache par une facette de leur horde inferieure aux palatins.” (Xepons d'Anat. Comp. ii. 1837, p. 606.) Compare this enunciation of the essential characters of the anterior fron- tals with Cuvier’s descriptions of the hones to which lie applies that name in other classes, and with the varialile determinations of tlie same hones hy other anatomists — le lacrymd, Gcoffroy and Spix ; lamina cribrosa ossis ethmoidei of Bojanus; seitliche reichbeine, Meckel, Vagner. Without at present entering into the respec- tive merits or demerits of these determinations, I shall only state that the pre- frontals, under whatever names they are described, are essentially the neurapophyses of the nasal vertebra, and that the failure in the attempt to determine the special homologies of these hones may, in every case, he traced to the non-apprcciation of > their true general homology.