204 LECTURE VIII. is laid upon the central surface, not the periphery, of the choroid : (Prep. No. 1669.) The formation of the iris by the production of all these membranes is well shown in this preparation of the eye of the Sword-fish (Xiphias, No. 1661.), where its thick base or ‘ciliary ligament’ (h) overlaps the convex border of the bony sclerotic. The pupil (i) is large and usu- ally round: in many Plagiostomes it is elliptic : in the flat-bodied Skates and Pleuronectidie, that grovel at the bottom and receive the rays of light from above, a fringed process descends from the upper margin of the pupil, and regulates the quantities of admitted light by being let down or drawn up like a blind. The muscular structure of the iris is very feebly developed in most fishes : it is best seen in the pupillary curtain of the Skate. The preparations of the Sword-fish’s eye (Nos. 1661 and 1662.), and these of the eyes of the Grey-Shark {Galeus, No. 1670), and the Basking-Shark (^Selache, No. 1670. A.), demonstrate the plicated anterior border of the uvea, forming the so-called ‘ ciliary zone, or processes ’ (k) : they are the most complicated in the great Shark, where each 2irocess “ consists of two or three minute folds, which, as they run forward, unite into one, and terminate in a point at the circumference of the iris* : ” but they do not, as yet, project freely inwards and forwards from the surface of the uvea. The subordinate and accessory character of the sclerotic capsule (/, 1,) is illustrated in most Osseous Fishes by its deviation from the sub- spherical form of the true eyeball which it ^Drotects, and by the great quantity of cellular, and often also of adipose tissue (m), which fills the wide intersjiace between the sclerotic and the choroid. In the fibrous tissue of the sclerotic are usually developed the two cartilaginous or osseous hemisj)heroid cups already described (p. 103. 30. i?) ; but in place of these, in the Ortliagoriscus, as in the Plagiostomes, the capsule is strengthened by a single hollow, cartilaginous, perforated sjihei’oidal globe. The anterior aperture is closed by the cornea («), which is essentially a modified portion of the corium (o), adhering to, as it passes over, the usually thickened borders of that aperture. In this specimen of the eye of the Xiphias (No. 1661.) you may trace an accession to the cornea from the outer fibrous layer of the sclerotic, which undergoes the same change of tissue, and forms the posterior layer of the cornea. This ti’arisparent windoiv of the eye-capsule is quite flat: its laminated structure is well displayed in the prepa- ration of the cornea of the Orthagoriscus (No. 1665.), and a dark- * Lxvi. iii, p. 147.