255 VASCULAll SYSTEM OF FISHES. semilunar valves at the ‘ ostium arteriosum ’ behind its origin, beyond which it slightly dilates, but has no muscular parietes constituting a ‘ bulbus arteriosus.’ In this Hunterian preparation of a large Myxinoid fish (No. 1018.) the artery divides at once into two branchial trunks, reminding one of the separate branchial arteries of the Cephalopods. In other species of Bdellostoma the artery extends beyond two or three pairs of gills before it bifurcates; and Muller* saw one in- stance in the Myxine glutinosa, where the branchial artery continued single as far as the anterior gills. The pericardium of the Ammocete communicates by one wide orifice with the peritoneum: that of theLamprey is a shut sac, and is supported by a perforated case of cartilage, formed by the last modified pair of branchial arches {fig. 11. 47', p. 52.). Not any of the Dermopteri pos- sess the ‘ bulbus artei'iosusthis is present, and forms, as it were, a third compartment of the heart, beyond the ventricle and auricle in aU other Fishes {fig. 61. ?■. fig. 70. c); nay, if we include the great ‘ sinus communis’ as part of the heart, then we may reckon four chambers in that of Fishes; but tlie student will observe that these succeed each other in a linear series, like the centres of the brain, and their valves are so disposed as to impress one course upon the same current of blood from behind forwards, driving it exclusively into the branchial artery and its ramifications. This is very different from the arrange- ment and relations of the four compartments of the human heart. Physiologically the heart of Fishes answers to the venous or pul- monary division, viz. the right auricle and ventricle of the mammalian heart, and its quadripai’tite structure in Fishes illustrates the law of vegetative repetition, rather than that of true physiological complica- tion.! The auricle and the ventricle are, however, alone proper to the heart itself: the sinus is a development of the termination of the venous system, as the muscular bulb is a superaddition to the com- mencement of the arterial trunk. Some of the higher organised Fishes, which present the normal structure of the heart, have, like the Myxinoids, a perforated peri- cardium. In the Sturgeon the communication with the peritoneum is by a single elongated canal extending along the ventral surface of the ccsophagus. In the Planirostra and Chimaeroids the pericardio- peritoneal canal is also single. In the Plagiostomes it bifurcates, after leaving the pericardium, into two canals, which diverge and open into the peritoneum, opposite the end of the oesophagus: no ciliary movements have been noticed on the surface of these reniark- * XXI. ib. p. 9. f The heart of lushes with the muscul.ar branchial artery will be seen to be the true ‘ homologue oi the left auricle, ventricle, and aorta in higher Vertebrata, as wc trace the complication of the heart synthetically ; but it performs a function ‘ ana- logous’ to that of the pulmonic auricle and ventricle in them.