39 THE SKELETON. prevails, and the extremities of the humeri and femora long remain epiphyses in the frog. A final purpose is no doubt, also, subserved in most of the separate centres of ossification which relate homologically to permanently dis- tinct bones in the general vertebrate series ; it has long been re- cognised in relation to facilitating birth in the human foetus; but some facts will occur to the human osteogenist, of which no teleolo- gical explanation can be given. One sees not, for example, why the process of the scapula which gives attachment to the pectoralis minor, the coraco^brachialis, and the short head of the biceps should not be developed by continuous ossification from the body of the blade-bone, like that which forms the spinous process of the same bone. It is a well-known fact, how- ever, that not only in Man, but in all Mammalia, the coracoid process is ossified from a separate centre. In the Monotremes it is not only a distinct, but is as large a bone as in Birds and Eeptiles, in which it continues a distinct bone throughout life. Here, then, we have the homological, without a teleological explanation of the separate centre for the coracoid process in the ossification of the human blade- bone. This distinction in the nature and relations of such centres, which is indispensable in the right application of the facts of osteogeny to the determination of the number of essentially distinct bones in any given skeleton, has never been considered, so far as I know, in that application. Some homologists (n. xiv.) have gone beyond Cuvier, and still more beyond nature, in arguing the number of individual bones, as indicated by the number of separate centres of ossification in the embryo, to be the same in all vertebrate animals ; and that they afterwards diflfered, or seemed to differ, only by reason of the greater or less rapidity or extent of the conffuence of those ossific centres or essentially distinct bones. This primitive conformity of separate osseous pieces in the verte- brate series holds good, however, only in regard to the separate centres of ossification of those bones of higher animals which have homological relations to the permanently distinct bones of lower spe- cies ; it by no means applies to those which have merely teleological relations to the species in wliich they exist. But, besides tlie epiphyses of the long bones of Mammalia, which enter into the latter category, and cannot, therefore, be properly viewed in the light of distinct bones ; what are we to say to the ' intercalated, inconstant “ ossa wormiana,” or to the ossified tendons of birds, or to those developed in the tendons of the vertebral muscles of the musk-deer? Are these to be reckoned equally distinct and in-