82 LECTURE IV. bones which project freely backwards from the occiput of theFistularia, with the dermal skeleton: the strong temporal muscle is attached to the two surfaces, divided by the ridge on its inferior part: it is movable up and down upon its anterior ligamentous union. In its relative position and functions, it combines the characters of post- frontal and mastoid ; and, since the basilar elements of these cranial vertebrm are confluent, and their spinal elements also form one piece, {fi9’ 29. 4, ii), we may here also have an example of a similar con- fluence of the parapophyses of two distinct vertebras. The mid- frontal {ih. 11) constitutes the anterior part of the epicranial bone, which is connected with the post-frontal and the cartilage perforated by the olfactory nerves and representing the pre-frontals. A more remarkable and less easily determinable bone is that tri- angular horizontal plate {ih. 15), the broad posterior base of which is attached by ligament to the mid-frontal, to the post-frontal, and to the pre-frontal processes of the palato-maxillary arch; whilst the apex forms the anterior extremity of the cranium, and supports at its under part two vertical sharp-pointed teeth. I originally compared it to the combined nasal and intermaxillary bones; but I now regard the cranial structure of the Murcenidce, in which the intermaxillaries are absent, and the nasal bone dentigerous, as giving the true key to the special homology of the bone in question. This nasal bone is movable, up and down, upon its basal joint, and reminds one of the similarly movable and attached appendage in the Callorhynchus, the free end or apex of which is beset at its under part with several small teeth. The triangular vomerine, or prefronto-vomerine, cartilage closes the anterior and under part of the cranial cavity, and supports the origins of the olfactory nerves, which perforate it in their passage to the cartilaginous nasal capsules. Each ramus of the lower jaw {fig. 27. 32) is composed of an articular and a dentary piece, the latter anchylosed together at the symphysis, and completing the inverted tympauo-mandibular arch. The articular piece is a simple slender plate, strengthening the outer part of the articular concavity of the jaw, and closing the outer groove of the dentary, along which it is continued forwards to near the symphysis, where it ends in a point. The articular trochlea is formed by a persistent cartilage, which penetrates the cavity in the dentai’y, escapes from the fore-part of the groove on the outer surface of the dentary, and joins its fellow, in a small cartilaginous mass, which Alls the hollow in front of the symphysis. The dentary piece lias the notched and trcncliant dentinal plate anchylosed to it, and sends up a strong coronoid process.