THE SKULL OF OSSEOUS FISHES. 91 tribe (fig. 35. 2), where they relate also to the connection of the air- bladder with the organ of hearing, by means of the ossicles ot, 5, c, rf, and e. The ex-occipitals are immovably articulated in the Cod, below with the basi-occipital, behind with the neurapophyses of the atlas, above with the- supra-occipital and the par-occipitals, and in fi'ont with the petrous bones, or acoustic capsules, intercalated between them and the alisphenoids. In a few fishes (e. g. Fistularia') the ex- occipitals send backwards articular processes modified to allow a slight movement upon the corresponding anterior articular processes of the neurapophyses of the atlas. Like these elements of the ordinary vertebro3 of some fishes (e. g. Lepidosiren, Thynnus, Xyphias), the bases of the ex-occipitals expand, approximate, and in most osseous fishes, meet upon the upper surface of the basi-occipital, and imme- diately support the medulla oblongata ; but sometimes a space is left between them, which is filled up by the basi-occipital *, and in Lepid- osteus, as I have just observed, the basi-occipital protects the whole epencephalon. The supra-occipital (spine of the occipital vertebra, 30 & 31. 3), of an elongated rhomboidal form in the Cod, triangular in the Carp, is articulated by an inferior cellulo-sutural surface, with the summits of the ex-occipitals and the mesial angles of the par-occipitals, com- pleting the circle or forming the key-stone of the neural arch: it usually sends upwards and backwards a strong compressed spine from the whole extent of the middle line, and a transverse ‘ supra-occi- pital ’ ridge outwards from each side of the base of the spine, to the external angles of the bone. In most fishes this bone advances for- wards and joins the frontal, pushing aside as it were the parietals : in Balistes, the produced part of the supra-occipital is even wedged into the hinder half of the frontal suture. In the Carp, on the contrary, the anterior angle of the supra-occipital is truncated, forming the base of the triangle, and is articulated by a lambdoidal suture to the parietal bones, {fig. 35. 7), which here meet at the mid-line of the skull, and the upper part of the occipital spine is low and fiattened. The supra-occipital is also separated from the frontal by the parietals, in the Salmonoid, Clupeoid, Muraenoid, and Salamandi’oid fishes {Lcpid- osteus, Polypterus), and is itself divided, in Lejndosteus, by a median suture ; these modifications tell strongly against extending the homo- • M. Agassiz, who has noticed a similar interspace between the summits of the ex-occipitals, as well as between tbe par-occipitals and sur-occipital above, observes, “ On dirait alors qu’une large fente mediane entnme tout I’occiput.” (Poissons Fossiles, i. p. 118.) But this could only be affirmed correctly, if the basi-occipital pvere likewise divided, and separated along the median line, of which I know not any exam])lc.