302 LECTURE XII. prevent the contact of the milt. The ovarian, or abdominal aperture of the oviduct is free and distinct from the ovary itself in the Pla- giostomes, the Lepidosiren, the Sturgeons, and Polypterus. If a little powdered charcoal be sprinkled on the ovarian orifices and ligaments exposed by opening the abdomen in a fresh caught female Dog-fish, the particles will be seen to move towards and enter the common oviducal aperture, indicative of a ciliated epithelium in the serous membrane, which may aid in the transport of the ova to that aperture. There is reason to suppose that impregnation of the eggs of both Sharks and Rays takes place in the ovarium or the contiguous part of the oviduct; for they become enveloped in the dense albuminous secretion of the nidamental glands after having passed that part, which covering would prevent the subsequent infiuence of the spermatozoa. The form of the egg, when thus invested, is remarkable, and very dif- ferent in different genera of Plagiostomes. In the Skate the ovum is an oblong, four-sided, flattened case, with the angles produced forwards and backwards, like those of a butcher’s tray (prep. 3235). The embryo skate is packed in the cavity with its broad pectorals bent upon its back, and its tail coiled round the body: the vitellicle is appended by a short and contracted neck. In the spotted Dog- fish (Scyllium, No 3249) the ova are also quadrilateral, but longer, and the angles are extended into long filamentary tendrils, which attach themselves to floating sea-weed, and thus keep the ovum near the surface, where the influence of solar heat and light is greatest 81). The eggs of the Caloi h^7ichus them- selves resemble some broad-leafed fucus, and thus, probably, deceive the fish that might other- wise devour them : they are in the form of a long depressed ellipse, with a broad plicated and fringed margin (No. 3235, A and b). The large Shark’s ovum (prep. 3245), resembles tliat of the Scyllium, with the addition of a series of trans- verse parallel ridges crossing the anterior and posterior surfaces. An elongated pyriform shell of a plagiostomous ovum, transmitted to me from Australia, as that of the Cestracion, is charac- EgK and Embryo ; Scyllium. .... One fourth nat. size. teriscd by a broad ridge or plate, winch is wound edge-wise around the ovum in five spiral circumvolutions. The sub- stance of all these egg-coverings is a light, but firm, albuminous horn- like tissue, of a more or less deep brown colour: the orifices {Jig. 81. c) admit the sea-water to the pendant respiratory filaments of the inclosed embryo {a). The yolk-bag is shown at b. Tlic essential difference between the oviparous and ovo-viviparous