VASCULAU SYSTEM OE EISIIES. 251 case enters tlie left or common cardinal vein.* In the Tunny the two ‘ venoe jugulares’ unite and form a common trunk, which enters the auricular sinus independently, f The Shad, the Pike, and the Lucioperca are examples where the jugular veins are symmetrical, and terminate distinctly in the precaval veins. With regard to the vertebro-venal system of the trunk, not all the segmental branches terminate in the ‘ vena cardinalis;’ the ‘neural or superior twigs form with the ‘ myelonaP veins a trunk which runs parallel with the cardinal veins, but above the vertebral bodies in the neural canal. This trunk, which I call the ‘ vena neuralis,’ communicates by short lateral and vertical canals w'ith the ‘ vena3 cardinales, and in the region of the abdomen these short anastomosing veins perforate the substance of the kidneys, and receive the ‘renal veins’ before terminating in the abdominal car- dinal veins. The ‘neural vein’ gradually exhausts itself by these descending branches, and does not extend to or terminate anteriorly in the precaval trunk. Jacobson, observing that the abdominal anas- tomotic branches of the neural vein, in transferring its contents to the cardinal veins, perforated the kidneys, thought that those branches ramified in the renal tissue, like the portal veins in the liver; but my observations concur with those of Meckel and Cuvier | in showing that they rather receive or communicate with the renal veins in transitu in Osseous Fishes. In the Lamprey the renal vein assumes the form of a cellular or cavernous sinus, of a very dark colour, extending along the mesial margin of the kidney, uniting with its fellow posteriorly, and communicating by small orifices with the contiguous cardinal vein. The visceral system of veins commences in Osseous Fishes by the capillaries of the stomach and intestines, of the pancreatic casca and spleen, of the generative organs and air-bladder: these, by progres- sive union and reunion, constitute either a single trunk which forms the portal arterial vein of the liver ; or, as in the Perch, a second trunk, the true homologue of the ‘inferior vena cava’ which returns the blood from the genital organs and air-bladder to the auricular sinus, without previous ramification in the liver; the portal trunk being formed only by the veins of the alimentary canal and its appen- dages. The portal trunk is single in the Ling, the Burbot, the Pope, the Eel, the Lamprey, and the Plagiostomes : but, in the Carp, where the lobes of the liver interlace with the convolutions of the intestine, the veins of this canal pass directly into the liver by several small branches, which ramify therein without forming a portal trunk. XXI. ib. j). 38. t lb. p. 37. J xxiu. p. 381.