DIGESTIVE SYSTEM OF FISHES. 237 are there carded and comminuted, and again swallowed, to be re- duced to chymous pulp by the solvent power of the secretions and by the continuous grinding pressui’C of the spiral movements of the gastric parietes. It is highly probable, therefore, that the shortness and width of the oesophagus, the masticatory mechanism at its com- mencement, and its direct terminal continuation with the cardiac portion of the stomach, relate to the eombination of an act analogous to rumination, with the ordinary processes of digestion, in all Fishes possessing those concatenated and peculiar structures. For it will be seen that the Fishes, as, for example, the Sturgeon, the Paddle-fish, the Dog-fish, and the Selache, whose oesophagus is best organised to prevent regurgitation from the stomach, are devoid of the pharyn- geal jaws and teeth. Fishes disgoi’ge the shells and other indigestible parts of their food : and it is known to practised anglers that Fishes, when hooked or netted, often empty their stomach by an instinctive act of fear, or to facilitate escape by lightening their load.* The intestinal canal is shorter in Fishes generally than in the higher Vertebrata: in the Dermopteri, Plagiostomes, tiolocephali, Sturionidai (see the Paddle-fish,6\.f to i), the Lepidosiren (xxxm. pi. 25. Jigs. 1 and 2.), the Flying-fish, the Loach, the Gar-pike, the Wolf-fish, the Salmon, the Herring, and the apodal fishes, it is shorter than the body itself : in some of the above-cited examples, the intestine extends in a straight line from the pylorus to the anus 46. ^) ; in most fishes it presents two or three folds ; it is sinuous in the Sword-fish; concen- trically and subspirally wound in the Mullet, in which the convolu- tions are numerous and form a triangular mass; and it is in tliis fucivorous fish, in the Cluetodonts, and the Carp-tribe, that the intes- tinal canal attains its greatest length in the present class. With a few exceptions, of which the Dermopteri and the Lepido- siren are examples, the intestines are divided into small’ and ‘large.’ The beginning of the small intestine, to which is arbitrarily given the name of ‘duodenum’ (y?y. 61. i) is usually wider than the rest of that division of the canal: it receives the ducts of the liver and pancreas, the latter accessory organ presenting, in most Osseous Fishes, the elementary form of simple cmca {Jig. 63. /d), which are usually termed, from their communication with, or development from, the commencement of the small intestine, ‘ appendices pyloricoe.’ The termination of the small intestine is commonly marked by a circular * A netted Salmon is generally found with an empty stomach ; whence it has been supposed, notwithstanding its extraordinary array of teeth, that its staple food con- sisted of such animalcules as are alone, under those circumstances, discoverable in the gastric mucus.