44 LECTURE III. losecl to tlie imcler pai't of the centrum, to which part they are moveahly articulated in the tails of most reptiles and mammals ; space being needed only for the protection of the ca- rotids in the one case, and for the caudal artery and vein in the other. In the chest, where the central organ of circulation is to he lodged, an expansion of the haemal arch takes place, analo- gous to that which the neural arches of the cranial vertebrae present for the lodgment of the brain. Accordingly in the thorax, the pleura- Rom thVneck popliyscs {fig. 6. pi) are much elongated, and the haemapophyses {fig. 6. 7i) are removed from the centrum, and are articulated to the distant ends of the pleura- pophyses ; the bony hoop being completed by the intercalation of the haemal spine {fig. 6. hs) between the ends of the haemapo- physes. And this spine is here sometimes as widely expanded (in the thorax of Birds and Chelonians, for example) as is the neural spine (parietal bone or bones) of the middle cranial vertebra in Mammals. In both cases, also, it may be developed from two lateral halves, and a bony intermuscular crust may be extended from the mid-line, as in the skull of the Hyaena, and the breast bone of the Hawk. The vertebrae of the trunk present essentially their most simple, though often apparently the most complete, condition in Fishes, in which class a typical vei'tebra can only be obtained from the head; in the rest of the column, the haemapophyses, for example, are always absent or unossified. It is by no means true that the several elements of a vertebra are found most isolated and distinct in the lowest classes ; the neurapophyses are commonly anchylosed to the centrum in fishes, but commonly remain isolated and distinct in reptiles; the haemal canal is formed by modified parapophyses in fishes, but by isolated and distinct haemapophyses co-existing with transverse processes in reptiles and mammals. The number of vertebras, or at least of neural arches, is governed by the number of segments of the cerebro-spinal axis. These segments in the spinal chord are chiefly indicated by the pairs of spinal nerves. In the brain, the centres are more definitely indi- cated by the ganglionic form under which they first make their appearance; but here, by the superaddition of fasciculi of nerve- fibres for the special functions of the brain, tlie origins of essentially single nerves become separated, and the motor roots divided from the sensitive, as we see in the nerves of the eyeball. Hence, the cranial vertebrae do not correspond with the number of seemingly distinct