90 LECTURE V. The first and lowest, called basi-occipital {ih. i) is a short, sti ong, siib-rliomboidal bone, sub-cylindi'ical and truncate posteriorly, where it is excavated to form the articular cavity, united by a jelly-filled capsule with the corresponding hollow cone on the fore- part of the body of the atlas; the anterior pointed end of the basi-occipital is wedged into the basi-sphenoid, fitting and filling up the deep posterior cleft of that bone. The basi-occipital supports the ‘ oblong prolonga- tion,’ of the spinal chord in the skull; and on each side offers a rough articular surface for sutural union with two lateral bones, the Disarticulated epencephalic _ ••ii r -i „ ii-i i-, arch, viewed from behind: CX-OCCipitalS \10^ 2, 2); behind which the Gadus Morrhua. i • • i i i* • basi-occipital, also, sometimes receives the anteriorly projecting base of the neural arch of the atlas, which, in the Cod, is wedged into the posterior angle between the basi- and ex-occipitals, and is firmly united to them by broad sutural surfaces. The articular cup for the atlas varies from the deep conical excavation seen in the Carp, to the almost flat surface in the Holibut; it is ex- tremely rare to find, as in the Fistularia, the basi-occipital presenting a convex surface for articulation with the body of the atlas. In many fishes the under part of the basi-occipital is expanded and excavated ; in the Carp the under surface of this part forms a broad triangular plate, which supports the large upper pharyngeal grinding tooth f; in the bony Gar-fish {Lepidosteus) the basi-occipital developes two plates from its upper and outer angles, w^hich complete the foramen magnum and support the ex-occipitals above. The ex-occipitals (neurapophyses of the occipital vertebra, ih. Q, 2) present, in the Cod, the form of oblong, sub-quadrate bones, thick, and with two rough deeply indented articular surfaces below, but expanded and produced outwards above; they encircle the epen- cephalon, over-arching and often meeting above it, and completing the contour of the foramen magnum. They are perforated for the jjassage of the nervi vagi, sometimes for the first spinal or hypoglossal nerve ; the foramina being unusually large in the Carp- * The synonymes and corresponding numbers and letters of the bones of the skull are given in the tabular conspectus appended to this Lecture ; the numbers of the bones in the text correspond in each of the figures. ■f Dentigerous processes are developed from the under part of the cervical verte- bral centres in the Coluber scaher of Linna;us.