103 THE SKULL OF OSSEOUS FISHES. consists of two hollow hemispheroid pieces, each with two opposite emarginations; the inner ones circumscribing the hole, (analogous to the meatus internus of the petrosal,) for the entry of the nerves and vessels to the essential parts of the organ of vision; and the outer or anterior emarginations supporting the cornea. As this part of the skeleton of the head retains its primitive fibro-membranous condition in Man and Mammalia, it is called the sclerotic coat of the eye ; and the osseous plates developed in it in Birds, many Reptiles, and Fishes, are termed ‘ sclerotic bones.’ It bears, however, the same essential relation to the vascular and nervous parts of the organ of sight, which the petrous bone does to the organ of hearing, and which the turbinate bones do to the organ of smell : the persistent independence of the eye-capsule, which has led to its being commonly overlooked as part of the skeleton, relates to the requisite mobility and free suspension of the organ of vision. In the Cartilaginous Fishes, however, it is articulated by means of a pedicle with the orbito-sphenoid. The osseous cavity or ‘ orbit ’ lodging the eye-ball is formed by the pre-sphenoid, orbito-sphenoid, frontal, post-frontal, pre-frontal, and palatine bones : it opens widely outwards, where it is, often, further circumscribed by the chain of ‘ sub-orbital ’ scale-bones below, and, but less frequently, by a supra-orbital bone above. The bony orbits in most fishes com- municate freely together, or rather with that narrow prolongation of the cranial cavity lodging the olfactory nerves: but, in many Malacopteri, e. g. tlie Shads and Erythrmus, the Citharinus and Ilydrocyon, the Synhranchus, and the genus Cyprinus {Jig- 35. is), an osseous septum divides the orbits. In the Lepidosteus and Poly- pterus the orbits are divided by a double septum, forming the proper walls of the olfactory prolongation of the cranium, as we shall find to be the case in the Batrachia. Tlie bony capsules of the organ of smell pi-esent the same division into cranial and nasal {ccthmoidal, Jig, 35. is, turhinal,Jig. 30. 19) por- tions, in Fishes as in Man, and, as in Man likewise, other bones, the vomer and nasal, for example, contribute an accessaiy protective func- tion. All the parts of the proper capsule are cartilaginous in cartila- ginous and semi-osseous fishes ; the ethmoidal part continues cartila- ginous in many osseous fishes, closing the fore part of the cranium, assisting to form the interorbital septum, and contributing to support the olfactory nerves in their exit from the skull. When ossification is established in the ethmoidal cartilage, it is usually confined in fishes to the cranial end, forming there a single symmetrical, slender, bifur- cate or sub-quadrate piece, usually i)crforatcd by tlie olfactory nerves ; but never in two distinct pieces corrcsi)onding to the two II 4