85 THE SKULL OF OSSEOUS FISHES. magnum; the apex is more or less widely and deeply cleft trans- versely by the aperture of the mouth ; the orbits are lateral, large, and usually communicating freely with one another; and there are also two lateral fissures behind, called gill-apertures, with a mecha- nism for opening and closing them. The mouth receives not only the food, but also the streams of water for respiration, which escape by the opercular or gill-apertures. The head contains not only the brain and organs of sense, but likewise the heart and the whole re- spiratory apparatus. The inferior, inverted, hiemal protecting arches are greatly developed accordingly, and their diverging or radiated appendages support membranes re-acting upon the surrounding fluid, and more or less employed in locomotion : one pair, in fact, is the homo- logue of the pectoral extremities in higher Vertebrata, nnd the sus- taining (scapular) arch frequently also supports the homologues of the pelvic extremities. Thus jaws and tongue, heart and gills, arms and legs, may all belong to the head ; and the disproportionate size of the skull, and its firm attachment to the trunk, required by these functions, are precisely the conditions most favourable for facilitating the movements of the fish through its native element. It may well be conceived, then, that more numerous bones enter into the formation of the skeleton of the head of Fishes, than of any other animals. Most of these bones present the squamous character and mode of union, being flattened, thinned off, and overlapping one another like scales; and although the skull, as a whole, has less mo- bility on the trunk than in higher animals, more of the component bones enjoy independent movements. The principal cavities, which are formed by this assemblage of bones, are, the ‘ cranium,’ lodging the brain and organs of hearing; the ‘ orbital’ and the ‘ nasal’ fosso3; the ‘ buccal’ and the ‘ branchial’ canals. Few of these cavities are well defined, and in no class of animals is the exterior of the skull so broken by irregular depressions and prominent spines and protuberances. The upper surface of the cranium is commonly traversed by five longitudinal crests, inter- cepting four channels : the principal crest is the median one, formed by the frontal and occipital bones {Jig. 19. 3); next to this is the pair formed by the parietals {ib. 7) and par-occipitals; and the lateral pair of crests is formed by the post-frontals and mastoids {ih. 12, 8) : the intervening depressions lodge the anterior origins of the great muscles of the back and of the scapular arch : very rarely do tlie temporal muscles extend their attachments (as in the Conger, Lepidosiren and Symbranchus) to the upper surface of the 'cranium. The upper boi’der of the orbit sometimes sends off strong G 3