121 THE SKULL OF OSSEOUS FISHES. interspace of the radius and ulna are separated from the coracoids by a space occupied by an aponeurosis ; and in the Wolf-fish the inter- mediate carpals are almost divided by two opposite notches. The ulna is perforated in all these fishes. The radius is of enormous size in the Opal (^Lampris) and in the Flying-fish; it is anehylosed with the coracoid in the Silurus, to give firmer support to its strong ser- rated pectoral spine. I find both radius and ulna, which are ex- tremely small, connate with the coracoid in a large LopMus {Jig- 40. 54, 55). This condition probably occasioned them to be overlooked by Geoffrey, whose figure of the bones of the pectoral extremity of this fish* moreover i-epresents the two long bones of the carpus, (ii.56, 56), which he calls ‘radius’ and ‘ulna’ ujiside down. The ossicles called carpals are usually four or five in number, as in the Cod tribe {Jig. 19. 30. 56); they progressively increase in length from the ulnar to the radial side of the carpus, especially in the Parrot-fish ( Seams') and the Mullets {Mugil). They are three in number and elongated in the Polypterus {Jig. 41. 56), but are reduced to two in number, and more elongated in the Lophius {Jig. 40. 56) ; thus they retain in this species and in the Sharks their primi- tive form of ‘rays,’ but change to broad flat bones in the Wolf-fish, just as the rays of the opercular fin exchange that form in the Pla- giostomes for broad and flat plates in ordinary Osseous Fishes. The rays representing the metacarpal ouClphalangeal bones 30. 40. 57) are in the Cod twenty in number, and all soft, jointed, and sometimes bifurcate at the distal end. Their proximal ends are slightly expanded and overlap each other, but are so articulated as to permit an oblique divarication of the rays to the extent permitted by the uniting fin-membrane, the combined effect being a movement of the fin, like that called the ‘ feathering of an oar.’ Each soft and * Anrmlcs du MuBcum, 1807, pi. 29.