285 RENAL SYSTEM OF FISHES. tlie tail, the abdominal parietes, and the generative organs has so far the aspect of a ‘ portal ’ or inferent vessel, that a second and larger vein, whose roots take their rise in part from the renal substance, ex- tends from the inner and anterior part of the kidney to convey its blood to the vena cava. The exterior vein is not, however, com- pletely expended in the kidney, but is also continued forwards from the anterior end to join the veins from the anterior abdominal parietes, and sometimes those from the pectoral fins. Whether the blood takes a retrograde course in these towards the kidney, and meets the stream from the hinder commencement of the exterior vein, is undetermined. In all fishes the kidneys maintain the same relations with the cardinal veins that their transitory homologues, the ‘ Wolf- fian bodies,’ do in the embryo of the higher Vertebrates. SUPRA-RENAL BODIES. Professor Muller has described two small oval lobulated bodies, situated in advance of the kidneys, close to the portal sinus and near the pericardium, in the Myxinoid Fishes, as the ‘glandulce suprarenales. ’ * In the typical Osseous Fishes they have been re- cognised as roundish bodies of a light grey colour; commonly two, rarely three in number; situated, sometimes near the middle, oftener at the hinder extremities of the kidneys, at or near the entry of the lifemal canal : sometimes they lie free, sometimes they are imbedded in the renal tissue (Pike, Salmon, Eel) ; but they always possess a proper capsule, and present what seems to be a minutely granular texture, without distinction of cortical and medullary parts. In the yellowish supra-renal bodies of the Sturgeon, the granules are minute spherical cells filled by microscopic nucleated corpuscles. In the Plagiostomes, the supra-renal glands are represented by elongated narrow yellowish bodies, situated behind the kidneys, and sometimes extending behind the dilated ureters. * XXI. Angelologie, 1841, pp. 14—17. tab. ii. fig. 2. n.