3 INTRODUCTORY LECTURE, ieristic modifications of tlie Human frame; and tlien only can we fie said to know properly our own structure, and, from Anthropo- tomists, to fiecome Anatomists in the true sense of the word. As such we begin to feel ourselves in possession of an instrument which can fie brought to operate successfully in the solution of deep and difiicult problems of more general interest in the common- wealth of knowledge, and which renders us indispensable auxiliaries in the advancement of Sciences which might at first appear to have but a remote relationship with Anatomy. I need not expatiate on the light which Anatomy lends to the Zoologist, in threading the in- tricate mazes of the natural affinities of animals ; it is, by universal consent, admitted to be the essential basis of a sound system of classi- fication. I need not dwell on the importance of the Comparative Ana- tomy of the minute and low organised Invertebrata in establishing true theories, and eradicating false notions, of the origin of living species; of which different hypothetical secondary causes have been from time to time offered for the acceptance or speculation of the tliinking public. But I would allude to the power wffiich the appreciation of the co- relations and interdependencies of the several parts of each organic machine gives us to interpret the nature of the whole from the ob- servation of a part. By this principle its discoverer, the immortal Cuvier, and his successors in this application of Anatomy, have been enabled to re- store and reconstruct many species that have been blotted out of the book of life. By this we determine from fossil bones or fragments, submitted to us by the Geologist, the species which are charac- teristic of different strata. By physiological deductions we can prove that such species, now extinct, have lived and died, generation after generation, through the period when those additions were made to the eartli’s crust which their remains characterise. Thus, and thus only, can we obtain a clear idea of the lapse of time in which these formations have taken place. The order of superposition of strata indicates, indeed, their successive formation, but the determination of their organic remains proves that each formation was gradual and progressive. One of the results of this application of Anatomy has been no less than the discovery of the law of succession of animal life on this planet, or the determination of the relative periods at which the dif- ferent classes were successively called into being. / Another result may be expected, and is in progress, as a corollary of the preceding, viz. the determination of the true Chronology of the Earth. 11 a