2-18 LECTURE X. Avai’ds to the interspace of the pectoral fins, where the size of the vessel best favours the insertion of the injecting pipe. It receives the lymphatics of the pectorals, and (in thoracic and jugular fishes) of the ventral fins ; then, advancing forwards through the coracoid arch, it spreads out into a rich network, which almost surrounds the pericardium. The lymphatic plexus which covers the heart of the Sturgeon and Paddle-fish presents a spongy and almost glandular appearance when uninjected: large lymphatic trunks from the upper (dorsal) part of this plexus receive the lymphatics of the myocommata by a deep-seated trunk which runs along the ribs, and the lymphatics of the mucous ducts and integuments by a superficial trunk, which ex- tends along the lateral line, and gets a penniform character by the regular mode in which its tributary lymphatics join it. The lym- phatics of the head form minor plexuses at the bases of the orbits, and in the Carp they extend into the basi-cranial canal; those from the cellular arachnoid pass through the occipital foramen to join the lymphatics of the spinal canal, and terminate in the cervical and sub-occipital trunks, which receive the lymphatics from the upper extremities of the gills : these, with the deep-seated lymphatics from the kidneys, join the single or double trunks at the under part of the vertebral column, which combine with the lacteal plexiform trunks continued forwards along each side of the stomach and oesophagus, to form a large, short, common lacteo-lymphatic trunk on each side, which terminates in the jugular vein near its junction with the short jjrecaval vein. The lymphatic system of the caudal portion of the body is chiefly received by two caudal sinuses, intercommunicating by a transverse canal, which sometimes perforates the base of the anchylosed compressed terminal tail-vertebra, and, converging to enter the haemal canal, terminates there in the commencement of the ‘ vena caudalis.’ Dr. M. Hall discovered that the caudal lymphatic sinus, in the Eel, possessed a contractile pulsating power.* Fohmanf describes other and minor communications between the absorbent and venous system of Fishes. The lymphatics of Fishes consist generally of a single tunic ; a most delicate epithelial lining may be distinguished in the larger trunks. The only situations where valves have been seen in these vessels are at the terminations of the trunks in the caudal and the jugular veins. There are no lymphatic glands: these are repre- sented by the large and numerous plexuses; and the whole absor- bent system presents, as might be expected in Fishes, the first step beyond the primitive condition of the common areolar or cellular receptacle of the lymph in the Invertebrata. The chyle, as well as tiie f cm. » XXXIX. ii. p. 217.