80 LECTURE IV. tlie simple diverging ajipendages to the abdominal pleurapophyses of better ossified fishes, and like the costal appendages in the thorax of birds; but it is here cartilaginous, and consists of many segments. It forms in fact the rudiment (a solitary ray) of the pectoral fin ; it IS the key to the homology of the anterior or upper limbs of the higher Vertebrata, showing them to be appendages of the liEemal arch (usually called scapular) of the occipital or posterior cranial vertebra. In the second (parietal) and third (frontal) cranial vertebrie, ossi- fication extends along the basal and along the spinal elements, but not into the neural pr lateral elements ; these remain cartilaginous in continuation with the cartilage surrounding the large capsule of the internal ear. The basal ossification, representing at its posterior end the body of the atlas and the basi-occipital, expands as it advances along the base of the skull in the situation of the sphenoids, consti- tuting the floor of the cerebral chamber, supporting the medulla oblongata, the hypophysis, the crura and lobes of the cerebrum, and terminating a little in advance of the olfactory lobes by a broad transverse margin, bounding a triangular space left between it and the converging palatine arches, which space is filled by cartilage representing the vomer. The occipital part of this basi-cranial bone may be defined by a slight transverse depression, where also termi- nates a median longitudinal groove, traversing the under part of the thus defined occipital portion of the bone; and indicating, like the corresponding membranous fissure in Cestracion, the primitive place of the cranial end of the chorda. The expanded sides, originally arches of the cartilaginous portion, bend down to abut against the bases of the pterygoid plates. In this expansion of the basi-sphenoid the Lepidosiren resembles the Plagiostomes and also the Batrachian Reptiles. Two ridges rise from the upper surface of the occipito-sphenoidal plate, near its outer margin, and support the cartilaginous lateral walls of the cranium. The cranial cavity is defended above by a longitudinal bony roof (y?y. 27. 3, 7, li), nearly co-extensive with the bony floor beneath ; the roof commences behind by the spine or point which overhangs the ex-occipitals, gradually expands as it advances, resting upon the cartilaginous walls of the cranium, is then suddenly contracted, and is united anteriorly by fibrous ligament to the ascend- ing process of the palato-maxillary arch, and to the base of the nasal plate. A strong sharp crest or spine rises from above the whole of the middle line of the cranial roof-bone, which may be regarded as representing the mid-frontal, the parietal, and supra-occipital bones, or, in more general terms, the neural spines of the three cranial vertebra}: but this supra-cranial bone not only covers the medulla