73 THE SICHLL OF FISHES. only its upper and middle pai't membranous, as in tbe human embryo when ossification of the cranium commences. Two broad cartilages {ib. 20, 21) may represent, upon the roof of the infundibular suctorial mouth, the palatine and maxillary bones, and anterior to these there is a labial cartilage {ib. 22) : there are likewise cartilaginous processes ib. r, s) for the support of the large dentigerous tongue, and the attachment of its muscles; besides the cartilaginous basket, before de- scribed, which supports the modified and perforated homologue of the large respiratory pharynx in the Branchiostoma {fig- 46.). As regards the development of the skull, properly so called, the ordinary course is pursued with very little deviation in the Der- mopterous fishes; but is arrested at more or less early embryonic stages: yet at each of these, even the earliest, development proceeds in a special direction, to stamp the species with its own distinctive and peculiar character: in the Branchiostoma by the articulated cartilaginous labial arch and its numerous filaments; and in the pro- per Myxinoids and Lampreys by the formation of the complex system of lateral and labial cartilages ; or by the modification of the palatine, maxillary, and hyoid rudiments, in relation to the suctorial function of the mouth. The more or less cartilaginous skull of the Plagiostomous fishes might be histologically regarded as the transitional step from the Cyclostomous to the Osseous fishes; but, morphologically, it ofiers a very different type, apparently a simpler one, if compared with the Myxine or Lamprey, but one which in consequence of the progress of development in the direct vertebrate route, more nearly approxi- mates to the type of cranial organisation in the lower forms of Rep- tilia. The Monk-fish {Squatina, —an intermediate form between the Sharks and Rays) affords a good and typical example of the essential characters of the plagiostomous skull. The cranial end of the chorda dorsalis and its capsule are converted into firm granular cartilage ; and this cartilage extends from the prominent median basal ridge, indicative of the primitive place of the chorda, on each side and for- wards so as to constitute an oblong flattened plate forming the whole basis cranii. The posterior margin of this ‘ occipito-sphenoidal ’ plate supports two convex condyles, as in most of the Rays, for arti- culation with the body and parapophyses of the axis.* The lateral margins of the basal cartilage have two notches, the intervening pro- minence representing the primitive sphenoidal arch, here filled up and sending off a rudimental pterygoid process outwards. Just an- • The body of the atlas has coalesced with the basi-occipital, as is indicated by its slender but separate neural arch. The condyloid foramen is just above the outer end of the condyle.