66 LECTURE III. fislies, by the numerous centres of ossification, from which shoot out bony rays afifording additional strength to many of the intermuscular aponeuroses: some of these supernumerary or intercalary ossicles belong to the endo-skeleton, but most of them to the exo-skeleton. In the former system of bones may be ranked those spines which are attached to, or near to, the heads of the ribs, and extend upwards, out- wards, and backwards, between the dorsal and lateral masses of muscles : these are the ‘ diverging appendages ’ of the abdominal ribs 17. ip, fig. 23. pi a), and may be termed ‘ epipleural spines ; ’ though they sometimes pass gradually, as the vertebras approach the tail, from the rib upon the parapophysis, and even in the posterior abdominal vertebrm (e. g. Holocentrum), upon the bodies and neural arches. They are the “ obere rippe ” of Meckel, and at the fore-part of the abdomen, in Polypterus, the epipleural spines are stronger than the ribs themselves. The spinous appen- dages are remarkably developed in the Halecoid fishes, (Salmon and Herring,) in the Mackerel- tribe, and the Dolphin {CoryphcBtia). In our common herring you will find them attached not only to the ribs {fig. 23. pi, a), but also di- verging from the parapophyses (pa), and the neurapophyses {no), and the vertebra is further complicated by de‘rmal bones, those on the under surfaee of the abdomen {dJi) being eonnected, like the scutes of serpents, with the lower ends of the ribs {pi). The very distinet histological condition of the endo- and exo- skeleton of the Sturgeon {fig. 43.), shows clearly the nature of those spines {fig. 19. dn, dn), which form, in osseous fishes, a second row, of greater or less extent, above the true neural spines, and sup- port the dorsal fins. Thus, in Accipenser Ratzburgii, twelve of the hard enamelled calcareous plates (ganoid scales) along the mid-line of the back, send upwards and backwards a moderately long spine : the series is then continued in a cartilaginous state to support the dorsal fin. In the Polypterus sixteen accessary bones, in the form of longer and sharper spines, are extended over thrice as many vertebrm: and each dermal spine supports a membrane, strengthened at its upper part by four or five branched and jointed rays. From the base of the dermal spines, other spines {fig- 19. in, hi) usually shoot down- wards, into the intervals of the neural spines: these inverted spines may be the homologues of the wedge-shaped interneural pieces before noticed in the vertebras of Sharks, and may well retain that name in the osseous fishes. Sometimes they are double, as in the Flat-fish