30 LECTURE II. In most osseous fishes the nucleus of the cartilage-cell quite dis- appears in the pi’ocess of ossification, and only the tubular prolon- gations of the nuclear matter leave permanent traces, as plasmatic tubes, which traverse the osseous lamellae in the intervals of the vas- cular canal, and freely open into the latter, which are unusually numerous. In the bones of Reptiles there is more diversity in the number of the Haversian canals, which is less in Ophidians and Saurians than in the fish-like Batrachian. The radiated cells are always present, but are less regular in form and rather larger than in Mammals ; they are rounder in Birds, with less conspicuous radiating plasmatic tubes; they are usually more elliptic and compressed in Mammals, in the osseous tissue of which class the more appreciable difference in microscopic structure obtains in the relative size of the Haversian canals to the plasmatic, calcigerous, radiated cells. These cells vary little in diameter in different Mammalia; but the Haversian canals which average inch in diameter in the mouse are -g-^^th of an inch in diameter in the ox, and -^gotli of an inch in the human subject. The Haversian canals are fewer in the dense osseous tissue of Birds than in that of Mammals: in the bones of Chelonia and Batrachia they are more numerous, larger, and more reticularly dis- posed ; the radiated cells are also larger. In my treatise on the teeth (v. pp. xvi—xxii.), I have shown that the osseous tissue corresponds in microscopic structure with that of the dentine in many fishes. In no class is the structure of the teeth more varied, and in none do we find such extreme modifications in that of the bones. Throughout a great part of the skeleton of the pike the osseous, like the dental, tissue is characterised by “a reticulo-medullary tubular structure: ” the meshes or interspaces being traversed by the rich series of plasmatic tubes communicating with the vascular or Haversian canals; and there are few central dilatations radiating plasmatic tubes, in other words, few pui’kingian cells. • In tins section of the lower jaw of a Mureena (Prep. 2560 a.) we per- ceive, on the contrary, an abundance of radiated cells, but no Haversian canals. The cells, divided lengthwise, present a long, thin ellipse, with the ends prolonged into plasmatic tubes, larger than those which radiate from the sides; and, as the terminal prolongations communicate with each other, a series of cells may often be traced resembling a monili- form or alternately dilated and contracted canal. In a section of a jaw of the common eel, large, irregular vascular canals are seen, combined with radiated cells like those in the Mura?na. In a section taken from the second thin longitudinal crest of the cranium of an