280 LKCTURE XI, scaly integuments, the mucous tubes and pores on the head, the ‘ lateral line,’ and, in short, the totality of the organisation of the Lepidosiren, will be deemed to fully prove its true ichthyic nature. It is extremely interesting to find the Ganoid Polypterus, which of all osseous fishes most closely resembles the Lepidosiren in its spiral intestinal valve, in the bipartition of the long air- bladder, the origin of the arteries of that part, and the place and laryngeal mode of communication of the short and wide air-duct or windpipe, also presenting the closest agreement with the Lepi- dosiren in the important character of the form of the brain. The common objection to the view of the air-bladder of fishes being the rudimental homologue of the lungs of air-breathing Vertebrates has been, that the artery of the air-bladder carries arterial blood, that of the lungs venous blood. Let us compare the air-bladders of the Polypterus and Lepidosiren in reference to this character. The arteides of both are derived from the returning dorsal portions of the branchial vascular arches before their union to form the aorta. In the Polypterus, according to Muller, the artery of each air-sac is formed by the union of the efferent vessels of the last gill: the blood is, therefore, arterialised before entering the artery of the air-sac. In the Lepidosiren, by reason of the non-developmeut of gills on two of the branchial arches, the blood transmitted to the air-sac is venous. But this difference relates only to the presence or absence of a particular development of the branchial vascular arches, from which the air-bladders of the two species are supplied with blood : it is a difference which modifies the function without at all changing the essential nature of the air-bladders themselves: the relative position of these vascular sacs, their form and size, their mode of communication with the oesophagus, — in short, every character by which relations of homology are detei’mined, — are the same in both Polypterus and Lepidosiren.* The lungs of the Lepidosiren being, then, unequivocally the homologues of the air-bladder of the Polypterus, it follows that they must be homologous with the air- bladders of other fishes, whatever be the modifications of form or function of such air-bladders. Between the completely divided air- bladder of the Polypterus and the undivided air-bladder of Lepi- dosteus there are numerous degrees of bifurcation in the series of fishes: it is to the undivided state of the air-bladder in the Lepi- dosteus that its more strictly dorsal position, and its communication with that aspect of the msophagus, are due : these modifications. * Compare xxxiii. pi. xxvii. figs. 3 and 4. with xxv. pi. ii. figs. 5 and 6., and fig. 54. XXXIII. p. 182. with xxv. pi. ii. fig. 7.