254 LECTURE X. reaction of the oxygenous element; and for this, the most important and efficient cause of its conversion into arterial blood, a contractile cavity, with strong muscular Avails, is provided, in order to impel the blood to the organs especially destined to effect its decarbonisation and oxygenation. The proiDclling organ is called the ‘ heart ’ (^ff. 61. p, q). the respiratory organs the ‘gills’ or branchiaa {ih. t, u), since they submit the blood to the influence of the air through the medium of the water in which it is suspended or dissolved. There is only one known fish, viz. the Lancelot, in which a venous or branchial heart is not developed as a compact and predominant muscular organ of circulation : a great vein answering to the ‘ vena cardinalis ’ extends forwards along the caudal region, beneath the chorda dorsalis, above the kidney {fig. 46. A); and as it extends along the branchial oesophageal sac gives vessels to or receives’them from the ciliated vertical bands or divisions of that sac, Avhich vessels communicate with a vascular trunk along the inferior part of that sac. This trunk at its posterior end dilates into a small sinus ipv), which pulsates rythmically, and repi’esents rudimentally the branchial heart of the Myxinoids : the cardinal vein (bd) divides anteriorly, and supplies the short vascular processes {gg), which project above the pharyngeal orifice {ph) into the wide buccal cavity: the blood oxygenized in these processes is transmitted to the cerebral portion of the neural axis, to the organs of sense, especially the sensitive integument of the head, and to the jointed labial ten- tacula, whence it returns to the pharynx by the labial vessels Avhich there unite together, and with the inferior trunk of the vas- cular system, or arches, of the branchial pharynx. The free vas- cular processes (gg) seem to me to perform most distinctly the func- tion of gills, and they are so referred to in the characters of the suborder Pliaryngo-hranchii (p. 47.) : but they may be homologous with the supralabial tentacles of the Ammocete. In the Myxinoids a heart consisting of an auricle and a ventricle is situated, like the pulsating tube or sinus of the Lancelet, far back from the head, in the beginning of the abdomen, where it is inclosed by a fold or duplicature of the peritoneum, extending between the cardiac end of the oesophagus above, and the anterior liver below, and forming the homologue of the pericardium, which sac communicates freely by a wide opening with the common peritoneal cavity. The auricle is much longer than the ventricle : it receives the blood from the common sinus by an orifice defended by a double valve. The auricle eommunicates with the left side of the rounded ventricle, the ‘ ostium venosum ’ having also a double valve. There are no ‘ columnaj carnea} ’ or ‘ chorda) tendinea).’ The artery, single here as in all Fishes, rises from the fore-part of the ventricle with a pair of