NERVOUS SYSTEM OF FISHES. 207 level with the side of the head, olfers no impediment to those move- ments. This form of cornea diminishes the capacity of the aqueous chamber; but the aqueous humour is needed only to float the free border of the iris; and to make up for the small quantity of that humour, the convexity and refractive power of the lens are increased. To compensate for the deviation from the spherical form of the eyeball produced by the flattening of its fore-pai’t, and the con- sequent weakening of the power to resist external pressure, the sclerotic capsule is cartilaginous or bony. This beautiful chain of adjustments and interdependencies cannot but raise the rightly constituted mind to the contemplation of the attributes of that Creative Intelligence herein so strikingly displayed. Organ of Hearing. — The cartilaginous capsules of the acoustic organs are precociously developed in all Ashes : in the Myxinoids and Ammocetes they retain their primitive exterior position at the sides of the base of the proper cranium {^fig. 24. 16); they are less conspicuous in the Lamprey {fig. 26. 16) ; they become in- volved in the thick cartilaginous walls of the cranium in the Plagi- ostomes; and, in Osseous Fishes, are walled up externally either by the surrounding cranial bones, or by a special ossification of the exterior part of the capsule itself, forming an ‘ os petrosum,’ as, e. g. in the Cod {fig. 30. le). In the dry-skull the ear-chamber appears as a large lateral compartment of the cranial cavity, and is formed as described in p. 102. In the Myxinoids the membranous labyrinth is a simple annular tube, lined by vibratile cilia, filled with fluid, and supporting the ramiflcations of the acoustic nerve. In the Ammocete and Lamprey the labyrinth is specially attached to its cartilaginous capsule, and consists of a ‘ vestibule ’ and two ‘ semicircular canals,’ each of which dilates, at its origin, into an ‘ ampulla,’ which has some processes from its inner surface. The two canals again communicate with the vestibule, where they cross each other: the two divisions of the acoustic nerve first surround the ampullas before they spread over the rest of the labyrinth. In all other Fishes the membranous labyrinth consists of a vesti- bule and three semicircular canals; the vestibule dilating into one or more ‘ sacculi,’ separated by a constriction, or by a narrow canal from the ‘ alveus communis,’ and containing, besides tlie fluid called ‘ endolymph,’ two or more masses of carbonate of lime, called ‘ oto- lites.’ * These ai’e compact and crystalline in Osseous Fishes. * Figures of these bodies will be found in nxvi. iii. pi. 35.; in lxxi. lxvih. and in Lxxii., with microscopic figures of the crystals.