27 THE SKELETON. tion of soluble salts to the less soluble phosphates of lime is greatest in the fish, and that there is most carbonate of lime in the bones of the tortoise. The quantity of evaporable fiuid is greatest in the bones of Fishes, especially in those of the semi-osseous sharks and rays, in the skeletons of which also the salts of soda are in larger proportion than in the osseous fishes. The animal part of the shark’s skeleton differs from the glutin of ordinary bones, and from the ossifiable cartilage of higher animals; it has more analogy with mucus, requiring 1000 times its weight of boiling water for its solution ; and this is neither precipitated by infusion of galls, nor yields any gelatine upon evaporation. In the entirely unossified skeleton of the lamprey Bibra found only 1^ per cent, of earthy salts. How, we may next ask, are the inorganic earthy particles diffused through the animal basis, and whence are they obtained ? Bones are not a primitive formation, but the result of a transmutation of pre- existing tissues. The inorganic salts defined in the foregoing tables pre-exist in the albumen of the egg, in the milk which nourishes the new-born mammal, in the plasma or “liquor sanguinis ” of the circu- lating fluids. The blastema or primitive basis of bone is not originally cartilage, but more resembles mucus in its chemical characters: it appears at first to be a sub-transparent glairy fluid, but contains a multitude of minute corpuscles. Its assumption of the cartilaginous character and consistency is attended with the appearance in it of numerous small, sub- elliptic, nucleated cells. As the cartilage hardens, these cells increase in number and size, and begin to accumulate, and to be arranged in linear series at the part where ossification is about to commence. These series in the cartilage of long bones are usually vertical to its ends, and in flat bones are vertical to the peripheral edge i i. e. they are parallel to the axis of the long bone, and are radiated in the flat one, but not with mathematical exactness. The nucleated cells are the instruments by which the earthy par- ticles are arranged in order; and, in bone, as in tooth, there may be discerned in this predetermined arrangement, the same relation to the acquisition of strength and power of resistance, with the greatest economy of the building material, as in the disposition of tlie beams and columns of a work of human ai’chitecture. (v. p. vi.) The power of the cells so to operate upon the salts of the plasma, which percolates the intervening tissue, seems to reside chiefly in the repellent property of their nuclei: I have been led by observation oi