CHARACTERS OF THE CLASSES OP VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. 13 Procreation is rarely attended with a coitus or intromission, the requisite accessory organs being wanting in the majority of the class : and the product still more rarely receives, after exclusion, any pa- rental attention or ciire. Blood-discs, each magnified 300 diameters linear, a, Man ; b. Musk-deer ; c, Goose; d. Crocodile ; e. Frog ; /, Siren ; g. Cod-fish ; h. Skate. In many respects Fishes typify the embryonic stages of develop- ment of the higher animals : they were the first created Myelence- phala; and, through a series of vast geological periods, as the Silurian, Devonian, and, perhaps, the Carboniferous, the sole representatives of the Vertebrated sub-kingdom in this planet. The second class of Vertebrated animals, called Reptilia, by no means presents so uniform a type as that of Fishes. Reptiles have more varied spheres of action. Some retain the form and breathe the element of fishes, living and moving in water during the whole or a part of their existence. The transition, indeed, from Fishes to these lowest Amphibian or Batrachian forms is so close and gra- dual, that whilst some true Reptiles* have passed for Fishes, the higher Fishesf have been classed with Amphibia, and even at the present day, a true Fish—the Protopterus or Lepidosiren—has been described, and by some naturalists is still regarded, as a Reptile. But no Reptile has dorsal parapophyses or the scapular arch articu- lated to the occiput, and every Reptile has two auricles to the heart, and the nasal canal communicating with the mouth. The Tortoises {Chelonia) and Lizards {Sauria) have locomotive members adapted for progression on dry land ; but they can only raise the body a little way, if at all, above the ground, and creep ratlier than walk : tlie Serpents {Ophidia) have no visible members, but move by the reaction of the entire trunk upon the ground, and so drag their belly through the dust of the earth: whence the name “Reptilia^’ (repo, to creep), given to this class of Vertebrate animals. * Larvae of naita I’arado.xa, called Frog-fisli. f Sharks and Hays, called “ Ampliihia nanles ” by Linnaeus.