NERVOUS SYSTEM OE FISHES. 179 or Plagiostome fishes. External to these tubercles the floor of the ventricle usually rises into a curved eminence with its convexity outwards; this is the ‘torus semicircularis’ of Haller* 62. w.) In the Carp, where the great physiologist first described and named them, they are large, and much curved : in general the ‘ tori ’ describe only a small portion of a circle ; and in some bony fish, as the Gar- pike, Loach, and Lump-fish, they are scarcely raised above the level of the floor of the ventricle. They are not developed in the Po- plyterus, the Lepidosiren or the higher Plagiostomes; and both tori and globuli are peculiar ichthyic developments in the ventricles of the optic lobes. The bottom of the optic ventricle anterior and external to the tori, is grey, and usually prominent {Jig. 52. v), with white fibres radiating through it to rise and expand upon the walls of the lobes. The optic lobes have almost coalesced in the Polypterus, Lepi- dosiren, Amblyopsis, Eel, and Loach ( Cobitis). Where they appear distinct externally, as in most osseous fishes, they are brought into mutual communication by one or two commissures, besides the so- called ‘ corpus callosum ; ’ the anterior ‘ commissura ti'ansversa ’ is shown in the Herring {Jig. 52. s); it crosses in front of the entry to the third ventricle, t protuberances {Jig. 55. n), separated below by the vascular (hypo- physial) floor of the third ventricle. In most osseous fishes the corresponding fibres of the prepyramidal tracts swell out suddenly, beneatli the optic lobes, into two protuberant well-defined oval Lix. t. iii. p. 201. It is analogous to, but not, as Gottsche supposes, homolo- gous with, the ‘ thalamus opticus ’ of the Mammalian l)rain. It is neither analogous to nor homologous with the ‘corpus striatum.’ t Cuvier affirms (xxin. t. i. p. ,S16.) that this “necessarily answers to the an- terior commissure of the cerebrum ; ” but it has only a remote analogy with it, in so far as the mechanism of the whole mesencephalon of Osseous Fishes resembles that of the cerebrum in Mammals, whilst the true homology of the mesencephalon does not extend beyond the parts immediately surrounding the third ventricle and the ‘ iter to the fourth in the Mammalian cerebrum. Base of brain ; Cod. In the Myxine and Lepidosiren the prepyramidal fibres curve sud- denly forwards and upwards be- fore expanding into the floor and sides of the third ventricle, and they thus form a small protube- rance beneath the basis of the optic lobes {Jig. 54. n). In the Shark the same columns swell out laterally and form two small N 2