290 LECTURE XII. into numerous folds, which are transverse in the Cod and Salmon*, oblique in the Mackerel, and longitudinal in some other fishes. In the osseous fishes that retain and hatch their ova the stroma does not extend to the posterior part of the ovarian sac, but this serves as a kind of uterus, and contains an abundant albuminous secretion at the season of the internal incubation. The viviparous Blenny (Zoarces), the Anableps, the Poecilia, and some Siluroids are ex- amples of ovo-vivipax’ous osseous fishes, and at the same time manifest naturally, what occurs as a rare adnormality in higher Ver- tebrates, viz. ovarian gestation. In the Plaice and other Pleuro- nectidae the parallelism between the male and female organs is so close, that the ovaria also escape from the abdomen, and become lodged in greater or less proportion in sub-cutaneous scrotal cavities above the basis of the anal fin. I In the Lamprey the short and narrow lateral infundibuliform passages behind the rectum, into which the ureters open, and which terminate in the peritoneal outlets {Jig- 74. e, 1), have been compared to short oviducts. In the Sturgeon actual oviducts are continued from the ureters forward, which open by wide infundibular apertures, comparable to the ‘ morsus diaboli’ of anthropotomy, into the general peritoneal cavity, and receive the ripe ova as they burst from the ovarium. The urine is prevented from regurgitation into the serous cavity through the same passage, by a valve which only allows the passage of the ova backwards into the common uro-genital duct. The higher grade of the sexual organisation of the female Plagiostome, as compared with the cartilaginous Ganoid fish, is ma- nifested chiefly by modification of the oviducts ; they are always two in number, and distinct from one end to the other, but are brought into close proximity, or coalesce at both ends: they are always distinct from the ureters, which terminate on the prominent urethral clitoris, between the oviducal outlets. Different parts of the oviducts are modified, moreover, for special functions, superadded to that of efihcting the safe transit of the generative product. The ovaria of Plagiostomes {Jig. 75. a) are relatively much smaller than in other fishes, of a more compact form, and confined to the fore part of the abdominal cavity: they are sometimes blended into a single body. The stroma is not spread over the walls of a cavity, but is collected into a loose cellular mass, circumscribed by a fibrous membrane, and suspended by a duplicature of peritoneum to the dorsal parietes of the abdomen, at the sides of the oesophagus. The ova are much fewer in number than in the ‘roe’ of osseous fishes, and are seen in different * In the Salmon the free surface of the strema is exposed. •f XLIII. V. pi. 4. fig. 1.