220 lecture IX. _five, or six sides, Myliohates,Jig. 60.* The cone is the most com- mon form in fishes: such teeth may be slender, sharp-pointed, and so minute, numerous, and closely aggregated, as to resemble the plush or pile of velvet; these are called ‘ villiform teeth {dentes villiformes, dents en velours\)\ all the teeth of the Perch are of this kind : when the teeth are equally fine and Jaws and teeth; Myliobates. numerous, but longer, they are called ‘ ciliiform ’ {dentes ciliiformes^ : when the teeth are similar to, but rather stronger than these, they are called ‘setiform {dentes seti- formes, dents en brosse): conical teeth, as close set and sharp pointed as the villiform teeth, but of larger size, are called ‘ rasp- teeth’ {dentes radidiform.es, dents en rape or en Gardes')-, the Pike presents such teeth on the back part of the vomer : the teeth of the Sheat-fish {Silurus glanis) present all the gradations between the villiform and raduliform types. Setiform teeth are com- mon in the fishes thence called ChEetodonts|; in the genus Citharina they bifurcate at their free extremities ; in the genus Platax they end there in three diverging points (V, pi. 1), and the cone here merges into the long and slender cylinder. Sometimes the cone is compressed into a slender trenchant blade : and this maybe pointed and recurved, as in Murcena (V, pi. 56, fig, 4.) ; or barbed, as in Trichiurus (V, pi. \,fig 8.), and some other Scomberoids ; or it may be bent upon itself, like a tenterhook, as in the fishes thence called Goniodonts.§ In the Bonito may be perceived a progressive thickening of the base of the conical teeth; and this being combined in other predatory fishes with increased size and recurved direction, they then resemble the laniary or canine teeth of carnivorous quadrupeds, as we see in the large teeth of the Pike. The anterior diverging grappling teeth of the wolf-fish (V, pi. 60.) form stronger cones; and by progressive blunting, flattening, and expansion of the apex, observable in different fishes, the cone by degrees changes to the thick and short cylinder, such as is seen in the back teeth of the wolf-fish (V, pi. 61.), and in similar grinding and crushing teeth in other genera, whether phytiphagous, or feeders on crustaceous and testaceous animals. The grinding surface of these short cylindrical teeth may be convex, as in the Sheep’s-head Fish {Sargtis, V, pi. l,fiff- 13.); or flattened, as in the pharyngeal teeth of • See V. pi. 25. 49. I The French terms are those used by Cuvier and Valenciennes in xxiii. passim. ^ Xalrr], bristle ; oSoi/s, tooth. § rwvla, an angle; oSovs, a tooth.