f LECTURE X. fish, the Singio, beyond the cranium, backwards beneath the dorsal inyocommata upon the neural arches of the vertebra3 to near the end of the tail, where they terminate in blind ends. The inner tunic of the sacs is a delicate vascular membrane, supplied by a continuation of the posterior branchial artery. The position of the palatal opening of the sac, in relation to the lamince of the second and third arches, is such that water can with difficulty penetrate them, and they are usually found to contain air. They are not, however, the homologues of the air-bladder or of lungs, though they are analogous to the latter in function. By this extreme modification of the opercular gill the Singio (to which the generic name Saccohranclius is given by Cuvier) is enabled to travel on land to a great distance from its native rivers or marshes, and, like the Cuchia, is remarkable for surviving the infliction of severe wounds.* In most fishes a rich development of follicles on the walls of the gill-chamber supplies the branchial machinery with a lubricating mucus. ■ ARTERIES. The first structure most Avorthy of notice, in connection with this system, is the vascular body already alluded to under the name of ‘ pseudobranchia.’ Mormyrus, Cobitis, Silurus, Gymnotus, Mui-ce- nophis, and Murcena are examples of the few genera in which it lias not been detected. In almost all other osseous fishes it is present, situated on each side of the head, in advance of the dorsal end of the first biserial gill, under the form either of a small exposed roAv of : vascular filaments, like a uniserial gill (as in all Sciienoids and many oi\iQ,v Acanthopteri, i\\QPleuronectid(S, and t\\QLepidosteus{fig.'10.'R)-, I or, as a vaso-ganglionic body, composed of parallel vascular lobes, and covered by the membrane of the branchial chamber (as in Esox, Cy- ' prinus, Gadus, Jig. 69. r). In both cases the vein or efferent vessel ^ of the pseudobranchia becomes the ophthalmic artery (ib. k), and the I choroid ‘ vaso-ganglion,’ when present, is developed from it. The Stur- I geon, like the Lepidosteus and Lepidosiren, has a uniserial opercular j gill, the homologue of the first so-called ‘ half-gill ’ of thePlagiostomes. But, besides this. Von Baer discovered, on the anterior wall of the ‘ spiracular canal,’ a small vascular lamellate body, Avhich is the * ■ true pseudobranchia. It receives arteinalised blood by a vessel sent i off from the vein of the first biserial gill; which blood, after being subdivided amongst the innumerable pinnatifid capillaries of the [ pseudobranchia, is collected again into the efferent vessel of that r ♦ CXVII. I