244 LECTURE IX. remarkably long and slender in Scicena, Upeneus, Lates nohilis, and in the Bonito, the Tunny, and other ScombridcB. The bile is some- times conveyed directly into the gall-bladder by hepato-cystic ducts, and thence by a cystic duct into the duodenum (Wolf-fish, Erythrinus, Lepidosiren) : or it is conveyed by a single hepatic duct, formed by the union of several branches from the liver (^Zygcena^ where the duct is very long): or by two hepatic ducts opening separately into the intestine, as in Pristis: or an hepatic duct from the left lobe joins a cystic duct from the bladder, receiving the gall from the right lobe, and the secretion is conveyed by a ‘ductus communis choledo- chus ’ into the duodenum, as in Pimelodus: or the bile is conveyed to the duodenum partly by a cystic duct and partly by a distinct hepatic duct, as in the Salmon, in which the latter dilates before it terminates. In the Lophius three hepatic ducts join the very long cystic, which duct sometimes dilates where it receives them. In the Turbot I found numerous hepatic ducts, some of which communicated with different parts of the cystic duct, and four opened into the dilated termination of the ductus communis. (Prep. 811. A.) In the Galeus the cystic duct runs some way through the substance of the liver, and sometimes between the tunics of the pyloric canal of the stomach, before it enters the commencement of the wide intestine, near the beginning of the spiral valve. The gall-duct in the Sturgeon and Planirostra {Jig. 61.) terminates at a greater distance above the valvular intestine. The ordinary position of the entry of the bile into the alimentary canal in Osseous Fishes is at the commencement of the small intestine near the pylorus. The terminal orifice of the gall-duct is often sujiported on a papilla, as in the Sturgeon, the Skate, and the Labrax lupus. In the Bream I found the short cystic duct opening into the fore-jiart of the cardiac portion of the stomach. In most Osseous Fishes the intestine buds out at its commencement into long and slender pouches, or cteca, into which it appears that the food never enters, and which, therefore, increase the direct secreting surface of the alimentary tract, over and above the extent of the mechanism for pounding and propelling the chyme, or of the vascular surface which selects and absorbs the chyle. By a very gradual series of changes of these ciecal processes, within the limits of the class of Fishes, we are led to recognise them as homologous with the conglomerate gland called ‘ pancreas ’ in Man. The secre- tion of the rudimental representatives of this gland is so like the fluid which the ordinary mucous surface of the intestine eliminates and sets free from its capillary system, that conditions of the ordi- nary alimentary tract exist in some fishes which render needless the development of the special accessory surfaces. The Dermopteri sliovf no trace of pancreas : their whole digestive canal is simple ; the whole