282 LECTURE XI. RENAL STSTEM. Ill all Vertebrates an excretory organ is very early developed in the form of a tube, extending from each side of the cloaca forwards, along the dorsal region of the abdomen, close to the spine, where it communicates with a number of short slender blind tubes placed at right angles to it ; the longitudinal trunk-tube serving as the ex- cretory duct of the shorter transverse secerning coeca. These glands are transitory in tlie air-breathing Vertebrates, and are called, from their discoverer, ‘ corpora Wolffiana they are persistent in fishes*; and are called ‘ kidneys: ’ in both they ai’e renal organs and secrete urine. A slightly opaque, slender, elongated glandular body, in the situation marked A in 46., has appeared to me to represent the renal organ in the Branchiostoma. The structure of this organ is more obvious in the Myxinoids: it is double: each long duct, as it extends from the cloaca through the abdominal cavity, sends off, at regular but distant intervals from its outer side, a short wide tube, Avhich communicates by a narrow opening with a blind sac. At the bottom of this sac or caecum there is a small vaso-ganglion, free on all sides save that by which the vessels enter and quit it f : there are no uriniferous tubes in this ‘ placentula; ’ the contents of the caecum must react through its thin parietes, and those of the capillaries with which it is in contact, upon the blood in those capillaries, and ex- tract therefrom the azotized uric excretion. Analogous vascular bodies, formed chiefly by convoluted tufts of arterial capillaries, are present in the Wolffian bodies of Mammals, and in the persistent renal organs of all Vertebrates. They are called, after their discoverer, ‘ Malpighian corpuscles,’ and Mr. Bowman | has admirably shown how the uriniferous tubes take their rise from these vascular coiqms- cles, viz. by a sacciform blind beginning applied over the vascular placentule or tuft. The combined secerning caeca and vaso-ganglia form in the Sand- prides and Lampreys § a continuous narrow elongated gland, which extends in the former {Amrnocetes) throughout the abdomen, in the latter {Petrornyzon) along the posterior two-thirds : in both con- fined to the dorsal part of the cavity. The ureters (y?y. 74. It) open into the short canal (ib. Z), leading to the papillary production of the peritoneal outlets close to the anus. | » cxxxvii. ii. p. 314. f xxi. 1841, p. 13. | exxv. § In the Petrornyzon marinus the diameter of the tubuli uriniferi is jJ^lh of an incli, that of the capillaries of the kidneys being -j^th of an inch. II XX. iv. pi. 56. fig. 1. e.