183 NERVOUS SYSTEM OF FISHES. equals the cerebellum in size, but is less than the optic lobes in the Perch and Bream ; it equals the optic lobes, but is less than the cerebellum in the Eel; in the Stickleback and Gurnard the prosencephalon exceeds the cerebellum; stiU more so in the Lepidosteus, but is less than the optic lobes ; in the Lucioperca, the Amblyopsis, and the Skate, neither the cerebellum nor the optic lobes are so large as the prosencephalon; in the large Sharks their united size scarcely equals that of the prosen- cephalon ; and in the Salamandroid Polypterus and the Lepidosiren the prosencephalic lobes surpass all the rest of the brain, and manifest their true cerebral character and importance. In the Amblyopsis the relative magnitude of the prosencephalon is due to the diminution of the optic lobes in that blind fish; in the Plagiostomes it is due to absolute development; as it is, also, in the Polypterus and Lepido- siren, where the prosencephalon presents the closest similarity in form and structure to that division of the brain in the Batrachian Reptiles; each lobe, for example, is elongated in the axis of the skull, and is of a subcompressed oval form, and has a large ‘ lateral ventricle ’ in its interior in the Lepidosiren {fig. 54. Iv.) In the Skate the prosencephala coalesce into a subdepressed transversely elongated mass, their essential distinction being indicated by a mere superficial medianfissure; in the Carcharias {fig. 55. p.), the prosencephalon forms an almost globular mass, with scarcely a trace of a median fissure. Amongst bony fishes the prosencephalic lobes are more or less confluent in Lucio- perca sandra, Trachinus draco, Sargus, Mullus, Scomber tra- chinus, Belone, Clupea harengus, and Clupea sprattus ; they appear as distinct symmetrical spheroids in most other fishes, their union being reduced to a small transverse medullary band (prosencephalic com- missure, 52. ij*). The symmetrical character of the prosence- phala, as of the optic lobes, is wanting in most Pleuronectidce. The grey vascular neurine forms the greatest part of the prosence- phalon in most osseous fishes; the white fibres radiate into this substance, and rarely appear on any part of the exterior surface; the white neurine, however, predominates in the Plagiostomes and Lepido- siren. As a rule, the prosencephalic lobes are solid; but the preparation of the brain of Carcharias (No. 1310, A.) shows a deep ventricular fis- sure at the anterior andunder partof the prosencephalon, with avascular * Carus well recognises the homology of this commissure with that of the corpus striatum, called anterior commissure’ in the human brain (i. p 2-1.). ^ Brain of Shark, Carcharias.