256 LECTURE X. able conduits. The serous layer of the pericardium is defended by an outer aponeurotic coat in Osseous Fishes and Plagiostomes, Avhicli adheres to the surrounding parts. In the Sturgeon, Wolf-fish, Loach and Murtena, short fil^rous bands supporting vessels pass from different parts of the pericardium to the sui'face of the heart: in most other fishes the heart hangs freely except at the two opposite poles, viz., where the sinus communicates with the auricle, and where the bulbus arteriosus is continued into the branchial artery. In the Plagiostomes the sinus itself is situated within the peri- cardium ; but in Osseous Fishes between the layers of the posterior aponeurotic partition between it and the abdomen. The heart is situated below the hind-part of the gills, and, as these are more concentrated in the head in all Fishes above the Dermopteri, so the position of the heart is more advanced {Jig. 61. e). In the Pla- giostomes, the Sturgeons, the Pei’ch, the Angler {Lophius, prep. 904.), and the Sun-fish {Orthagoriscus, prep. 905.), the orifice by which the great sinus communicates with the auricle is guarded by two semilunar valves ; but these are far from being constant in Osseous Fishes. The auricle, when distended, is larger in proportion to the ventricle in Fishes than in higher Vertebrates. Its relative position to the ventricle varies in different species, and permanently re- presents as many similar variations displayed temporarily during the course of the development of the heart in higher Vertebrates ; thus in the Scorpcena scrofa, as in the Myxinoids, the auricle is posterior to and in the same longitudinal line with the ventricle: in the Carp, Sole, and Eel, it has advanced to the same transverse line, on the dorsal and left side of the ventricle: in most Osseous Fishes, the Ganoids, {jig. 70, B.),the Sturionidcn {Jig- 61.it extends more forward, dorsad of both ventricle and bulbus arteriosus, and the heart, including the venous sinus, is now bent into a sigmoid form. The walls of the auricle are membranous, with thin muscular fasciculi decussating and forming an open network; but these are closer and stronger in the Sun-fish, Sturgeons, and Plagiostomes. The cavity is simple, but its inner surface is much fasciculated in the Sun-fish and Sturgeon, where the ends of the valves of the sinus are attached to the strongest muscular bands. Only in the Lepidosiren is there any vestige of a septum, and this is reticulate. The auricle communicates by a single orifice, commonly with the dorsal or the anterior part of the ventricle : this is guarded usually by two free semilunar valves; but in the Sturgeon, their margins and their surface next the ventricle are at- tached to numerous ‘ chordai tendineae.’ In the Orthagoriscus the auricular aperture is guarded by four semilunar valves, the two smaller ones being placed at right angles with and on the auricular side of the two larger and normal valves: their margins are free.