32 LECTURE II. periosteum is that membrane in which the vascular system of a bone undergoes the amount of subdivision which reduces its capillaries to the dimensions suited for penetrating the pores leading to the vascular and Haversian canals. These preparations of the bones of young pigs fed with madder (Nos. 190 — 201. Phys. Series), and those of young birds, showing artificial perforations (Nos. 188, 189.), illustrate some experiments by Hunter on the growth of bone. The strong afl&nity of phosphate of lime for the colouring matter of the Rubia tinctorum, which, when taken as food, passes into the plasma of the circulating fluids and combines with the phosphates of lime with which that fluid comes in contact, has been supposed to throw some clear light upon the growth of bone. AU the phosphate of lime which is deposited in tooth or bone, whilst the madder is in the system, is deeply tinged by it, and Hunter found that the exterior layers of the growing bone of a young pig which had been fed a fortnight on madder were most strongly coloured. But he observed also in another young pig similarly fed, but killed a fortnight after the madder had been omitted from its food, that “ the exterior of the bones was of the natural colour, but the interior red.” (xi. p. 75.) The inference deduced was, that a new layer of bone, during the absence of madder from the circulating system, had been formed, uncoloured, on the exterior surface. Mr. Gibson endeavoured to invalidate the conclusion, by hinting that the colouring matter might have been removed from the pre- viously stained bone by the serum of the blood, which fluid he be- lieved to have a greater affinity for the dye than phosphate of lime had; but Mr. Paget has proved by experiment that the phos- phates have actually the stronger affinity for the dye. The well-known fact that the phosphates on every internal or external surface of the bone, which is exposed to the current of the dye-charged plasma, attract the dye, by no means invalidates the con- clusions from the ingenious experiments of Hunter ; for the quantity of colour so imbibed by the previously and completely formed bone is always much less than that which the growing bone receives from the phosphates deposited during the iiresence of madder in the cir- culating system. Hunter’s experiments, therefore, coincide with those of Du Hamel, made by encompassing shafts of growing bones with rings of wire, in proving that the increase in circumference is due to growth at the periphery beneath the periosteum, such rings having been found, after a certain period of growth, in the cavity of the enlarged bone. The growth in length is, however, much more active; and this, in