198 LECTURE VIII. than in that nerve in higher Vertebrata, according to Bidder and Volkmann : which illustrates the progressive character of the indivi- dualisation (selbsstandigkeit) of the great sympathetic. The vagus is represented in the Branchiostoma by a branch .sent from the fifth to the pharynx. In the Myxine its origin is close to that of the fifth. The peculiar erectile palatal organ of the Cypri- noids is wholly, and the peculiar electric organs of the Torpedo are, in great part, supplied by the very remarkable and characteristic vagal nerve of fishes. The first spinal nerve rises usually by two roots, the dorsal one having a ganglion, rarely by non-ganglionic roots exclusively from the prepyramidal tracts : it usually emerges between the ex-occipital and the atlas, and divides into a small dorsal and a larger ventral branch: this communicates with the ventral branch of the next spinal nerve, and supplies the pectoral fin-muscles, the subcoradoideus, and the sterno-hyoideus (fiA. it is called ‘ hypoglossal nerve ’ by some Ichthyotomists. Each of the true spinal nerves has a dorsal or sensory, and a ventral or motory origin: sometimes each rises by a single root; sometimes, as in the Cod, by two or more roots. Both sensory and motoiy roots are long in most fishes: the sensory root is the largest, arises by more filaments, and further back than the motory roots in the Sturgeon. In most Osseous Fishes one dorsal root goes to form the dorsal branch of the spinal nerve, and the other dorsal root joins the ventral branch of the same nerve: sometimes the ganglion is formed on the dorsal root of the dorsal branch, as in the Cod ; more com- monly upon the whole sensory oidgin of the nerve, where it emerges from the neural canal. In some fishes (Bream and Gar-pike) the ganglions on the dorsal root are situated in the spinal canal: more commonly (as in the Cod, the Ling, the Sander) the ganglions are external to the spinal canal. In both cases the nerve is increased in size beyond the ganglion and the union of the ventral root. This is well seen in the Skate, in which the ganglions are situated beyond the holes of emergence, and the junction of the two roots takes place quite exterior to the neural canal.* The connection of the nerve-i’oots with the myelon is weaker in fishes than in air-breathing animals: it is so easily broken in the Dermopteri, as to have led to a denial of its existence, f The best illustration of the peculiar combination of the dorsal and ventral * i.xxvn. ii. p. 479. f LIV. pl.x.