THE SKELETON. 33 the long bones of Mammalia, takes place chiefly at the cartilaginous ends beneath the epiphyses. This is proved by boring holes, or intro- ducing shots, at definite distances in the diaphyses of growing bones, and examining the perforations a week or a fortnight after the ex- periments. The interval between the holes next the ends of the bone is found much increased, whilst that between those nearer the middle is but little, if at all, changed. All these experiments concur to prove that the growth of a bone is not by uniform and general extension, but by accelerated increase at particular parts. But extension of parts is not the sole process which takes place in the growth of bone : to adapt the bone to its specific office changes are wrought in it by the absorption of parts previously formed, espe- cially in the higher classes of Vertebrata. In fishes we observe a simple unmodified increase; but in some species, ossification com- mences at the periphery of the animal mould or basis, and is always limited to a thin outer crust of the bone, the rest remaining carti- laginous or gelatinous. In some of the higher cartilaginous fishes, for example, an osseous crust is formed upon the periphery of certain cartilages, in the form of prisms, which contain oval calcigerous cells, but without conspieuous radiated tubes. Such bones in a dried or fossil state seem to have had large internal or medullary cavities ; but they were filled by the unossified animal basis. To whatever extent the bone of a fish is originally ossified, such it remains, and con- sequently most of the bones of fishes are solid or spongy in their interior. The bones of the Chelonia are likewise solid ; a coarse diploe fills the interior of the long bones of the extremities; and we find a similar structure in the bones of the Cetacea and of the Seal tribe. Among terrestrial mammals the inactive Sloths and their great ^ extinct congeners, the Megatherium and Mylodon (xii. p. 83.), have the long bones of the extremities solid; whilst the agile Ru- minant shows each diaphysis in the condition of the hollow column, both the strength and lightness of the bones being increased by tlie progressive absorption of the first-formed substance, as new bone is de- posited from without. The condition which is illustrated by this section of the femur of the Nilghau (Prep. 856 c), is common, in fact, to the long bones of all land mammals, except the Tardigrades above specified. The Saurian and most of the Batrachian reptiles have likewise tlie cavity in each long bone, called “ medullary,” from its containing a cellular tissue filled by a fine, light, oily matter or marrow. Even the ribs of the large Ophidians have their medullary cavities: and the bodies of the vertebra) of some lizards and of the gi’eat extinct Poikilopleuron arc similarly excavated. The medullary cavities of the VOL. II. v>