216 LECTURE VIII. the recent and vigorous fish. Matteucci ascertained that, during the discharge, the nerves of the organ were not traversed by any electric current. Humboldt has given a lively narrative of the mode of capture of the Gymnoti, employed by the Indians of South America. They rouse the Gymnoti by driving horses and mules into the ponds which those fish inhabit, and harpoon them when they have ex- hausted their electricity upon the unhappy quadrupeds ; “ I wished,” says Humboldt, “ that a clever artist could have depicted the most animated period of the attack: the groups of Indians surrounding the pond, the horses with their manes erect and eyeballs wild with pain and fright, striving to escape from the electric storm which they had roused, and driven back by the shouts and long whips of the excited Indians: the livid yellow eels, like great water-snakes, swimming near the surface and pursuing their enemy: all these objects presented a most picturesque and exciting ‘ ensemble.’ In less than five minutes two horses were killed : the eel, being more than five feet in length, glides beneath the body of the horse and discharges the whole length of its electric organ: it attacks at the same time the heart, the digestive viscera, and, above all, the gastric plexus of nerves. I thought the scene would have a tragic termi- nation, and expected to see most of the quadrupeds killed ; but the Indians assured me the fishing would soon be finished, and that only the first attack of the Gymnoti was really formidable. In fact, after the conflict had lasted a quarter of an hour, the mules and horses ap- peared less alarmed ; they no longer erected their manes, and their eyes expressed less pain and terror ; One no longer saw them struck down in the water ; and the eels, instead of swimming to the attack, retreated from their assailants and approached the shore.” The Indians now began to use their missiles; and by means of the long cord attached to the harpoon, jerked the fish out of the water with- out receiving any shock so long as the cord was dry.* All the circumstances narrated by the celebrated philosopher, establish the close analogy between the Gymnotus and Torpedo in the vital phenomena attending the exercise of their extraordinary means of offence. The exercise is voluntary and exhaustive of the nervous energy ; like voluntary muscular effort, it needs repose and nourishment to produce a fresh accumulation. I was so fortunate as to witness the experiments performed by Professor Faraday on the large Gymnotus which was so long pre- served alive at the ‘ Adelaide Gallery ’ in London. That the most cv. p 55.