169 MUSCULAR SYSTEM OF FISHES. along the interspaces of the dorsal fins in the Cod : similar muscles extend from the last dorsal to the caudal fin (u) in the Perch; and ‘ infra-carinales’ (v) extend from the anal to the caudal along the keel of the tail. In the Gymnotus the supra-carinales form a single pair, ■which extends from the occiput to the end of the tail. The mo- dified cranio-dermal spines, which constitute the oval sucking-disc of the Remora, have a complex series of minute muscles, ■which raise or depress the transverse lattice-work ; and thus become the means of giving the little feeble fish all the advantage of the rapid course of the whale or the ship to which it may have attached itself. The muscular and membranous webs of the coalesced pectorals and ventrals of the Lump-fish, form a sucker on the opposite surface of the body, by which it may safely anchor itself to the rock, in the midst of the turbulent surf or storm-tossed breaker. The muscles of the gills, the eyeball, the air-bladder, and other special organs will be described with the parts they move. The muscular tissue (myonine) of fishes is usually colourless, often opaline, or yellowish ; white when boiled: the muscles of the pectoral fins of the Sturgeon and Shark are, however, deeper coloured than the others ; and most of the muscles of the Tunny are red, like those of the warm-blooded classes. The want of colour relates to the com- paratively small proportion of red blood circulated through the muscular system’^ ; and to the smaller proportion of red-particles in the blood of fishes: the exceptions cited seem to depend on increased circulation with great energy of action ; and, in the Bonito and Tunny, with a greater quantity of blood and a higher temperature than in other fishes. The deep orange colour of the flesh of the Salmon and Char depends on a peculiar oil diffused through the cellular sheaths of the fibres. The muscular fasciculi of Fishes are usually short and simple: and very rarely converge to be inserted by tendinous chords.^ Tlie proportion of myonine is greater in fishes than in other Ver- tebrata; the irritability of its fibres is considerable, and is long retained. Fishermen take advantage of this property, and induce rigid muscular contraction, long after the usual signs of life have disappeared, by transverse cuts and immersion of the muscles in cold water: this operation, by avInch the firmness and specific gravity of the muscular tissue are increased, is called ‘ crimping.’ There are many and great modifications of the muscular system of Fishes, especially in the aberrant orders at the two extremes of the class: Carus has illustrated some of these in the Plagiostomes (xlui. t I- XLVIII. pp. 4. 16. 1 XLIX, p. 3.