NEKVOUS SYSTEM OF FISHES. 211 * I.XXI11. p. 1245. brae enumerated atp. 102., as entering into the formationof the cham- ber of the acoustic organ. In the Herring a tubular prolongation of the fore part of the air-bladder advances to the basi-occipital, and bifur- cates ; each branch penetrates the side of the base of the skull, again bifurcates, and terminates in two blind sacs, which are in contact with similar cffical processes of the labyrinth. In the Holocentrum and Sargus, ciecal processes of the swim-bladder also diverge, to attach themselves to the membrane closing the part of the otocrane con- taining the sac of the great otolite. In Osseous Fishes the sonorous vibrations of their liquid element is communicated by the medium of the solid parts of their body, and in some species, also, through the vibrations of the air in the air-bladder, to the liquid contents of the labyrinth. In the Plagiostomous Fishes the resonance in the walls of their cartilaginous cranium is less than in the bony skull of ordinary fishes; but the labyi’inth is wholly inclosed in the cartilage; and a further compensation is made by the prolongation of its chamber to the surface of the body in some, and by a similar prolongation of the membranous labyrinth itself in others. The position of the external orifices on the top of the head in the Skate tribe, may relate to the commonly prone position of these fiat fishes at the bottom of the sea. Professor Muller con- cludes, from his experiments, “ that the air-bladder in fishes, in addition to other uses, serves the purpose of increasing by resonance the intensity of the sonorous undulations communicated from water to the body of the fish.” * The vibrations thus communicated to the peri- and endo-lymph of the labyrinth are doubtless made to beat more strongly upon the delicate extremities of the acoustic nerve, in osseous fishes, by their effect upon the suspended otolites : and it will be observed, that the chief portions of the nerve expand upon those chambers of the vestibule, which contain the otolites. The large size of the organ of hearing, and especially that of the hard otolites, also relate to the medium through which the sonorous vibrations are pro- pagated to the fish, and to the mode in which they are transmitted to the organ ; in like manner as the eyeballs are expanded, in order to take in the utmost possible amount of light. The contracted en- cephalon harmonises with and sufiices for the sensations and volitions, and the simple series of ideas daily repeated in the monotonous ex- istence of the scaled inhabitants of the waters. To say that the fish’s ears and eyes were made enormous in order to strike strongly on its dull brain — that the development of the organs of sense has been exag- gerated to compensate for the defective size of their nervous centres —implies a want of due appreciation of the beautiful adjustment of the