106 LECTURE V. joint. In tlie Parrot-fishes and Diodons the articulation is quite analogous to that of the mandible below with the tympanic pedicle. In the Salamandroid fishes it is a fixed suture. In the Shad the palatine articulates with the premaxillary as well as the maxillary. In the Mormyrus the palatines meet, and unite together at the median line. The posterior angle of the base of the palatine is attached, in the Cod, by short and strong ligaments to the prefrontal. The thin posterior and inner border of the bone is joined by liga- ment to the ento-pterygoid, and its outer angle is dovetailed into the pterygoid. The palatine contributes to form the fioor of the orbit and the roof of the mouth ; in many fishes it supports teeth, but is eden- tulous in the Cod. It varies much in form in different species; is slender and elongated in the wide-mouthed voracious fishes, as the Pike, and is short and broad in the broad-headed, small-mouthed fishes. The maxillary (hsemapophysis of nasal vertebra. Jig. 30. 21) is usually a small edentulous bone*, concealed in a fold of the skin between the palatine and premaxillary: it lies, in the Cod, posterior to and parallel with the premaxillary, which it resembles in form, but is longer and thinner in most osseous fishes: the expanded and bifurcate end of the maxillary is produced inwards rather than up- wards, and forms a socket on which the ascending or nasal process of the premaxillary glides ; a posterior tubercle at this end is attached to the palatine, and ligaments connect the same expanded end to the nasal, the turbinal, the vomer, and the premaxillary: the lower and hinder expanded end of the bone is attached by strong elastic liga- ment, in which a labial gristle is developed, to the coronoid process of the lower jaw. In the Salmon tribe the maxillary is joined to the hinder and lower end of the short premaxillary, forming with it a continuous arch, and it supports teeth; this normal and higher character of the maxillary j" prevails also in the Clupeoid fishes, and is here illustrated in the great Sudis {Jig. 36.). In the Plec- tognaihi (Globe-fish and File-fish), the )■/ maxillaries coalesce wholly or in part with the premaxillaries. In the Lepidosteus the contrary condition prevails : the premax- illary and maxillary bones constitute, in- deed, a single dentigerous arch or border of the upper jaw, but are subdivided Disarticulated bones of palato- maxillary arch {Arapaima gtRos). * Tlic Os mystuccum of iclitliyotomists. ■(■ Cuvier first recognised tlic special limnology of the ‘ os niyslacciim by ol>- serving its modifications in the salmon.