272 LECTURE XI. peritoneum to the hinder end or bend of the stomach, or to the beginning of the intestine : it is of variable but commonly triangular shape ; of a deep red or brown-red colour, and soft and spongy: the venous cells of which it is chiefly composed are filled with granular corpuscles. LECTUKE XL PNEUMATIC AND RENAL ORGANS. AIR-BLADDER. The organ so denominated is found, in most osseous fishes, in the form of an elongated bladder, tensely filled by air, extending along the back of the abdomen, between the kidneys and the chylopoietic viscera, and sometimes {^Gymnotus, Ophiocephalus, Coins) beneath the caudal vertebrje to near the end of the tail. It is seldom bifur- cated (as we see it in some species of Diodon, Tetrodon, Dacty- lopterus, Pimelodus, Prionotus); still more seldom divided length- wise into two bladders {Arms, Gagora, Polypterus, Lepidosiren, fig.'ll. p,p) : it is oftener divided crosswise into two compartments, which intercommunicate by a contracted orifice {CyprinidcB, fig. 58. p q, Charaeinidce); or are quite separate {Bagrus filamentosus, Gymnotus equilahiatus.) In the Siluroid genus Pangasius the air- bladder is divided into four longitudinally succeeding portions. In the Trigla hirundo the swim-bladder is notched anteriorly by one indent, and posteriorly by two indents, from which notches septa project inwards : sometimes the air-bladder is divided partially, both lengthwise and crosswise {Cobitis fossilis, Auchenipterus furcatus, some species of Pimelodus). Sometimes the bladder sends forwards two blind processes from its forepart {Sphyrcena barracuda, Trigla cuculus, Conodon antillanus, some species of Micropogon and Oto- lithus) ; sometimes from its hind part {Cayitliaris vulgaris, Lethrinus atlanticus, Ileliases insolatus, some species of Sillago, Mcena, and Smaris) ; sometimes from both ends {Dules maculatus, Pimelipterus altipennis, Lactarius delicatulus). The Bearded Umbilna has three slender cascal processes from each side of its air-bladder ; the allied