76 LECTURE IV. The hyoid arch in the Squatina, as in most other Plagiostomes, con- sists of two long and strong lateral pieces or cerato-hyoids {cornua of Anthropotomy), and a median flattened symmetrical piece, the basi- hyoid, {corpus ossis hyoidei) below. Short cartilaginous rays extend outwards from the back part of the cornua, supporting the outer mem- branous wall of the branchial sac : these answer to the branchiostegal rays in osseous fishes, and support the diverging appendage or limb of the hyoidean arch. But the fold of integument in which they project is not libex'ated, and is continuous with that supported by the opercular rays from the tympanic pedicle. Five branchial arches succeed the hyoidean; but are suspended, as in the Lamprey, from the sides of the anterior vertebrae of the trunk. The Cestracion, so interesting from its early introduction into the seas of this planet, is not so far advanced in cranial development as is the more modern Squatina. In the existing species of the Australian seas {Cestracion Phillipi, v. pi. 10.), the cartilaginous basi-occipital retains a deep conical excavation, adapted to a corresponding one in the atlas, which cavity is consolidated by cartilage in the Squatina ; the original place of the extended anterior end of the chorda, along the middle of the posterior half of the basi-cranial cartilage, continues membranous, and the pituitary perforation is permanently closed by membrane only; the basal cartilage expands anterior to this, and comes into close connection with the maxillary arch, and is thence continued forwards, contracting to a point between the nasal capsules, which meet at the middle line above the symphysis of the upper jaw. The proper cranial cartilage is thinner than in the Squatina; the anterior or pineal fontanelle forms an extended membranous tract on the upper part of the cranium: the vertical ridges, which rise from the sides of this tract, extend forwards and outwards to support the nasal sacs, and are continued backwards, interrupted by a notch filled by membrane, to the posterior angular processes, which overhang the joint of the maxillo-hyoidean pedicle. The maxillary and mandibular arches are as simple as in the Squatina, but much stronger, since they support a series of massive grinding teeth, as well as pointed ones or laniaries. The rami of the lower jaw are confluent at the symphysis. The Skates and Rays have the skull movably articulated, as in Squatina, by two basilar condyles and an intervening space, to the axis.* The skull is flat and broad ; the upper wall merobranous for a greater or less extent, except in Narcine, where it is closed by • The basi-occipital also affords a small but distinct intermediate surface between the two large condyles in the Zygmna.