74 LECTURE IV. terior to tlie median ridge there is a small fossa, (in the young Squatina a foramen,) the last trace of the pituitary canal: the basal cartilage then expands to form the lower border of the groove which receives the palatine process or point of suspension of the palato- maxillary arch, and the cartilage then suddenly contracts, and is con- tinued forwards to form the vomerine anterior base of the cranial cavity. The fibro-membranous parietes of this cavity are every where covered with, or converted into, the same firm granular carti- lage as the base, save at the anterior and upper end, where a large fontanelle, closed by the primitive membrane, remains: the cartila- ginous walls are perforated by the exit of the cerebral nerves, and the spinal chord. The cranial cavity is not moulded upon the brain, but is of larger size; it communicates merely by the nervous and vascular foramina with the acoustic labyrinth, which is buried in the thick lateral cranial cartilage. This insulation of the ear-capsules from the brain-case is a high grade of development common to all the typical Plagiostomes : in the Chimserm the separation is only partial. The large pituitary de- pression, or ‘ sella,’ marked by a ridge across the fioor of the cavity, indicates the compartment between the orbits for the mesencephalon, and in front of this is the wide prosencephalic, or cerebral, compart- ment, which communicates by the two large foramina with the nasal cavities, and, in the dry skull, opens forwards by the wide persistent fontanelle. In the vertical lateral cartilaginous walls of the cranium we recognise the part representing the great ala of the sphenoid by the two perforations answering to the foramina oralia and rotunda for the exit of branches of the fifth pair of nerves. The orbital alo3 of the sphenoid are indicated by the foramina optica; the part cor- responding to the bones in osseous fishes, called by Cuvier “ frontaux anterieures,” by the olfactory foramina, and by their articulation with the palatine process of the maxillary arch. Two broad and thin car- tilaginous plates, from the upper and anterior walls of the cranium, support anteriorly the nasal sacs, and thence extend backwards and outwards over the sides of the anterior half of the cranium forming the roof of the orbits. Two longitudinal and vertical lidges, which rise from the posterior and lateral cranial parietes, extend outwards at both extremities in the form of strong triedral conical transverse processes. The anterior one forms the post-orbital process ; the pos- terior answers to the mastoid; between these is a long cavity lodging the temporal muscle, and beneath this the parallel articular cavity for the tympanic pedicle. The extreme point of the mastoid is per- forated by a mucous canal extending to the upper surface of the back part of the skull. The post-orbital processes touch, and some-