LECTUKE HI, 42 To eacli of these primary segments of the skeleton I shall, with Geoffroy St. Hilaire (xiv. ii.), apply the term “ vertebra : the word may seem to the anthropotomist to be used in a different or more extended sense than it is usually understood ; yet he is himself, unconsciously perhaps, in the habit of including in certain vertebrae of the human body, elements which he excludes from the idea in other natural segments of the same kind ; influenced by dif- ferences of proportion and coalescence, which are the most variable characters of a bone. Thus the rib of a cervical vexdebra is the “ pro- cessus transversus perforatus,” or the “radix anticusprocessus trans- versi vertebrae colli : ” whilst in the chest, it is “ costa,” or “ pars ossea costae.” (xm. 239. 250.) But the ulna is not the less an ulna in the horse, because it is small and anchylosed to the radius. The osteology of Man, therefore, cannot be fuUy or rightly under- stood until the type of which it is a modification is known, and the first step to this knowledge is the determination of the vertebral segments, or natural groups of bones, of which the myelencephalous skeleton consists. I define a vertebra, as one of those segments of the endo-skeleton which constitute the axis of the body, and the protecting canals of the nervous and vascular trunks: such a segment may also support di- verging appendages. Exclusive of these, it consists in its typical completeness, of the following parts or elements : c. A body or centrum. * n. Two neurapophyses. f p. Two parapophyses. J 2^1. Two pleurapophyses. § h. Two hcemapophyses. || ns. A neural spine. ^ hs. A haemal spine. ** zygapophysis r . • I diapophysis... p.arapophysis Cl zygapophysis C- neural spine neurapophysis pleurapopliysis haemapophysis H hsemal spine Ideal typical vertebra. • Greek, hentron, centre. Syn. Corpus vcrtehrcB^, Corps de vertdbre, Cuvier; 'Terliar-wirhel, Gurus; Wirhel-kdrper, German*; Cyclecd, Geoffrey; Cyclo-vertehral element. Grant. j Gr. neuron, nerve; and apophysis, a process of bone. Syn. Arcus posterior vertebra:, sen radices arcus posterioris. Dechplatten and Grundplatten, Carus. Bogen- stiicke des Riichenwirbels, Carus. Obere Wirbclbogen, Germ. Partie annulaire, Cuv. Ferial, Geof. Peri-vertebral elements. Grant. I Gr. para, trans, across; and apophysis. Syn. Radix prior seu antica processus. 1 The Latin synonyms are from Soemmerring’s Classical Anthropotomy, “ De .1.0.0 of Joho Mullor, W.goc, and mos. Gorman Zootomists, unless otherwise specified.