1]8 LECTURE V. the Plagiostome Cartilaginous Fishes it is not directly attached to its proper vertebra, the occiput, but is removed further hack, where we shall usually find it displaced in the higher Myelencephala, in order to allow of greater freedom to the movements of the head. The superior piece of the arch {stqira-scajmla, Jig. 30. 50) is bifurcate in the Cod, or consists of two short columnar bones, at- tached anteriorly, the one to the par-occipital, the other and shorter piece to the petrosal, and coalescing posteriorly at an acute angle, to form a slightly expanded disk, from which the second piece of the arch is suspended vertically. Tliis second piece, called scapula" {ih.5\) is a slender, straight, styliform bone terminating in a point below, and morticed into a groove on the upper and outer side of the lower and principal bone of the scapular arch. The supra-scapula and scapula together repre- sent the rib or pleurapophysis of the occipital vertebra; they are always confluent in the Siluroids. The lower bone, or liasmapophysis (coracoid, ib. 52), which completes the arch below, is commonly termed the ‘ clavicle’ (as by Spix, Geoffroy, Meckel and Agassiz); but I am induced to regard it as homologous with that bone, the coracoid, which progressively acquires a more constant and larger development in descending from Mammals down to Fishes, and which is manifestly a more essential part of the arch than the clavicle, since it contributes more or less of the surface of attachment for the radiated appendage, which the clavicle never does. By Cuvier the lijemapophysial portion of the occipital inverted arch in fishes is termed the ‘ humerus but it is unquestionably a part of the arch, and the most important part in the present class, in no member of which does it present the slightest approach to the character of a diverging appendage, such as the humerus essentially is, whenever it has an independent existence. By some Ichthyotomists the bone in question has received the special name of ‘ coenosteon.’ Whether viewed insulated, i. e, merely ichthyotomically, or by the light of the modifications of the sustaining arch of the pectoral member in higher Vertebrata, the essential nature of the bone in question was little likely to be understood: its general homology can only be appreciated by studying its relations to the general vertebrate skeleton in the lowest class, where vegetative repetition most prevails, and the fundamental type is least depai’ted from. The relation to the primary constituent segment of the skeleton being thus ascer- tained, the special homology of the bone is to be determined by tracing the modifications of the scapular arch in the ascending di- rection. The serial homologies of the hoemapophyses of the scapular arch are obviously with the cerato-hyoids, the mandible, the cartilages