236 LECTUllE IX. The muscular action of a fish’s stomach consists of vermicular contractions, creeping slowly in continuous succession from the cardia to the pylorus; and impressing a two-fold gyratory motion on the contents : so that, while some portions are proceeding to the pylorus, other portions are returning towards the cardia. More direct con- strictive and dilative movements occur, with intervals of repose, at both the orifices, the vital contraction being antagonised by pressure from within. The pylorus has the power, very evidently, of con- trolling that pressure, and only portions of completely comminuted and digested food (chyme) are permitted to pass into the intestine. The cardiac orifice appears to have less control over the contents of the stomach; coarser portions of the food from time to time return into the oesophagus, and are brought again within the sphere of the pharyngeal jaws, and subjected to their masticatory and commi- nuting operations. The fishes which afford the best evidence of this ruminating action are the Cyprinoids, (Carp, Tench, Bream,) caught after they have fed voraciously on the ground-bait previously laid in their feeding haunts to ensure the angler good sport. A Carp in this predicament, laid open, shows well and long the peristaltic movements of the alimentary canal; and the successive regurgitations of the gastric contents produce actions of the pharyngeal jaws as the half-bruised grains come into contact with them, and excite the singular tumefaction and subsidence of the irritable palate, as portions of the regurgitated food are pressed upon it. The Eel is, also, a good subject for studying the movements of the stomach j and, besides at the cardiac and pyloric orifices, the direct constrictive action of the circular fibres may be seen in this fish at the beginning of the sliort pyloric division ; regulating the passage of the food from the long cardiac sac. These observations throw light on the functions of the pharyngeal teeth in the predatory Fishes, (the Pike, for ex- ample,) in which one sometimes finds a recently swallowed fish in the stomach: it may show, for example, a few marks of the large mandi- bular canine teeth; but it has undergone no sub-division by the pharyngeal rasp-teeth. It would seem, at first sight, that these took no other part in the mechanical operations of digestion, than to aid in the act of swallowing : the analogy, however, of the ruminant or regurgitant function of the stomach of the Carp, suggests that the pharyngeal teeth take a more important share in digestion, and indicates the nature of their operations. As the gelatinous integu- ments and intermuscular aponeuroses of the swallowed fish are dis- solved by the gastric juice, masses of the myocommata become detached, and these fibrous portions are most probably carried by the regurgitating power of the stomach to the pharyngeal teeth.