DENTAL SYSTEM OF FISHES. 225 The true teeth of all Vertebrates consist, like bone, of an animal gelatinous basis, hardened by salts of lime, magnesia, and soda; the phosphates of lime predominating. Analyses of the teeth of the Pike, Carp, and Shark, will be found in V. pp. Ixiv. and 9.; and in lxxxv. The tubes which convey the capillary vessels through the substance of the osteo- and vaso-dentine of the teeth of fishes * were early re- cognised, on account of their comparatively large size ; as by Andre c. g., in the teeth of Acanthurus, and by Cuvier and Von Born in the teeth of the Wolf-fish and other species. Leeuwenhoek had, also, detected the much finer tubes of the peripheral dentine of the teeth of the Haddock. These ‘ dentinal tubuli ’ are given off" from tlie parietes of the vascular canals, and bend, divide, and subdivide rapidly in the hard basis-tissue of the interspaces of those canals in osteo-dentine (V. pi. 7.) ; the dentinal tubuli alone are found in true dentine, and they have a straighten and more parallel course, usually at right angles to the outer surface of the dentine (Y. pi. 7. and pi. 52. h). I give the name ‘ vaso-dentine ’ to that modification of the tissue in which the vascular canals run nearly parallel with, and equidistant from, each othei’, through the major part of the extent of such modified dentine; it is exemplified in the rostral teeth of the Saw-fish, the maxillary dental plates of the ChimmrcB, Psammodonts, vnaiiMyliohates: in the latter each medullary canal and its system of dentinal tubes represents a slender subcylindrical denticle, being separated from the contiguous denticles by a thin coat of bone or ‘ cement.’ The dense covering of the jaws of the Scari consists of a stratum of quite distinct prismatic denticles, standing vertically to the surface of the bone. ‘ Osteo-dentine ’ is that tissue in which the medullary canals are wavy, irregular, and anastomotic; in Mammalia it contains the Purkingian cells ; in fishes it usually is covered more or less thickly by hard dentine. Those conical teeth which, when fully formed, consist wholly or in great part of osteodentine or vasodentine, always first appear wdth an apex of true dentine. In some fishes the simple^central basal pulp-cavity of such teeth, instead of breaking up into irregular or parallel canals, sends out a series of vertical plates from its periphery, which, when calcified, give a fluted character to the base of the tooth; {Lepidosteus oxyurus, lxxxvi. pi. v. fig. 1.) Sometimes such radiating vertical basal plates of dentine are wavy in their course, and send off narrow processes from their sides; and, as a thin layer of the outer capsule interdigitates with the outstanding The vaso.dentinc of Pristis and Mytiohates is like that of the teeth of the Cape Anteatcr (Orycteropus) : the vaso-dentine of the Psainmodonts resembles that c 'Oi'ns the base of the tooth of the Sloth and Megatherium : the vaso-dentine ot Mammals differs from the osteo-dentine in the absence of the radiated ‘ I’urkin- gian cells. t See V. p. 10. ,VOL. H.