11 CHAKACTEES OP VERTEBEATE ANIMALS. embryo and the Invertebrate adult,—it is not with any of the higher forms of Invertebrata,—with neither the Cephalopod, the Arachni- dan, nor the Insect,—that such organic correspondence is found to exist; but it is with the lowest forms and simplest beginnings of animal life, — with the infusorial monads. Only, in fact, during that period of the ovum-life of the Vertebrated being, in which the mys- terious properties of the impregnated germ-vesicle are ditfused and distributed by fissiparous multiplication amongst countless nucleated cells—the progeny of the primary germinal vesicle and coheirs of Ova of the Rabbit, at four early stages of development (Barry). the seminal virtue—do we find such a form and such properties of the Vertebrated animal as justify us in affirming that there is “ Unity of Organisation” between it and an Invertebrate animal. (Compare Jig. 2. with cut 14., p. 24., Lectures on Invertebrata.) The next step in the development of the ovum—and it is so speedy a one, that those which precede it long escaped observation—im- presses upon the nascent being its Vertebrated type. Certain nu- cleated cells lose their individuality and powers of propagation ; they coalesce and fill the fine tubes so formed with albumen, as the final act of their assimilative power, and thus become converted into nervous tissue, in the form of a double chord {Jig. 3. cA), which, from its first beginning, marks the dorsal aspect of the embryonic trace: other nucleated cells lay the foundation of the vertebral column {v) around the spinal chord; others again change into the softer tissues, and the rest, circulating with the nutrient fluid, as blood discs, through channels which sketch out the sanguiferous system, maintain life, and furnish materials by their powers of assimi- lation and spontaneous fission to the growing body. * All vertebrated animals, during a greater or less extent of these developmental processes, float in a liquid of similar specific gravity to themselves. A vast proportion, constituting tlie lowest and fun- Gcrm of a Rabbit (Barry). * “ The blood [dantio, //cir.] i.s the life.”—Dent. xii. 2.S. “ alfia . . . ev tovtc)) "Vyp ecTt 7/ \l>uxv-'’—Joscplius, Antiq. 1. 3. 8. “ Empedocles,” says Plutarch, “con- siders the soul to ho the blood poured into the heart.” Homer (Odyssey, xi. .36. 97. 147.) says, “ The shades thirst after blood, for by its influence they escape from Erebus, and regain speech.” ' See also Sprcngel, “ Beitriige ziir Gcscbichte der Medizin,” i. 3. for the belief by the ancients in the vitality of the blood.