4 INTRODUCTORY LECTURE. We know that it has pleased God to grant us faculties, by the right use of which we may obtain a true knowledge of His works; and it seems pai’t of His providence to permit certain parcels of knowledge to be thus introduced from time to time, to the dissipation of the erroneous notions which previously prevailed. By the exer- cise of these faculties, the true shape of our Spheroid was determined, and, after some opposition*, accepted: next, its true relation to the sun, as respects its motion. It has been reserved for the present generation to acquire more just ideas of the age of the world, and Anatomy has been, and must be, the chief and most essential means of establishing this important element in the earth’s history. But Anatomy aids not only the Geologist, but the Geographer: by -comparing the local distribution of I’estored extinct species from coeval geological strata over all the earth, with the geographical dis- tribution of existing animals, we obtain an insight into the past con- ditions of continents and islands; we detei’mine that our own island, for example, once formed part of the continent, and obtain data for tracing out much greater mutations and alternations of land and ■sea. f Thus, upon Anatomy depends the safe and successful practice of •Medicine and Surgery: the knowledge of the uses of parts, and of their essential nature in Man, viewed as modifications of a general type. Anatomy is the basis of right classification and philosophical Zoology: it unfolds the law of the introduction of animal life on this planet; it is essential to the right progress of Geology, and gives an insight into the true chronology and ancient geography of the globe. Almost every day brings some new proof of the importance of the knowledge of Animal Organisation, which bids fair to take rank as the first of all sciences; and it is to Anatomy, that we have the high privilege to be introduced at the very outset of our professional studies. More might be said, and better, in praise of our peculiar science; but when I reflect on that department which I propose to treat of in the present Lectures, viz. the Comparative Anatomy of the Ver- tebrate Classes of Animals, its great extent, and the diversity of details which it embraces, I feel it incumbent to enter, without fur- ther preface, upon the proper subject of this Course. • See Lactantius, Inatit. lib. ili. c. 24, against the earth’s rotundity; and Augus- tine, De Civit. Dei, lib. xvi. c. 9. against Antipodes. ■f Report of Ilritish Association for the Advancement of Science, 1844; and “ History of Hritish Fossil Mammalia,” 8vo. 1845, pp. xxvii. xlvi.