64 LECTURE III. i /■i foi' by the characteristically well-developed body of the atlas in fishes, since the atlas has a small centrum in crocodiles and birds, where the odontoid process likewise exists. The number of vertebrae varies greatly in the different osseous fishes : the Plectognathi (^Diodo?i, Tetrodon,) have the fewest and largest: the apodal fishes (Eels, Gymnotes,) have the most and smallest, in proportion to their size. It is not often easy to deter- mine the precise number, on account of the coalescence of some of the vertebras, or at least of their central elements, in particular parts of the column. Instances of anchylosis of some of the anterior ver- tebra, analogous to that noticed in the cartilaginous Sturgeons, Chimasras, Rhinobates, and some Sharks, occur also amongst the osseous fishes, as in many Siluroid and Cyprinoid species; in the Loricaria and Fistularia : here is an example (Jfg- 21.) of the four singularly elongated anchylosed anterior abdominal ver- tebra, in the Tobacco-pipe fish {FisUdaria tabaccaria). A coalescence of several vertebrae is more constant at the opposite end of the column in osseous fishes, in order to form the base of the caudal fin. The bodies at least of the vertebrae situated here, at the part most remote from the centre of life, do not emerge separately from the primitive embryonic condition of the gelatinous ‘ chorda,’ but are continuously ossified to form a common, compressed, ver- tically extended, and often bifurcated bony plate (y?y. 18. n'hf), from which the neural and haemal arches and their spines radiate : from these elements alone can the niunber of vertebrae of the caudal fin be estimated; normal de- velopment proceeding here in the peripheral elements, as throughout the vertebral column in Lepidosiren, whilst it is arrested in the central parts of the vertebrae. In the Sun-fish (^Orthagoriscus mola) it would seem as if a row of rudimental vertebrae had been blended together at right angles to the rest of the column, in order to support the rays of the short, but very deep caudal fin, which ter- minates the suddenly truncated body of this oddly shaped fish. Our common Pike affords a simple and intelligible view of this modified base of the tail-fin : in the Eels, the Polypterus, the Lepidosiren, the Trichiurus, and Pipe-fishes, the vertebrae always remain distinct to the end of the tail. Cuvier, in the tables of the number of vertebrae in various species to the several parts of this combined segment of endo- and exo-skeleton are oppo- site the left l.and of tlie reader ; those applied to them in the present work are placed opposite the right hand. Anchylosed anterior verte- bra;, Pi])e-fish {Fistularia).