232 LECTURJE IX. We have seen that the jaws and mouth arc subservient to the respiratory as well as the digestive functions: but in the loAvest of fishes, viz. the Lancelot, this community of offices extends through the whole oesophageal and seemingly gastric part of the alimentary canal, which is dilated into a capacious sac, and is richly provided with branchial vessels and vibratile cilia arranged in transverse linear series, like those in the respiratory pharynx of Ascidians (the arrow a extends from the pharynx into the intestine in^^. 46.) : the oesophageal portion of the alimentary canal is here seen to be longer than the whole gastric aad intestinal portions. In the Myxi- noids lateral diverticula are derived from the oesophagus and me- tamorphosed into special respiratory sacs, communicating by narrow canals both with the oesophagus and with the external surface : in other fishes the respiratory apparatus is more con- centrated and brought more forwards, so as to communicate with the pharynx, and to leave the oesophagus free for the exclusive transmis- sion of food to the stomach. The oesophagus (j%. 61. c?) is usually a short and wide funnel- shaped canal with a tliick muscular coat and a smooth epithelial lining, more or less longitudinally folded to admit of increased capacity for the deglutition of the often unmasticated or un- divided food. The muscular fibres are arranged in different fasciculi, the outer ones being usually circular, the inner ones longitudinal. Some fasciculi from the abdominal vertebras are attached to the oesophagus in the Coitus scorpius (xcix.). The cardiac half of the ossophagus is characterised by increasing width in most Cyprinidee, and by a more vascular or otherwise modified texture in the Pharyn- gognathi, Lopho-hranchii, the Gobioids, Blennies, Flying-fish, Gar- fish, and some others. The inner surface of the oesophagus sends off short processes, papilliform in Box and Ccssio, obtuse in Acipenser, (prep. 463.), hard and almost tooth-like in Rhombus xanthurus, Stromatceus fiatola, and Tetragonurus or the keel-tailed Mullet. The inner surface of the gullet presents longitudinal papillose ridges in Planirostra, But the most striking peculiarities of the oesophagus are met with in the Plagiostomes. A layer of grey parenchymatous substance is interposed between the muscular and inner coats at the cardiac half of the oesophagus in the Torpedo. Numerous pyramidal retroverted processes, jagged or fringed at their extremity, project from the inner surface of the oesophagus in the Dog-fish (Sjnnax acanthias (prep. 664.). In the great Basking Shark {Selache) the homologous jirocesses, near the cardia, acquire unusual length, divid- ing and subdividing as they extend inwards, so that the cardiac opening is surrounded by ramified tufts directed towards the stomach. Tills valvular mechanism (prep. 464. a), seems intended to prevent