THE SKTJI.L OF OSSEOUS FISHES. 125 veritablement tres singuliere, et que le manque absolu de cou, et une combinaison des pieces dii sternum avec celles de la tete pouvoient seuls rendre possible.” (^Annales du Museum, ix. p. 361.) Oken’s latest idea of the essential nature of tbe arms and legs is, that they are no other than ‘liberated ribs:’ “Freye Bewegungs- organe konnen nichts anderes als frey gewordene Rippen seyn. (^Lehrbuch der Natur Philosophie, p. 330. 8vo. 1843.) Carus (L), in his ingenious endeavours to gain a view of the primary homologies of the locomotive members, sees in their several joints repetitions of vertebral bodies {tertiar-wirhel)—vertebras of the third degree — a result of an ultimate analysis of a skeleton pushed to the extent of the term ‘ vertebra ’ being made to signify little more than what an ordinary anatomist would call a ‘ bone.’ But these transcendental analyses sublimate all differences, and de- finite knowledge of a part escapes through the unwarrantable exten- sion of the meaning of terms. We have seen, however, that a ver- tebra is a natural group of bones, that it may be recognised as a pri- mary division or segment of the endo-skeleton, and that the parts of that group are definable and recognisable under all their teleolo- gical modifications, their essential relations and characters appearing through every adaptive mask. According to the definition of which a vertebra has seemed to me to be susceptible, we recognise the centrum, the upper (neural) arch, the lower (hiemal) arch, and the appendages, diverging or radia- ting from the haemal arch. The centrum, though the basis, is not less a part of a vertebra, than are the neurapophyses, haemapophyses, pleu- rapophyses, &c.; and each of these parts is a different part from the other: to call all these parts ‘ vertebrae ’ is in effect to deny their dif- ferential and subordinate characters, and to voluntarily abdicate the power of appreciating and expressing them. The terms ‘secondary’ or ‘ tertiary vertebrae ’ cannot, therefore, be correctly applied to the appendages of that natural segment of the endo-skeleton to which the term ‘ vertebra ’ ought to be restricted. So likewise the term ‘ rib ’ may be given to each moiety of the haemal arch of a vertebra; although I would restrict it to that part of such arch to which the term ‘ vertebral rib ’ is applied in Com- parative Anatomy and the term ‘ pars ossea costae ’ in Anthropotomy: but, admitting the wider application of the term ‘ rib ’ to the whole haemal arch, yet the bony diverging and backwai’d projecting appen- dage of sucli rib or arch is something different from the part support- ing it. Arms and legs may be developments of costal appendages, but cannot be I’ibs themselves liberated: although liberated ribs may , perform analogous functions, as in the Serpents and Dragons.