239 DIGESTIVE SYSTEM OE FISHES, and less oblique as they approach the rectum; the commencement of this intestine is marked by a large transverse fold or circular valve, which is succeeded by several others less produced, and resembling the valvulte conniventes in the human jejunum. The straight ‘large in- testine,’ which is relatively longer in the Amia, Polypterus, Paddle-fish 61.), Sturgeon, and Chimaerse, is characterised by the continuity of such transverse folds as those in the Salmon, producing an unin- terrupted spiral valve of the mucous membrane. In the Lepidosiren the entire tract of the straight and short intestine is traversed by this peculiarly piscine extension of the inner coat.* The spiral valve characterises the large intestine in all the Plagiostomes, and establishes the essential difference between the short and apparently simple intestinal canal of these cartilaginous fishes, and that of the low-organised Myxinoid species. The true homologue of the small intestine is extremely short in the Plagiostomes; it is narrow in the Rays, expanded and sometimes sacciform {Jig. 65. g) in the Sharks, where it seems to form the com- mencement of the suddenly exjianded large intestine: this is straight, and though constituting the chief extent of the intestinal canal, it is very short in proportion to the body; not exceeding, for example, one eighth of the entire length of the body in the Alopecias or Fox- shark. The economy of space in the abdominal cavity f is, however, efiected at the expense of-the serous and muscular coats, not of the mucous membrane. The required extent of secreting and absorbing superficies is gained by raising or drawing inwards, from the intestinal parietes, the mucous membrane in a broad fold at the beginning of the large intestine, and continuing it in spiral volutions to near the anus. The coils may be either longitudinal and wound vertically about the axis of the intestinal cylinder, or they may be transverse to that axis. In the first case, when the gut is slit open lengthwise, the whole extent of the fold may be uncoiled and spread out as a broad sheet; and, if the gut be divided transversely, the cut edges of the valve present a spiral disposition, as in Jig: 64. The Hunterian preparation (No. 645.) shows the longitudinal form of the spiral valve; as it may be seen, also, in the squaloid genera Carcharias, Scoliodon, Galeocerdo, Thalassorhinus, and Zygoena. | In the second and more common modification, the fold of mucous mem- spiral valve, Zygana; . Duvernoy. brane is disposed in close transverse coils, as shown in the longitudinal section of the Selache’s gut (/y. 65.//,.); and a trans- verse section exposes only the flat surface of one of the coils. Prep. * XXXIII. p. 343. pi. 25. fig. 2. t XLVI. t. iv. p. 314. ; t. xcvi. p. 277. pi. 2 and 3. f Roget, c. ii. p. 205.