VERTEBRAL COLUMN OF PISHES. 57 ternally a thin layer of hyaline cartilage, internally a thin layer of bone, and, between these, two alternate layers of semi-osseous and hyaline cartilages. In the flat Plagiostomes (Skates, Rays, Torpedos) vegetative re- petition manifests itself still more strongly in the multiplication of vertebrae, and especially of the central elements ; which, as indicated by their rudimentary primary ossification in Chimcera and Heptan- chus, are commonly more numerous than the more constant neural arches ; nor are interneural and interhaemal pieces altogether wanting in the Rays. Muller (xxi. p. 92.) rightly states that in Raia cla- vata these ossa intercalaria constitute the chief part of the neural arch, at the anterior part of the vertebral column ; whilst the neura- pophyses resume their ordinary share in its formation at the posterior part of the column. In the Zygcena we perceive, also, interspinal cartilages. In Rhinobatus a single spine answers to two vertebral bodies (xxi. p. 93.), and we may well suppose this multiplication of central pieces to have been carried still farther in the primmval fossil Ray (Spinachorhinus) from the Dorsetshire Lias.* In the anchylosed cervical vertebrm of the Skate the short cen- trums are indicated by transverse bars along the middle of the under part. The parapophyses in most Rays pass forwards, and are then bent backwards, the angle of one fitting, like an articular process, into the notch of the parapophysis in advance: they do not support pleura- pophyses ; they gradually bend down behind the pelvic arch, and complete the hasmal canal about six vertebrte beyond it; the hmmal spines become flattened in the tail of some Rays. In the ‘Pisces ossei’ of the Cuvierian system, which include the great majority and typical members of the class, it might be ex- pected that ossification, of the vertebral axis at least, would be a constant condition: yet I have already had occasion to allude to a fish, viz. Lepidosiren, in which the embryonic state of the bodies of the vertebra?, as a continuous chondro-gelatinous chord, remains; although the neur- and par-apophyses, many cranial bones, and the maxillary, mandibular, hyoidean and scapular arches, are well ossi- fied. The fact of many fossil Ganoid fishes showing the same parts of the skeleton petidfied and undisturbed, but without a trace of the central elements of the vertebra?, shows that the transitional condition of the Lepidosiren’s skeleton was not uncommon in the primmval * Squalnraia of Riley and Stutchbury (Geol. Trans. 2d ser. vol. v. i>. S.*). )d. 4.), iregarded as a fo.ssil reptile by Dr. Grant (Lectnre.s, Lancet, .Tan. I8f!4, p. BIG.) : 170 vertebral bodies are included in tbe abdominal jinrt of llie eolunin ; and tlie part extending beyond tlie pelvic arch, if e(|ual to tliut in most Rays, jirohnbly did not contain less than four times the above number of abdominal vertebra;.