28 lecture II. some of the phenomena of osteogeny to surmise that the walls and the nucleus of the cell were in opposite electric or magnetic states, one attracting, the other repelling, the surrounding earthy particles. Certain of the columnar series of nucleated cells become more aggx'egated or pressed together ; their nuclei become more concen- trated, and, according to Miescher and Gerber, they coalesce and be- come dissolved, leaving a cylindrical tube, parallel with the long axis of the future bone. First, a reddish lymph, and then a capillary vessel is prolonged into each of these cylinders, which is converted into a “ Haversian,” or vascular canal: before, however, the direct influence of the circulation has penetrated so far, the nucleated carti- laginous cells have arranged or propagated themselves in concentric series round the cylinder, and the intervening layers of the mole- cular blastema begin to be impregnated with the hardening salts, which, being repelled by the nuclei of the cells, are forced into the concentric laminated arrangement around the Haversian canal. The establishment of the capillary circulation in these canals accelerates the progress of ossiflcation by the rapid import of new material; the resisting nuclei of the surrounding concentric cells, pressed on all sides, undergo a remarkable change, and the nucleolar matter is forced out in rays, but chiefly in the direction where the resistance is least, viz. towards the Haversian canal. The remaining central nuclear matter and that of the diverging rays finally become dis- solved, and establish permanent bone-cells and minute tubes, which tubes, traversing the concentric lamellas, open into the Haversian canal, and receive the transuded plasma from the blood-capillary. The tubes branch and anastomose, and form the medium of the trans- mission of the plasma through the densest osseous tissue. This sys- tem of cells and tubes, in fact, perform the same important function in the nutrition of the osseous tissue, which I ascribed in 1838 to the corresponding cells and tubes of the cemental tissue of the teeth of the Megatherium (vi. p. 104.): and they might be appropriately termed the “ Plasmatic system.” They correspond with one of the series of the “ vasa lymphatica” of the older physiologists; the first kind, for example, specified in Noquez’s edition of Kiel, quoted by Hunter: “ Les premiers naissent des extremites arterielles; on les norame ‘ arteres lymphatiques,’ qui peut-etre ne sont autre chose que les conduits excretoires d’une lymphe tres subtile, on de la matiere qui transpire” (vii. vol. ii. p. 11.). The dentinal tubes of teeth and the plasmatic tubes of bone are not, indeed, prolonged from attenuated ends of arterial capillaries, but tliey receive the plasma transuded or transpired from the parietal pores of the capillary system, and thus