176 LECTURE VITI. aiul the Sturgeon. The relative size of the cerebellum, accord- varies greatly in different bony fishes : it is very small in the lazy Lump-fish, and extremely large in the active and warm- blooded Tunny, where also its surface 'shows transverse groovings. The cerebellum is unsymmetrically placed in the Pike and Flat- fish {Pleicronectidm), and is unsymmetrically shaped in the Sharks ; it presents a posterior notch in the Herring, a transverse notch dividing it into an anterior and posterior lobe in the Lophius, and a crucial impression in the Skate. The cerebellum presents in many fishes a small cavity or fossa at its under part, continued from the fourth ventricle {fig. 5\. c); it is solid in the Tench, the Gar- Pike, and the common Eel; some grey matter is usually found in its interior, with feeble indications of white strim, but there is no ‘arbor vitm,’ except in the Tunny and the Sharks. The posterior ‘crura cerebelli’ 51 _ . are formed, as we have seen, by the posterior pyramids in con- junction with part of the resti- Section of Brain, Carp. n . . .• i n form tracts: vertical fibres from the side of the cerebellum continue to attach it to the sides of the restiform or trigeminal lobes, and some of these are continued, as arciform filaments, upon the under surface of the medulla oblongata: they answer to the ‘ crura cerebelli ad pontem ’ of mammalia; but, as there are no lateral lobes to the cerebellum in Fishes, these crura are rudimentary, and the ‘ pons ’ is absent. In the Shark they con- nect the sides of the base of the cerebellum with the ‘ restiform commissure’ {figs. 48 and 55. 1.). In most Fishes two fasciculi of medullary fibres proceed, as ‘ anterior crura,’ from the under and fore part of the cerebellum, or converge from the lateral and fore part forwards, to form the inner wall or septum {fig. 52. r) of the optic lobes : these answer to the ‘ processus a cerebello ad testes ’ of the human brain: they are connected below their origin at the under part of the cerebellum by one or two tranverse fasciculi of white fibres, forming the ‘commissura ansulata,’ which crosses the pre- pyramids just behind the ‘hypoaria’ {fig. 53. 7i). The inferior white surface of the cerebellum which forms the roof of the fourth ven- tricle is called ‘ discus cerebelli,’ and from this part small tubercles project in a few fishes {e. g. Blennius). The restiform columns, quitting the postpyramidal crura of the cerebellum, and having effected by their previous confluence therewith some interchange of filaments, swell out at the antei’ior lateral parts of the medulla oblongata, and give origin to the great trigeminal nerve. They here form considerable ‘ trigeminal lobes ’ in the