78 LECTURE IV. and giving the peculiar form to the skull of certain Sharks, thence called “ Hammer-headed” {Zygcena). In the Eagle-ray {Myliohates) a cartilage is attached to the anterior prolonged • angle of the great pectoral fin, and connects it with the fore-part of the cranial (inter- nasal) cartilage; it supports a number of branched and j ointed car- tilaginous rays, which project forwards, and are connected at the middle line with a like series from the opposite side of the head; they maybe regarded as. pai’tial dismemberments of the great pectorals; and in Rhinoptera Braziliensis their supporting cartilage is directly continued from that of the pectoral fins, though it is closely attached to the fore-part of the head. These form what Miiller has termed “ cranial finsbut the parts more properly meriting that name are the opercular and branchiostegal appendages of the tympanic and hyoidean arches. Having traced in the examples of cartilaginous fishes selected for demonstration, the progressive steps by which the typical features of the ichthyic skull are modelled, as by the hand of the sculptor, in the yielding gristle, we have next to consider them with their leading varieties, as they are permanently wrought out in hard bone. We saw that the base of the skull was first formed by the anterior prolongation of the gelatinous chorda dorsalis, and that the cranial cavity resulted from the extension of the membrane from the fibrous sheath of the gelatinous chorda over the anterior end of the nervous axis. We saw next the superaddition of special capsules for the organs of sense; and then the cartilaginous tissue developed from the basis cranii, according to a pattern common to the lowest forms of the class, and to the embryos of the higher forms which the Cy- clostomes permanently represent. We saw the cartilaginous tissue acquiring a firmer texture, hardened by superficial osseous grains, or tesserae, mounting higher upon the lateral and ujiper walls of the cranium, and at length entirely defending it: and we then also re- cognised the maxillary, mandibular, and hyoidean arches, established in a firm cartilaginous material, and on a recognisable ichthyic type. We have next to trace the course and the forms under which the osseous material is superadded to, or substituted for, the primitive cartilaginous material of the skull in osseous fishes; and the I’emark- able transitional genus Lepidosiren, whose organisation I first made known under the name of Protopterus (xxxiii.), offers the most natural and instructive passage in the shape and structure of its skull, between the gristly and the bony fishes. In the Lepidosiren ossification of the cranial end of the chorda dorsalis extends along the under and lateral part of its sheath, back- wards to beneath the atlas and axis {fig. 27. i), the posterior slightly