CnARACTEUS OP THE CLASSES OP VEETEBRATE ANIMAtS. 17 gullet, being co-extensive Avith the neck, is of great lengtli; the stomach is always divided into two cavities, the first glandular, the second muscular; and the distinction between small and large in- testines is usually marked by the presence of two caeca. The in- testine terminates, as in the Reptiles, in a common cloaca. The cerebral hemispheres have acquired a large proportional size in Birds as compared with Reptiles, and the cerebellum is complicated by many transverse folds: but Birds are peculiarly distinguished by the inferior and lateral position of the optic lobes; and the whole brain presents a more compact form and larger size, in proportion to the spinal cord and nerves, than in Reptiles. The partial enlargements of the spinal marrow, corresponding to the brachial and lumbar nervous plexuses, are more marked than in Reptiles, and the lumbar en- largement is distinguished by a ventricle. The sense of sight is peculiarly keen and perfect in the class of Birds, and the eye has some structures which are not found in other Yertebrata. The organisation of the ear has likewise advanced, a cochlea, though of simple form, being added to the semicircular canals. A circle of feathers radiates from the outer aperture of the ear, forming a con- cave disc or conch, to catch and concentrate the vibrations of sound; and such an advance is in harmony with the varied power of ex- pressing the feelings and the passions with which Birds are gifted. We may still, indeed, hear in the aquatic members of the class the hiss of the serpent or the croak of the frog; but as Birds rise in the scale their vocal powers rapidly develope: the cock “ with shrill clarion sounds the silent hours,” and the nightingale, bursting forth in song, fills all the grove with her varied melody. With regard to the sense of smell we estimate its improvement by observing the more extensive and complex turbinated cartilages in the present Class. But taste must still be dull; there is no true gustatory nerve, and the tongue is commonly sheathed with horn. The beak is in some birds modified to communicate a delicate faculty of touch, but elsewhere this sense is very limited, the general surface of the body being defended by the dense, imbricated, insensible plumage. All birds are oviparous : only the aquatic birds enjoy intromission. The female constructs a nest and incubates her eggs, and, after ex- clusion, cherishes, feeds, and educates her young. The class Mammalia, which crowns the vertebrated series and the animal kingdom, is characterised by a double circulation, a quick respiration by lungs subdivided into minute cells, Avarm blood, and, witli few exceptions, a covering of hair. But the lungs are not fixed in the interspaces of the ribs, as in birds; nor do they communicate Avith abdominal air-cells; but are confined, with the heart, and freely VOL. rr. G