301 DKVELOl'MENT OF EISIIICS. tunics: and, as no part of the foetal abdominal appendage is cast olF, nor the chord divided, there is no cicatrix — no umbilicus. Ihe artei’ial vessels of the yolk are derived, not from the mesenteric vein as in osseous fishes, but from ramifications of a branch of the me- senteric artery, and the blood is returned to the mesenteric vein. Ihe Hunterian preparations of the embryo Carcharias (No. 1061), Scijllium (No. 3250), Spmax (No. 3255), and Alopias (No. 3261), demonstrate another foetal peculiarity which later researches * have shown to be probably common to all Plagiostomes, viz. the external fringe of filaments developed from the branchial surfaces (6): a tuft extends out of each aperture, and even from the spiracula (a) in the genera, with those accessory openings. Each filament contains a single capillary loop f: they disappear early, being removed by absoi'ption. The last remnants may be seen in the foetal Saw-fish (Pristis, No. 3263), which is eight inches in length, including the saw, and has the duct of the external vitellicle attached. In the oviparous Sharks, the branchial filaments re-act on the streams of water admitted into the egg by the apertures 81. c). In the ovo-viviparous Sharks the size and position of the cloacal apertures of the uteri \yould seem adapted to allow free ingress of sea-water (No. 3255) ; so that, whilst the vitellicle administers to the nutriment of the embryo, the external branchim may perform the respiratory func- tion. In the species of Shark, the smooth Emissole, in which Prof. Muller has shown that vascular cotyledons are developed from the vitelline (omphalo-mesenterie) capillaries, which are firmly connected to the uterine cotyledons, the vitellicle, like a true placenta, may per- form both the nutrient and respiratory functions : the external branchias disappear some time befoi’e the exclusion of the Embryo and the absorption of the yolk. In the Lepidosiren annectens\ three small ex- ternal branchial filaments project from the single opercular aperture on each side, and are long retained, if they be not permanent in that remarkable osculant form between the osseous and cartilaginous fishes. Some of the plagiostomous fishes are oviparous, but not as in the majority of osseous fishes; a remarkable transposition in the periods of the processes of fecundation and exclusion marks the distinction. In the oviparous osseous fishes the ova are first excluded, then im- pregnated : in the oviparous Plagiostomes impregnation is internal, and precedes oviposition. The eggs are much fewer in number, but their impregnation is more certain than in the scattered indiscriminate act of spawning of the common fishes, where the countless numbers of the ova seem to compensate for the chances that may intervene to * Rudolphi, i.xxv. Rathke, cix.; Leuckart, exxm. ; J. Davy, i.xxxi. f A. Tiiompson, cxi. I Jarclino, cxxxv. ; and Peters, cxxxvi.