41 THE SKELETON. tomy) is said to be the centrum or body of the occipital or posterior cranial vertebra, its general homology is enunciated. When it is said to repeat in its vertebra, or to answer to the basi-sphenoid in the parie- tal vertebra, or to the body or centrum in the atlas, dentata, or any other of the vertebral segments of the skeleton, its serial homology is indi- cated : when the essential correspondence of the basilar process of the occipital bone in Man with the distinct bone called “ basi-occipital ” in a Crocodile or Fish is shown, its special homology is determined. LECTURE III. THE VERTEBRA, AND VERTEBRAL COLUMN IN FISHES, To understand the fundamental type of the vertebrate skeleton its study must be commenced, not in the highest species, — not in that skeleton where irrelative repetition is least, and where modification of each part in mutual subserviency to another is greatest, — but in the lowest Class where, conformably with the law enunciated in the previous Course *, vegetative uniformity most prevails, and the pri- mitive type is least obscured by teleological adaptations. Such conditions are best displayed in the skeletons of fishes : fishes form, however, but one branch of the vertebrate stem, which, like other primary branches, ramifies in diverging from the common trunk. We should miss our aim, therefore, and be led astray from the detection of the true general type of the vertebrate skeleton, Avere we to confine our observations to fishes only. A comparison of their skeletons Avith tliose of the higher classes teaches that the na- tural arrangements of the parts of the endo-skeleton in Vertebrata, like that of the exo-skeleton in Articulata, is in a series of segments succeeding each other in the axis of the body. I do not find these successive segments composed of precisely the same number of bones in all Vertebrata; rarely, indeed, in the same animal. Yet certain constituent parts of each segment do preserve such constancy in their existence, relative position, and offices throughout the body, as to enforce a conviction that tliey are homologous parts, both in the con- secutive series of the same individual skeleton, and throughout the 'entire series of vertebrate animals. * Lectures on Invertcbruta, 8vo. 18‘J3, p. 364.