THE SKULL OP OSSEOUS FISHES. 129 the claws and nails of higher Vertebrata, but which on their first ap- 2‘>earance, in the ju’ssent highly organised class of fishes, manifest, like other newly introduced organs, the jJrinciple of vegetative repe- tition, there being three or four horny filaments to each cartilaginous ungual phalanx. On the fore part of the coracoid arch, near to the prominence sup- porting the fin, there are developed a vertical series of small bony cylindrical nuclei in the substance of the cartilage in most Sharks. In the Rays the coraco-scapular arch forms an entire circle or girdle attached to the dorsal spines: it consists of one continuous cartilage in the Rhmobates, but in other Rays is divided into coracoid, scapular, and suprascapular portions, the latter united together by ligament. The scapula and coracoid expand at their outer ends, where they join each other by thi’ee points, to each of which a cartilage is articulated homo- logous with the three above described in the Shark, and which imme- diately sustain the fin-rays. The jiosterior cartilage answering to, the upper one in the Shark curves backwards and reaches the ventral fin: the antei’ior cax'tilage curves forwards, and its extremity is joined by the ant-oi’bital process as it proceeds to be attached to the end of the rostral cartilage; the middle proximal cartilage is comparatively short and crescentic, and sustains about a sixth jiart of the fin-rays, which are the longest, the rest being supported by the anterior and posterior carpals, and gradually diminishing in length as they ap- proach the extremities of those cartilages. In the common Ray there are upwards of a hundred metacarpo-phalangeal rays in each great pectoral fin. The longest rays begin after the tenth or eleventh joint to bifurcate; the shorter ones bifurcate progressively nearer their origin. The ventral fin is better developed in the Plagiostonies than in any other fishes. The supporting arch consists indeed of the same simple pubic elements, united together by ligament in the middle line, and loosely suspended in the abdominal walls, but they do not immediately support the fin-rays. Two intermediate cartilages are articulated to the expanded outer end of each pubis; the anterior is the shortest in the Dog-fish, and supports three or four rays; the pos- terior one is much longer, and supports the remainder of the rays, fifteen or sixteen in number. To the end of this cartilage likewise is attached, in the male Plagiostomes and Chimaira;, the peculiar ac- cessary generative organ or clasjier. In the lorpedo the jmbic arch sends forwards two 2‘>i’ocesses like marsupial bones; these processes are longer in an extinct Ray to which its discoverer Sir P. de M. Grey Egerton has given the name oVCyclohalcs olitjodaciylm (xL. p. 225. 2>1. 5.). VOL. II. K