266 LECTURE X. the branchi-ai’tcrial trunk, a secondary branch, sent off by tlie artery of the first branchial arch : but it nevertheless developes a simple gill, of one series of filaments in the Lepidosiren 71. i), and of one series of lamella? in the Plagiostomes : and this series is attached, like the opercular gill of the Lepidosteus and Sturgeon, to the mem- brane supported by the hyoid arch. In most osseous fishes we recognise the reduced homologue of the anterior primary vascular arch in that vessel 69. e.), which is continued from the venous or refluent division of the second primary vascular arch; not, as in the foregoing fishes, from the arterial division of that arch, or from the branchial trunk. The vessel in question carries, therefore, arterial blood : it manifests its primitive character by returning into the circulus aorticus (as at e',Jj.g. 69.), but now receives blood from it, and is called ‘ arteria hyo-opercularis : ’ the pseudo-branchia, when pi’esent (as at r), is developed from it. In osseous fishes the four normal biserial pectinated gills are deve- loped only from the four anterior branchial arches ; the fifth and last arch has no gill developed from it, but is converted, as we have seen, into a pair of accessory jaws. In the Lepidosiren, as in Hexanchus, the fifth arch supports a uniserial gill (^^.71. 6). In the Planirostra, although the bran- chial pecten is not developed from it, yet the same kind of long slender filamentary processes project inwards from its concavity, as from that of each of the anterior four pairs of branchial arches. The five interspaces between the hyoid arch and the five branchial arches are originally ex^josed on the sides of the head of the embryo osseous fish; the opercular and bran- chiostegal appendages are later de- velopments, and the single branchial outlet is the result of the formation of the gill-cover. Thus the numerous branchial apertiu'esin the cai’tilaginous fishes, like the substance of their skeleton, are retentions of embry- onic structures. Very interesting arrests of development are also found in bony fishes. We have seen that the primary vascular hoops sweep over their respective arches without sending off any branches, the (subsequently) branchial veins being in the embryo direct con- tinuations of the branchial arteries. Tliis primitive condition is per- sistent in the fourth branchial arch of certain Murmnoid fishes of the Circulating and respiratory Organs : Lepidosiren.