203 NERVOUS SYSTEM OE FISHES. by the pigmental layer or not, is called tlie falci- form process ’ (c); it carries before it a fold of the proper tunic of the vitreous humour (‘ mem- brana hyaloidea’), and usually extends to the capsule of the lens (tZ), to which it is attached by means of a clear but firm substance, called the ‘ campanula HallerV The posterior or outer layer of the retina con- sists of the cellular basis, supporting the stratum of cylindricules, standing vertically upon its con- cave surface, with the interblended twin-fusiform corpuscles, both of which microscopic structures are more easily demonstrated in the present than in the higher classes of Vertebrata. Each twin-corpuscle is surrounded by a circle of cylindricules. The primitive nerve-fibres radiate over the cylindricules, without anastomosing, and terminate in free ends, not by loops, at the basis of the ciliary zone. A delicate but well-defined raised rim or ‘bead’ runs along both the anterior margins of the retina, and along those which form the falciform slit. The crystalline lens {d) is spherical, large, firm, with a dense nucleus: it is almost buried in the vitreous humour, where it is steadied by the attachment of the falciform ligament to its thin cap- sule : the fore part projects through the pupil against the fiat cornea, and so nearly fills the anterior chamber, that but a very small space is left for ‘ aqueous humour.’ The radiating fibres and elongated cells of the hyaloid tissue *, with the interstitial ‘ vitreous humour,’ present a firmer consistency than in the human eye, and show their intimate structure and arrangement more clearly under the microscope than in Mammalia. The membranes situated between the retina and sclerotica, called collectively ‘ choroid tunic,’ are three in number: the external layer in Osseous Fishes, called ‘ membrana argentea’ (e), is composed chiefly of microscopical acicular crystals reflecting a silvery, or sometimes a golden lustre, with a delicate cellular basis, which assumes more firmness where it is continued upon the ‘ iris.’ The second or middle layer is the ‘ membrana vasctdosa,’ seu ‘ Halleri^ (/"), and, as its name implies, is the chief seat of the ramifications of the choroid vessels : it also supports the ciliary nerves. The innermost layer is the ‘•membrana picta,’ seu ‘Ruyschiana,' (g), also called ‘uvea,’ wliich is composed of hexagonal pigment-cells, usually of a deep brown or black colour. In tlie Grey Shark (^Galeus') the silvei’y layer Eye of Sword-fish ; oue-third natural size. LXV,