54 LECTUEE 111. In the southern Chimaera (Callorhynchus) a greater proportion of the chorda dorsalis is composed of the dense fibrous capsule, but it shows no trace of annular structure. In the northern ChimaBra, according to Muller (xxi. p. 68.), another stage towards the forma- tion of vertebral bodies begins to manifest itself by slender sub- ossified rings in the cartilaginous sheath of the chorda dorsalis, which, however, are more numerous than the neural arches. The neurapophyses and the bases of the transverse processes of about ten of the anterior vertebras coalesce, in all the Chimasrae, to form a continuous accessary covering of the fore part of the chorda; and the confluent neural spines here form a broad and high compressed cartilaginous plate. In the remainder of the vertebral column the neural arches are distinct from the transverse processes (parapophyses), and from the haemal arches, which these constitute in the tail. Between each neurapophysis an accessary cartilaginous interneura- pophysis* is wedged. Amongst the Sharks {Squalidce) a beautiful progression in the further development of a vertebra has been traced out, chiefly by J. Muller (xxi. p. 64.). In Heptanchus (^Squalus cinereus) the vertebral centres are still feebly and vegetatively marked out by numerous slender rings of hard cartilage in the capsule, the number of vertebrm being more definitively indicated by the neurapophyses and parapophyses; but these remain cartilaginous. Interneural pieces are wedged between the neural arches, and close them above ; the pleurapophyses are similarly wedged into the interspaces of the parapophyses, and articulate directly with the vertebral bodies, f In the Piked Dog-fish (^Acanthias) the vertebral centres coincide in number with the neural arches, and are defined by a thin layer of bone, which forms the conical cavity at each end, but the rest of the vertebra remains cartilaginous. In the Spotted Dog-fish (Scylliu?}i) the whole exterior of the centrum is covered by soft cartilage, except at the concave ends, where the two thin funnel-shaped plates of os- seous matter coalesce at their perforated apices, and form a basis of the vertebral body like an hour-glass; the series of these centrums protecting a continuous moniliform chorda dorsalis. In the great Basking Shark (Selache) the vertebral bodies are chiefly established by the terminal bony cones, the thick margins of which give attachment to the elastic capsules containing the fluid remains of the gelatinous chorda, which now tensely fills the interver- ♦ “ Ossa intercalaria cruru7ti," “ Lamina: in<crcrMr«/cs” (Miiller). Traces of tlie vegetative reiietition of vertebral elements may be seen in the higher animals : the interparietal bone of the Rodents is the ‘ os intercalare spinale ’ of the second cranial vertebra, and the ossa Wormiana are ‘ ossa intercalaria,’as John Midler has well remarked in his memoir on Myxinoids, j). 92.