131 DERMAL BONES OF FISHES. cartilaginous basis of the skull oppose the view of its homology with the basal elements of the cranial vertebras. With regard to the upper and lateral osseous plates of the head, they are, as Von Baer has indicated (lu.), the continuation of the series of dermal osseous plates upon the upper mid-line and sides of the trunk. Before, however, applying this instructive condition of the cranium of the Sturgeon to the elucidation of the nature and homologies of the bones which stiU remain to be noticed in the skuU of the Cod, I shall briefly describe the maxillaiy, mandibular, hyoid, and scapular hasmal arches of the coalesced cranial vertebrte of the Sturgeon. The first three of these arches are suspended from the tympanic pedicle; but this, instead of being a single piece, as in the Plagiostomes and Lepidosiren, consists of three cartilages, articulated in Accipenser Ruthenus, according to Muller, by a small accessory or interarticular cartilage, with the under part of the mastoid process. The three principal bones describe a semicircle, concave forwards, and answer respectively to the epi-tympanic {fig- 43. 25), the meso-tympanic {ib. 26), and hypo-tympanic {ib. 28) bones of Osseous Fishes. Fore-part of endo- and exo-skeleton of Sturgeon. The upper jaw, or maxillary arch of Plagiostomes and Lepidosiren, is represented in the Sturgeon by a partly osseous, partly cartila- ginous, broad arch, in which the centres of ossification have been three in number on each side, and indicate both by their relative position, and by the direction in, and extent to, which the bony fibres have diverged from them, the pre-maxillary, maxillary, and palatal bones of the Osseous Fishes. The pre-maxillaries {ib. 22) Ibrm the anterior and inferior border of the arch : each bone is a sub-triangular plate, joined by ligament to its fellow at the middle line, trenchant anteiiorly, contracted and thickened posteriorly, whence it rises and extends in the form of an arched process, out- wards and downwards to the outer side ol’ the joint for the lower K 2