MUSCULAR SYSTEM OF FISHES. 167 its propel' muscles, which rise from the sustaining hyoidean arch. A more constant and important muscle rises from the operculum and suboperculum, and attaches itself to the inner surface of the branchi- ostegal rays, expanding over the whole membrane of the branchial chamber, and the more completely as the chamber becomes more circumscribed, and its outlet smaller. In the Lepidosiren the homo- logous muscle rises not only from the suboperculum but from the ramus of the jaw, and, meeting its fellow along a median raphe beneath the head and hyoid arch, represents the ‘mylo-hyoideus’* The muscular investment of the branchial chamber of the Torpedo (45. r) receives a fasciculus from the scapula, and sends another {ib. o) forwards to the cranium, from which the con- strictor of the electric battery is continued. In most osseous fishes there is a decussating pair of muscles (depressores branchi- ostegorum) which rise from the base of one ceratohyal, and are inserted into the lower branchiostegals of the oppo- site side. The levator and abductor muscle (44, s) of the pectoral fin rises from the coracoid, and descends obliquely to its insertion by distinct fasciculi into the bases of the fin-rays : Muscles and Electric Batteries of the Toroerfo. Carus- , , t -i t \ the depressor and abductor (t) of the pectoral is deeper seated, and usually rises from the radius; it ascends to its insertion. There are two posterior or adductor muscles, whose fibres are oblique and decussate, but in opposite di- rections to the abductors, and tending also, in separate action, to raise or depress the fin. There are small special muscles in most fishes for divaricating the fin rays. The muscles of the pectoral fin ai-e well developed in sharks ; enormously so in the skate and torpedo, where the horizontal position of the fin involves further modifications. In Jig. 45. the letter s shows the ‘ levator pectoralis,’ and t the upper radiated muscle of the digits. * xxxiu. p. 35s. pi. 24. fig. 4. a. >1 4