202 LECTURE VIII. with special muscles; these processes are supported by peculiar cartilages more or less intimately connected with the proper olfactoiy cartilaginous sacs, and representing the superadded cartilages of the ‘alo3 nasi’ in higher Vertebrata.* They have their proper muscles; whence we must conclude that these Fishes scent as well as smell: i. e. actively search for odoriferous impressions by rapidly changing the current of water through the olfactory sac. The Organ of Sight makes its appearance in the lowest of Fishes, e. g. the Lancelot and Myxine, under as simple a form as in the Leech: a minute tegumentary follicle is coated by dark pigment, which receives the end of a special cerebral nerve. This simple eye- speck, the first mechanism for the appreciation of light, is repeated in the Amblyopsis spelceus {fig. 50. 2). Rudimental eyeballs covered by the skin exist in the Apterichthys emeus: the small, but more complex eyes of the Lepidosiren, with crystalline and vitreous humours, choroid and sclerotic tunics, are also covered by the skin; but this becomes transparent where it passes over them, and, ad- hering to the sclerotic, forms a ‘ cornea.’ The eyes of the Eel-tribe and the Siluroid Fishes are small: they are of moderate size in the Plagiostomes and Ganoids; but in most Osseous Fishes the eyes are remai’kable for their lai’ge size, which becomes enormous in some, e. g. Orthagoriseus (Prep. 1665. a), 3Iyripristis, Priacanthus. The eyes are usually placed in orbital cavities, one on each side of the head; only in the unsymmetrical Flat-fish are they both placed on the same side : in the Star-gazer {Uranoseopus) the eyes are ap- proximated on the upjier surface of a nearly cubical head, and are directed towards the heavens : in the Hammer-headed Sharks they are supported on long outward projecting pedicles. The optic nerve ( unfolded in fig. 57. a) usually perforates the eye- ball obliquely out of its axis; but sometimes directly in its axis. In Osseous Fishes it is compressed where it passes through the sclerotic and choroid, and then forms the retina by unfolding itself like a fan spread out and bent into the form of a cone, leaving a fissure {b') where the free lateral borders meet after lining about two-thirds of the hollow globe. This fissure extends, of course, from the entry of the nerve to the anterior margin of the retina, and through it a fold of the innermost layer of the choroid extends into the vitreous liumour, sometimes accompanied by the dark pigmental Ruyschian layer, as is shown in the preparation of the eye of the Bonito (No. 1651.). The fold of the vascular choroid, whether accompanied * See the description of these ‘ nasonfliigelknorpel ’ in xxi. p. 171.