THE SKULL OF FISHES. 16 times blend with, the supra-orbital plates, and circumscribe vacuities at the sides of the parietal region of tbe cranium. But tbe exterior of the skull is variously and singularly modified in tbe different Plagiostomous genera, development proceeding from tbe advanced cartilaginous stage just described, to establish peculiar plagios- tomous cbaracters, and to adapt tbe individual to its special sphere of existence. The same general confluence of cartilage, which pervades the protecting walls of the brain-case, characterises the appended arches of the cranium. A single strong suspensory pedicle, articulated to the side of the skull beneath the posterior angular (mastoid) pro- cess, has the hyoidean, and partly the mandibular *, arches attached to its lower end, the former by a close joint, the latter by two h'ga- ments. The maxillary arch, in Squatina, is suspended by a ligament from its ascending or palatal process, to the notch between the vomerine and the anterior supra-cranial cartilaginous plate. From this point the jaw is continued in one direction forwards and inwards, completing the arch by meeting its fellow, to which it has a close ligamentous junction; and in the opposite dii’ection, backwards and outwards, as a coalesced divei’ging appendage to the outer side of the tympanic pedicle, where it forms the more immediate articulation for the lower jaw, or mandibular arch, like the hypo-tympanic continu- ation of the upper maxillary bone in the Batrachia. Each lateral half or ramus consists of a single cartilage, the two being united together at the symphysis by ligament. Two slender labial cartilages are developed on each side the maxil- lary, and one on each side the mandibular arch; which complete the sides of the mouth. These cartilages Cuvier regarded as rudiments, respectively, of the intermaxillary, maxillary, and dentary bones; the dentigerous maxillary arch being his palatine bones, and the mandibular arch the articular piece of the lower jaw ; but both palatines and articulars co-exist with labial cartilages, like those of the Squatina, in a Brazilian Torpedo {Narcine), and at the same time with distinct pterygoid cartilages, (xxi. 1835, pi. v. Jig. 3. & 4.) j" Four or five short cartilaginous rays, in Squatina, diverge from tlie posterior margin of the tympanic pedicle, and support a mem- brane answering to the opercular flap in Osseous fishes; in their ultimate homology these rays are the skeleton of the diverging ap- pendage or limb of the tympano-mandibular arch. * Throughout these Lectures the term '‘mandible” is applied to the lower jaw, and the inverted cranial arch which that jaw completes is called “ mandibular : ” the arch formed by the upper jaw is called “ maxillary.” t It may be questioned wbetber the detached plate, called palatine by Dr. Ilcnlc, be not rather the cnto-iUerygoid.