VASCULAR SYSTEM OF FISHES. ^259 sac of a Myxine {Jig. 66. m) to be split through its plane, and each half to be glued by its outer smooth side to an intermediate septum, which would then support the opposite halves of two distinct sacs, and expose their vascular mucous surface to view. Produce these vascular surfaces into lamellm, pectinated processes, tufts or filaments, proceed- f I Two gill-sacs, Bdello- stonia. Two gill-sacs, Laniprey. ing from an intermediate arch or basis of support, and you have the gill of an ordinary osseous or cartilaginous fish. Such a gill is the homologue, not of a single gill-sac, but of the contiguous halves of two distinct gill-sacs, in the Myxines. Already, in the Lampreys, the first stage of this bi-partition may be seen {Jig. 67. m), and conse- quently in these Dermopteri, as in all higher fishes, a ditferent ar- tery goes to the anterior branchial surface of each sac or fissure from that which supplies the posterior branchial surface of the same fissure ; whilst one branchial artery is appropriated to each supporting septum or arch between the fissures. Before describing the branchial vessels it will be necessary to describe the organs upon which they ramify. In the Lampreys and Plagiostomes each supporting septum of the two (anterior and posterior) branchial mucous surfaces is attached to the pharyngeal and dermal integuments by its entire peripheral margin, and the streams of water flow out by as many fissures in the skin (ib. k) as those by which it enters from the pharynx (ib. : these are called ‘ fixed giUs,’ and the species possessing them are characterised as ‘ pisces branchiis fixis.’ In all Osseous, Plec- tognathic, Lophobranchiate, Ganoid, and Holo- cephalous fishes the outer border of the sup- porting branchial arch is unattached to the skin, and plays freely backwards and forwards, with its gill-surfaces, in a common gill-cavity which has a single outlet, usually in the form of a vertical fis- sure : the species with this structure are called ‘ pisces branchiis liberis.’ In the Myxine the outlets of the six lateral branchial sacs {^g. 68. m) on each side are produced into short tubes, which open into a longitudinal canal {k), directed backwards, and discharging the branchial stream by an orifice (4) near the middle 6S Branchial organs, Myxine.