DEVELOPMENT OF FISHES. 291 stages of growth, being developed more eonsecutively. The approxi- mated or confluent abdominal apertures of the oviduct (ib. b) are an- terior to the ovarium, between the liver and the peri- cardial septum ; they form together a heart-shaped opening, with entire margins, attached by two diverg- ing ligaments (ib. c) to the abdominal walls. The ovi- ducts narrow, and with thin tunics at their commence- ment (ib. d d), diverge from eacb other, arching over the fore part of the ovaria, and then descend along the ventral surface of the kidneys, to terminate at the lateral and posterior parts of the cloaca. A glandular body (ib. e) is developed in their coats, after the first fifth or sixth part of their extent, and their terminal half or third part (ib.y) is dilated: the sizes of the glandular and of the uterine parts of the oviduct are usually in inverse proportion : in the oviparous Plagi- ostomes the gland is large, the uterus small, and the reverse obtains in the viviparous species. The inner surface of the Fallopian portion of the oviduct pre- sents longitudinal or very oblique folds of the delicate Sp/nax* HmiTer’ ™ucous membrane; but near the aperture the folds resolve themselves into minute compressed villi. The glandular part varies in structure as well as in size in different species. In the viviparous Dog-fish (Spinax acanthias) it consists of two elliptic flattened lobes, of laminated structure, the free surface pre- senting minute transverse stria3, beset with pores, the orifices of secerning tubes, the aggregate of which composes the layer of glandular substance. In the oviparous Homelyn {JRaia maculata) the lobes of the large rudimental glands are reniform. Prep. 3234. shows well the inner free margins and interspaces of the close-set layers of secerning tubes. In the Galeus the lobes of the gland present the same essential structure, but are conical, subspiral, and hollow. The uterine part of the oviduct in the viviparous Dog-fish has the lining membrane produced into longitudinal folds, with wavy margins, each of which contains a single vessel following its sinuosi- ties, and sending off branches to the parietes of the oviduct: the folds gradually subside at the outlet of the oviduct. In the ovo- viviparous Dog-fish (^Sci/llium') the folds of the lining membrane of the corresponding part of the oviduct are oblique, and their vessels are derived from trunks in the walls of the oviduct, and are dis- tributed in minute and tortuous ramifications on the folds (prep. 2683). The preparation (No. 2684) of the Smooth Dog-fish (Catois lev is ; Emissole lisse, Cuvier) shows several uterine cotyledons developed