LKCTURE XII. 304 dorsal fins assume a dusky margin; the lateral bars begin to be con- cealed by a silvery pigment; and the migratory dress, characteristic of the Salmon fry, or ‘ smolt,’ is assumed. The fish now begin to congregate in shoals and to migrate seaward. Incubation. —Eckstroem first published a clear account, in 1831*, of the singular marsupial economy of the Pipe-fishes. In the Syngna- tlius aciis the sexes come together in the month of April, and the ova pass from the female and are transferred into the subcaudal pouch of the male, being fecundated in transitu, and the valves of the pouch immediately close over them. In the month of July the young are hatched and quit the pouch, but they follow their father, and return for shelter into their nursery when danger threatens. Aristotle signalises the Phycis, since recognised as a Mediterra- nean species of Gobius, as the only sea-fish that malces a nest and deposits its spawn therein. Olivi confirmed the statement, and de- scribes the nest as being composed of sea-weeds (algi and zostera), adding that the male fish guards the female during the act of ovi- position and the young fry during their development, f Dr. Hancock has observed similar habits in certain fresh-water siluroid fishes of Demerara called ‘ Hassars,’ which belong to the genus Callichthys : the Round-headed Hassar forms its nest of grass, the Flat-headed Hassar of leaves. “ They are monogamous; both male and female remain by the side of the nest till the spawn is hatched, with as much solicitude as a hen guards her eggs, and tliey courageously attack any assailant. Hence the negroes fre- quently take them by putting their hands into the water close to the nest; on agitating which, the male Hassar springes furiously at them, and is thus captured.” Through the kind interest of the Earl of Enniskillen, a trustee of the Hunterian Museum, a specimen of the nest with the spawn and parent fish, has been transmitted to the College and is now placed in the Hunterian series of Nidamental structures (No. 3787. b. b). J * See also xxxix. ii. p. 327. t xh- P- 6- I This specimen was exhibited at the Lecture. END OF THE SECOND VOLEHE. London : Printed by A. Spottiswoodt:, New-Street-Scpiare.