TELEOLOGY OP THE SKELETON OP FISHES. 151 remind the homologist of their condition in the imperfectly developed skull of tlie embryos of higher animals; but this condition is especi- ally subservient to the peculiar and extensive movements of the javrs, and of the bones connected with the hyoid and branchial apparatus. Not any of the limbs, propeidy so called, of Fishes, are prehensile; the mouth may be propelled and guided by them to the food, but the act of prehension must be performed entirely by the jaws. Hence in many fishes both upper and lower maxillary bones enjoy movements of protraction and retraction, as well as of opening and shutting. The firm connections of the upper jaw, and wedged fixity of the bone suspending the under jaw, which characterise the higher Reptiles and Mammals, would be imperfections in the Fish ; in which, therefore, such characters are not only absent, but special development in the opposite direction, not unfrequently, goes so far as to produce the most admirable mechanical adjustments of the maxillary apparatus, compensating for the absence of hands and arms like those which have been exemplified in the instance of the Epibulus insidiator (p. lOS.fig. 37.). We must guard ourselves, however, from inferring absolute superiority of structure from apparent complexity. The lower jaw of fishes might at first view seem more complex than that of man, because it consists of a greater number of pieces, each ramus being composed of two or three, and sometimes more separate bones. But, by parity of reasoning, the dental system of that jaw might be regarded as more complex, because it supports often three times, or ten times, perhaps fifty times the number of teeth which are found in the human jaw. We here perceive, however, only an illustration of the law of vegetative repetition as the character of inferior organ- isms ; and we may view in the same light the multiplication of pieces of which the supporting pedicle of the jaw is composed in Fishes. But the great size and the double glenoid or trochlear articulation of that pedicle, are developments beyond, and in advance of the condi- tion of the bones supporting the lower jaw in Mammalia, and relate both to the increase of the capacity of the mouth in Fishes for the lodgment of the great hyoid and branchial apparatus, and to the support of the opercula or doors which open and close the branchial chambers. The division of the long tympanic pedicle of Osseous Fishes into several partly overlapping jneces adds to its strength, and by permitting a slight elastic bending of the whole diminislies the liability to fracture. The enormous size, moreover, of the tympano-mandibular arch, and of its diverging appendages, contributes to ensure tliat pro- portion of the head to the trunk which is best adapted for the pro- gressive motion of the fish througli the water. But witliout the