93 THE SKULE OF OSSEOUS FISHES. bone of Antliropotomy. All the parts of the occipital vertebra are developed from or ossified in the pre-existing cartilaginous cranium. The second ring of bones, or that which encircles the mesencepha- lon, includes the ‘ basi-sphenoid,’ the ‘ ali-sphenoids,’ the ‘ parietals,’ and the ‘ mastoids ’ 30. ir. & fig. 32.). The hasi-sphenoid (centrum of mesencephalic vertebra, ib. 5), is ' always connate with the pre-sphenoid, {ib. 9), forming with it a long subtriedal bone (basi-pre-sphenoid*), usually bifurcate posteriorly, and more or less expanded beneath the cranial cavity; it is then continued for- wards (sometimes after sending out a pair of lateral processes, as in the Perch, more commonly without such processes) along the base of the in- ter-orbital space to near the fore-part of the roof of the mouth: its pos- tebra, viewed from behind: Gadus Morr/iua. , • , tenor extremity is joined by a squa- mous suture, as in Diodon, to the basi-occipital; or more commonly, as in the Cod, is firmly wedged by a kind of double gomphosis into the basi-occipital: its expanded part supports the petrosals and ali- sphenoids : the pre-sphenoidal prolongation (9) articulates with the or- bito-sphenoids and the ethmoid, when this is ossified, and it terminates forwards by a cavity receiving the pointed end of the vomer. It is this portion of the basi-pre-sphenoid which manifests the loss of sym- metry in the flat fishes {Pleuronectidce), being twisted up to one side of the skull. The basi-pre-sphenoid varies in form with that of the head in general, being longest and narrowest in long and narrow skulls, and the converse ; the whole of its upper surface is commonly rough for articulation with the petrosals and ali sphenoids ; rarely does any portion enter into the direct formation of the cranial cavity, and then, perhaps, e. g. in the Cod, a small surface may support the pituitary sac. When it enters more largely into the formation of the floor of Disarticulated neural arch of parietal ver- * The ossification of the basi-pre-sphenoid proceeds from a common centre; but this does not invalidate its general homology with the bodies of the second and third cranial vertebra?, as manifested by tlieir neurapophyses (alisphenoids and orbito- sphenoids) and spines (parietal and frontal), any more than the ossification from a single centre of the common supporting bifurcate bone of the neural and hatmal spines of the caudal fin disproves the inference that that single bone represents the coalesced bodies of the terminal vertebrae to which those spines belong. The ])ar- tially united radius and ulna of the frog are ossified from a common centre at their coalesced proximal ends.