286 LECTURE XII. LECTURE XII. GENERATION AND DEVELOPMENT OP FISHES. ‘ MALE ORGANS. All fishes are dioecious or of distinct sex. The male parts of generation present a progressive gradation of complexity from the essential gland, or testis, as a single organ distinguishable only by microscopic examination of its eontents from an ovarium, to a more definite and concentrated form of testis with complete bipartition, then to the development of a proper duct or ‘ vas de- ferens,’ next of a vesicula seminalis and prostate, afterwards of an intromittent organ, and finally of superadded ‘ claspers,’ or mecha- nical instruments for retention of the female in coitu. The pre- paration of the Petromyzon marmus (No. 2373.) shows the testis in the form of a series of thin transverse lobes, or folds closely attached by a duplicature of the peritoneum to the median line of the back of the abdomen, between the kidneys; the extension of the over-lapping oblique folds to the right and left of the line of attachment indicates the duplex character of the gland. Its tissue consists of small spherical cells filled with the minute coi'puscular spermatozoa.* These escape by dehiscence of the cells and rupture of the peritoneal covering into the abdominal cavity, and are expelled by reciprocal pressure of the intertwined sexes, from the peritoneal outlets at the cloaca. The Eel closely resembles the Lamprey in the general form and condition of the male organs; but the right and left sides of the plicated testis are more distinct, and the spermatic cells are more numerous and minute. The Sand-Eel {Ammodytes, No. 2378.) has a single testis, com- pacted into an elongated triedral form, and impressed by a median longitudinal fissure : it usually inclines a little to the right side. In the Perch the single testis inclines to the left; in the Blenny and the Loach it lies in the middle line. In these osseous fishes the glandular part of the testis is inclosed in a proper fibrous capsule, * Sir E. Home and Mr. Bauer, misled by this close resemblance to an ovarium, inferred the identity of tlie testis with that body, described the kidneys as the testis, and the Lampreys as hermaphrodite fishes. Hunter had recognised the true structure, (vit. t. iv. pp. 204—206. pi. 59. fig. 1. h.) Mr. Bauer gives a good microscopic view of the cellular structure of the testis in Phil. Trans. 1828, pi. xv.