NERVOUS SYSTEM OE FISHES. 199 roots of the spinal nerves in Osseous Fishes, is that given by Mr. Swan from the Cod. * The dorsal root sends a filament {fig. 56. a) upwards, which joins a ventral filament {h) from the preceding nerve, and forms the ‘ ramus dorsalis’: the dorsal root sends two filaments (c) downwards, which unite to- gether, and with a ventral filament (e) of the same nerve to form the ‘ ramus ventralis ’ (v). The fila- ment of the ventral root sent to the ramus dorsalis of the succeeding nerve perforates the lower division of the dorsal root of its own nerve. Thus each spinal nerve forms a dorsal and a ventral branch ; the ramus dorsalis includes a sensory filament of its own nerve, and a motory filament of the antecedent nerve : the ramus ventralis is formed by a motory and a sensory filament of its own nei’ve ; both rami ‘ ven- Connections of spinal tralcs ’ and ‘ dorsales ’ are associated together, and Cod. (Mr. Swan.) the vagal and trigeminal nerves through the medium of the great ‘ nervus lateralis.’ The roots of the nerves distributed to the free, exploratory, pectoral rays of the Gurnards, rise from special ganglionic swellings of the cervical portion of the dorsal myelonal columns. Sympathetic.—In the Myxinoid Fishes this nerve, or system of nerves, is represented by the intestinal branch continued from the confluence of the two nervi vagi. The best illustrations of the sympathetic in ordi- nary Osseous and Plagiostomous Fishes are those given by Mr. Swan, from the Cod| and the Skate. | Each trunk of the nerve extends in Osseous Fishes, from the side of the basis cranii (not entering the cranial cavity) to the tail, accompanying the aorta along the haemal canal. Its first or anterior communication is with a branch of the fifth, and a filament is sent forward to the ciliary ganglion ; and, in the Carp a filament joins the abducent nerve, to which Cuvier thought he had also traced a filament of the sympathetic in the Cod: the sympathetic next communicates with that anterior portion of the vagus (the glosso-pharyngeal ?) which joins part of the acoustic nerve, and supplies the first partition of the gills : the sympathetic trunks also receive accessions from the trunks of the vagus ; and, converging, intercommunicate by a cross branch : they then send nerves which join the gastric branches of the vagi, in order to form or join a splanchnic ganglion and jilexus on the mesenteric artery from which plexus branches are sent to the intestines, pancreas, and spleen. The sympathetic trunks are continued on each side of the • LIV. pi. viii. I Ib. pi. vi. I Ib. pi. ix. o 4