52 Lecture hi. type to be further exemplified at this low step in the series, but rather be prepared for a divergence into individual peculiarities; and this is illusti’ated by the complex development of the visceral arches for the support of the heart and gills, which are homologous to the branchial arches in higher fishes. Yet the analogy of these parts in the Lamprey, which Muller has termed the cartilaginous basket of the branchias (xxi. p. 254.) to the modifications of the pleurapophyses, hasmapophyses and their spines, constituting the ribs and sternum in the air-breathing Vertebrates, is so close that we may be justified in describing them in connexion with the vertebral column. Seven cartilaginous processes, analogous to pleurapophyses, but homologous with epibranchials 11. 48, 48), came off from a car- tilaginous tract on both sides of the chorda dorsalis, one below each al- ternate neurapophysis (ib. w) : after a short course outwards and down- wards the jirocess divides into three branches, one passing forwards, one backwards, and the intermediate process (cerato-branchial, 47), or continuation of the quasi-rib, downwards : the anterior and posterior processes of contiguous ribs coalesce and form arches above the branchial apertures (1, 2, to 7), which are circumscribed by similar arches, formed below by analogous branches there given oflf from the cerato-branchial; this then descends, bends inwards, dilates, and is perforated; then contracts and joins a broad and long cartilaginous hypo-branchial (45), or quasi-sternum, typifying by its double row of perforations that complex bone in birds. The anterior branches of the first cerato-branchial unite to form a vertical arch, convex for- wards ; the posterior pair (47") expand and unite to form the per- forated cartilaginous case, lined by the pericardium, which contains the heart : pursuing the analogy of this complex cartilaginous branchial and cardiac skeleton with the thorax of higher Vertebrata, we might regard the posterior processes of the ribs as foreshadowing the costal appendages of birds. Homologically, the entire apparatus answers to the branchial skeleton of higher fishes, a part which Geoffroy St. Hilaire regards as a repetition of the thorax of air- breathing Vertebrata, but Avhich the metamorphoses of the Batrachia prove to be a development of the visceral skeleton in immediate con- nexion with the hyoidcan arch.