252 LECTURE X. In the Plagiostomes with the longitudinal spiral valve the main root of the portal vein is concealed in the free, thickened, muscular margin of that valve * : the trunk of the intestinal vein is lodged also in an internal fold of the mucous coat in the Lamprey: in the Plagiostomes and Ganoids with transverse coils of the spiral valve, the venous blood is collected into an external intestinal vein. In the Paddle-fish this vein joins the vein of the spleen {Jiff. 61. n), and then, with the duodenal, pancreatic, and gastric veins, forms the por- tal trunk. Professors Eschricht and Muller j- found, in the Tunny, that the veins of the stomach, intestine, pyloric appendages, and spleen, respectively subdivided into numerous minute venules, which interlaced with cor- responding ‘ retia mirabilia ’ of the arterial branches sent from the cseliac axis to the same viscera, and formed pyriform masses of vessels before entei’ing the liver. In a few Osseous Fishes, as the Shad, some of the caudal branches of the vertebral system of veins anastomose with the veins of the rectum, and thus form part of the roots of the portal sys- tem. But the most interesting modification of the portal system of Fishes is that discovered by Retzius in the Glutinous Hag. In this and also in other Myxinoids, the genital and intestinal veins form a common trunk along the line of attachment of the me- sentery : all the gastric veins that do not empty themselves into the cardinal vein also join the great mesenteric vein. This vein advances to the space between the pei'icardium and the right supra- renal body, receives the anterior vein, of that body (its posterior one joining the cardinal vein), and dilates into an elongated sinus, which is said to contract, as if it were a portal heart. The anterior part of this sinus receives a vein from the right anterior parietes of the body, which is formed by the union of all those veins of the muscular parts there which do not join the right jugular vein: the portal arterial vein is sent off from the posterior end of the pulsating sac, near the entry of the mesenteric vein, and goes backwards to beneath the two livers, and there divides, enters, and ramifies in each. The hepatic vein of the hinder and larger liver enters the common trunk or sinus formed by the union of the two cardinal veins with the left j ugular: the hepatic vein of the smaller liver joins the termination of the left jugular vein, and they togetlier end in the opposite side of the same common sinus. In the Plagiostomes the right jugular and cardinal veins unite, and, receiving the vein of the pectoral fin (brachial vein), and a superficial vein from the head (external jugular), form a short transverse t Cl. * Duvernoy, xcvi. p. 274.