231 DIGESTIVE SYSTEM OE FISHES. by a sphincter; in the Lepidosiren it is further defended by a soft valvular fold like an epiglottis.* The alimentary canal is usually short, simple, but capacious in fishes; in a few instances, e. g. Branchiostoma (fig- 46. p/«, as), hlyzinoids (xxi. Neiu’ologie, tab. iii. fig- 6.), Exocetus, Lepidosiren (xxxiii. pl.25.), it extends in almost a straight line from the pharynx to the anus: but it is generally disposed in folds and sometimes in numerous convolutions. It is primarily divided into a gastric and an intestinal portion by the constriction called ‘pylorus.’ The gastric portion is subdivided into ‘ oesophagus ’ and ‘ stomach,’ the boundary line being more commonly indicated by a change of struc- ture of the lining membrane than by a cardiac constriction; the in- testinal portion is subdivided into a ‘ small ’ and a ‘ large intestine; ’ the latter usually answering to the ‘intestinum rectum,’ and the boundary, when well defined, being a constriction and an internal valvular fold; but very rarely marked by an external ciecum. The alimentary canal is situated wholly or in part in the abdominal cavity, to the walls of which it is usually suspended by mesogastric and mesenteric duplicatures of the peritoneal lining membrane of the abdomen. When not wholly so situated, the extra-abdominal part is not contained in a thoracic division of the cavity, but extends beyond the peritoneal region into the muscular mass of the tail; a portion of the intestines, for example, lies between the right myo- commata and the hiemal spines in the Sole. The peritoneal serous membrane, which defines the abdominal cavity, extends anteriorly to the pericardium, from which it is separated by a double aponeurotic septum {fig. 61. o) : it is continued along the back over the ventral surface of the kidneys and the air-bladder, when this exists, a little way beyond the anus, and is reflected upon the alimentary canal, (ib. d. i), the liver {11), the spleen {n), the pancreas (/i), or its ciEcal rudiments, the ovaria or testes, and the urinary bladder, if this be present. In many fishes the peritoneum does not form a shut sac, but communicates with the external surface, by one {Braiichios- toma, fig. 46. od, Lepidosiren, xxxm. pi. 25. fig. 1. a), or two (Lamprey, fig. 74. I, Eel, Salmon, Sturgeon, Planirostra, Chima3ra, and Plagiostomes, figs. 73. and 75. 1), orifices, situated, except in the Lancelet, in or near the cloaca. The peritoneal orifices give exit to the generative products (milt or roe) in the Lancelet, Myxinoids, Lampreys, Muraenidae, and Salmonidaa, but not in the Lepidosiren and Plagiostomes. In the Myxinoids, the Ainmocetes, the Sturgeon, the Chimaarae and the Plagiostomes, the peritoneum communicates also Avith the pericardium, f * XXXIII. p. 3'12. Fig.j.d. f LXIX. pi. 8.