120 LECTURE V. fishes, accord with the characters of all other organs on their first introduction into the animal series. The single row of fewer ossi- cles supporting the rays, obviously represents the double carpal series in Mammals ; and the bones of the bracbium and anti-brachium seem in like manner to be reduced to a single series, unless the humeral segment be confluent with the arch. In the ventral fin no segment is developed between the arch and the digital rays: it is in this respect like the branchiostegal fin. The pectoral fin is directed backwards, and being applied, prone, to the lateral surface of the trunk, the ray or digit answering to the thumb is towards the ventral surface. The lowest of the bones sup- porting the carpus should, therefore, be regarded as the radius 19. and 30. 5s), holding the position which that bone un- questionably does in the similarly disposed pectoral fin of the Whales and Enaliosaurs. The upper bone, which commonly afibrds support to a smaller proportion of the carpal row, may be com- pared to the ulna {ib. 54). As a third small bone is articulated to the coracoid, in some Osseous Fishes, at least in their immature state, the name of humerus may be confined to that bone : but in these it is generally above and on the inner side of the ulna, and seems to be rather a dismemberment of it. In the young Tench, however, the humerus is a small ossicle, firmly attached to the inner surface of the coracoid, and articulated at the other end to both the ulna and the I’adius, but not reaching to the carpus. The ulna is beneath it, and of an annular form ; the radius is much larger, and of a triangular form, articulated by its smallest side with the humerus and ulna, by its an- terior and outer border with the coracoid, and by its upper and hinder border with the carpus. In the Cod, Haddock, and most other fishes, there is no separate representative of the humerus: in these the ulna is a short and broad plate of bone, deeply emarginate an- teriorly, attached by suture to the coracoid, and by the opposite expanded end to the radius, and to one or two of the carpal ossicles, and directly to the upper or ulnar ray of the fin. Tlie radius (ib. 55) is a crescentic or sub-triangular plate with an upper emargination completing an interosseous foramen with that of the ulna; articulated by a small part of its upper and anterior angle and by its produced lower and anterior angle with the coracoid, so as to permit a slight movement, and having its upper and hinder border equally divided between the ulna and the carpus. In the Bull-head and Sea-scorpion (Coitus), the radius and ulna are widely separated, and two of the large square carpal plates in their' inter- space articulate directly with the coracoid. A similar arrangement obtains in the Gurnards and the Wolf-fish; but the carpals in the