126 LKCTUKE V. A series of developments may be traced from the primitive form of the appendage, as a simple plate, spine, or ray, through the many- jointed single ray in the Lepidosiren and the bifurcate jointed ray in the Amphiuma didactylum, up to the wing of the Bird and the arm of the Man, without the essential nature of the part being lost sight of; for all these forms of the pectoral member are, in their ultimate or general homology, ‘ diverging ’ or ‘ radiated appendages ’ of a ha3mal arch ; but not ‘ribs,’ nor ‘ vertebras.’ We may further define the fore-limb, wing, or pectoral fin to be the radiated appendage of the arch called ‘ scapular,’ and this to be the ‘ haemal arch of the occi- pital vertebra.’ There remain to complete the analysis of the skeleton of the Cod, here taken as a type of Osseous Fishes, the bones of the ventral pair of fins and the cranial parts of the dermal skeleton. The rays of the ventral fin are supported by two bones, which represent the lower portion of an imperfect inverted or hasmal arch; each bone is a sub-triangular bifurcate plate in the Cod tribe, with its apex an- terior and superiox’'^ joined by ligament to the same part of the cor- responding bone, and suspended beneath the coracoid arch. To the outer part of the base of each suspending bone the rays of the ventral fin are attached without the intermedium of any series of short ossicles; in fact, the representatives of tarsal, tibial, and femoral bones are wanting in all fishes, and the lower half of the pelvic arch, {pv the pitbic hones, Jig. 19. 63), and the peripheral and essential parts of the fin, the metatarso-phalangeal ‘^ovateA rays {ib. 7o), alone repre- sent the hinder or lower locomotive member in fishes. In Acan- thopterygian Fishes one or more of the anterior rays of the ventral fin may be hard unjointed spines, as in the other fins ; in the Malacopte- rygians all the ventral rays are soft, multi-articulate, and bifurcate. * In no fish is this incomplete pelvic arch directly attached to the vertebral column. If we may judge from the position in which the ventral fin appears, in the development of the embryo fish, as a little bud attached to the skin of the belly, and from the fact that all the * Ichthyologists avail themselves of the number and kind of rays in the several single and parial fins to characterise the species of fishes, and adopt an abbreviated formula to express those characters : thus Mr. Yarrell (xxxix. i. p. 4.) uses the fol- lowing with reference to the Perch : — d. 15, 1 + 13 : p. 14 : v. 1 + 5 : a. 2 + 8 ; c. 17 : which signifies that n., the dorsal fin, has in the first fin 15 rays, all .spinous; in the second fin, 1 spinous + (plus) 13 rays that are soft, p., the pectoral fin, 14 rays, all soft, v., the ventral fin, with 1 spinous ray+ 5 that are soft, a., tlie anal’fin, with 2 spinous rays+ 8 that are soft, c., the caudal fin, 17 rays. The formula of the fin-rays in the Haddock is : n. 1 5, 21, 19 : p. 18: v. 6 : a. 24, 18 : c. 44. : i- e. all the rays are soft, and there are 15 rays in the first dorsal, 21 in the second dorsal, and 19 in the third dorsal; 18 rays in the pectoral fin ; 6 rays in the ventral fin ; 24 rays in the first anal, and 18 in the second anal fins ; and 44 rays in the caudal fin.