107 TUE SKULL OF OSSEOUS FISHES, into many bony pieces, a condition which seems to have prevailed in some of the ancient extinct Salamandroid fishes ; for example, the genus of the Old-Red-Sandstone, which I have called Dendrodus. In the Polypterus the maxillary is large and undivided on each side; it supports teeth, and sends inwards a broad palatine plate to join the vomer and the palatine bone ; thus acquiring a fixed position and all the normal features of the bone in higher animals. The maxillary bone is very diminutive in the Siluroid fishes, and appears, with the premaxillary, to be entirely wanting in certain Eels {Murcenidce). The premaxillary, or intermaxillary bone (haemal spine of nasal vertebra, fig. 30, 22), one of a symmetrical pair in the Cod and most other osseous fishes, is moderately long and slender, slightly curved, expanded and notched at both extremities : the anterior end is bent upwards, forming the nasal process, and is attached by lax ligaments to the nasal bone and prenasal cartilage, to the palatine, and to the anterior ends of the maxillary bones. The premaxillaries are movably connected to each other by their anterior ends; the nasal processes are separated by the prenasal cartilage, the lower or outer branches project freely downwards and outwards: the labial border of each premaxillary is beset with teeth, whilst the maxillary bone is quite edentulous in most osseous fishes, as in the Cod. By those who may regard the prenasal cartilage as a vestige of a fifth cranial vertebra the premaxillaries may be viewed as its inferior arch: but such an arch would be incomplete, widely open ; the piers or crura diverg- ing, instead of converging, to unite, like other inferior or haemal arches. Li the Diodon the premaxillaries and their lamellated dental apparatus coalesce and constitute a single symmetrical beak-shaped bone : Muller also found a single premaxillary in the Mormyrus. The confluent premaxillaries constitute the sword-like anterior pro- longation of the snout in Xiphias, and are firmly and immovably articulated with the pre-nasal and maxillary bones, in both the Sword-fish and the Garpike. The premaxillaries are commonly more extended in the transverse than in the vertical direction, which latter most prevails in Mammals : but there are many examples in Fishes where their development is equal in both directions. The vertical extension, which forms the nasal branch of the premaxillary, is of unusual length in the fishes with protractile snouts, as, for ex- ample, in the Picarels {Menidm\ the Dories (^Zeus), and in certain Wrasses, as Coricus, and especially the Epilndus, or Spartts in- sidiatnr of Pallas {Jig. 37, 22).* In tliis fish the nasal brancli of * .See Cuvier and ValencienneR, Hist. der. I’oissons, (. xlv. p. 92. The liypn- , tympanic or suspensory pedicle of the lower jaw is there called the ‘ malar ’ bone.