36 LECXUliE II. The thinnest-walled and hollowest pneumatic bone of the bird of flight was first solid, next a marrow-bone, and finally the case of an air-cell. The solid bones of the Penguin, and the medullary femur of the Aptei’yx and Dinornis, are arrested stages of that course of development through whieh the pneumatic wing-bone of the soaring Eagle had previously passed. In proceeding after the foregoing survey of the general nature, chemical constitution, development, growth, and structure of the osseous system, to the description of the skeleton in the vertebrate animals, there next remains to define a bone; and the endeavour to do this has not been the least difficult part of my task, with re- ference to the applicability of the definition to the vertebrate series in general. To the human anatomist the question—what is a honel — may ap- pear a very simple, if not a needless one : he will most probably reply that a bone is any single piece of osseous matter entering into the composition of the adult sheleton; and, agreeably with this definition, he will enumerate about 260 bones in the human skeleton. Soemmering, Avho includes the thirty-two teeth in his enumeration, reckons from 259 to 264 bones ; but he counts the os spheno-occipitale as a single bone, and also regards, with previous anthrojiotomists, the os temporis, the os sacrum, and the os innominatum, as individual bones; the sternum, he says, may include two or three bones, &c. (xip. p. 6.) : but, in Birds, the os occipitale is not only anchylosed to the sphenoid, but these early coalesce with the parietals and frontals ; and, in short, the entire cranium proper consists, according to the above definition, of a single bone. Blumenbach, however, applying the human standard, describes it as composed of the proper bones of the cranium consolidated, as it were, into a single piece (xrv. p. 56.). And in the same spirit most modern anthropotomists, influenced by the comparatively late period at which the sphenoid becomes anchy- losed to the occipital in Man, regard them as two essentially distinct bones. In directing our survey downwards in the mammalian scale, we speedily meet Avith examples of persistent divisions of bones Avhich are single in Man. Thus it is rare to find the basi-occipital confluent Avith the basi-sphenoid in mammalian quadrupeds ; and before Ave quit that class Ave meet Avith adults in some of the marsupial and monotre- matous species, for example, in aa^IucIi the supra-occipital, ‘‘ pars occipitalis proprie sic dicta,” of Soemmering, is distinct from the con- dyloid parts, and these from the basilar or cuneiform process of the os occipitis: in short, the single occipital bone in Man is four bones in the Opossum or Echidna; and just as the human cranial bones lose their individuality in the Bird, so do those of the IMaisupial lose theii