249 VASCULAR SYSTEM OF FISHES. lymph, of Fishes is colourless and transparent: both contain cor- puscles, or centres of assimilative force, five or six times smaller than the blood-discs, and manifesting an inherent power of development and change, some being granulai’, others with a capsule and in the con- dition of nucleated cells. Professor Stannius * has described ash-coloured bodies, lying near the pylorus and spleen, which contain a whitish fluid laden with mi- croscopic granules, much smaller than the blood-discs : he regards them, apparently with justice, as a residuum of the foetal vitellicle or yolk-bag. THE VEINS. As the blood moves in a circle, it signifies little at what point we commence the description of the parts concerned in the circulation, since there also we must end. But as, in tracing the progress of the nutriment through the organs concerned in its cliylification and san- guification, we were led by the absorbents to the veins, we may begin Avith them the account of the circulating system. The tunics of the veins of fishes are unusually thin, and their valves fcAv: though commonly in the form of tubes, yet they more frequently dilate into sinuses than in the higher classes, and traces of the ditfused condition of the venous receptacles, so common in the Invertebrata, are not wanting in Fishes ; as, for example, [in the fissures of the renal organs, Avhere the veins seem to lose their proper tunics, or to blend them Avith the common cellular tissue of the part; and in the great cavernous sinus beneath the abdominal aorta, receiving the renal and genital veins in the Lamprey. The jugular veins of Osseous Fishes and the hepatic veins of the Rays form remarkable sinuses. The veins of fishes constitute two well-defined systems ; viz. the ‘ vertebral’ and the ‘ visceral,’ ansAvering to the division of the nerves and muscles into those of ‘animal’ and ‘organic’ life: the portal system is a subdivision of the visceral one, but also frequently in- cludes part of the vertebral system of veins, especially in the Myx- ines, in which the portal sinus forms a common meeting-point be- tAveen portions of both systems, f The vertebral system of veins commences by a series of capillary roots:}; in the integuments and muscles, Avhich unite to form branches * CIV. p. ;J9. •f Retzius, in xxi. “ Gofasssystem,’* 1841, p. IG. I The capillary system of vessels consists in Fishes, as in other Vertcbrata, of minute but similar-sized tubules, capable of carrying a single file of blood-discs, and connecting the termination ot the arteries ■\vitli the commencement of the veins.