14 INTRODUCTORY LECTURE. Reptiles are cold-blooded, like Fishes; but all of them possess lungs, or organs for breathing atmospheric air. Most of the class exercise the function of these organs; but some, retaining gills, chiefly breathe water ; and those with lungs alone are less dependent on respiration than the higher Vertebrata. Hence the Reptiles were defined by Linnasus as “ arbitrary breathers,”—“ Pulmones spirantes arhitrarie^'—and were called by him “ Amphibia^' The blood is remarkable for the lai’ge relative size and constant elliptical form of its red particles 4. d, e), which, as in Fishes, have a distinct granular nucleus. And, what is more remarkable, the size increases in the ratio of the persistence of the branchial organs. You may, for example, discern the blood-discs with the naked eye in the Siren lacertina {fig. 4./*). The typical condition of the heart in Reptiles is three-chambered ; having two auricles and one ventricle; one auricle receives the venous blood from the general system, the other that which has undergone chemical change in the lungs : both kinds of blood are mixed in the ventricle, and distributed in that state, partly to the lungs again, partly to the general system. The breath- ing apparatus is so far inferior to that of fishes, as that the whole mass of circulating fluid is not distributed through it; but this appa- rently retrograde step in development seems as if preparatory to the establishment of a more perfect respiratory system, adapted to the exigencies of higher classes of animals. Always, however, in using or hearing this metaphorical language, it is to be borne in mind, that each condition, which represents a step in progress as regards the series of species, is complete and perfect in relation to the particular species in which it is manifested. The nervous system of Reptiles presents an advance in the larger proportional size of the cerebral lobes ; but the whole brain is still a mere linear series of smooth ganglionic masses, and the cerebellum is often inferior, in size and complexity, to that in Fishes. The eyes are smaller than in Fishes, but generally more perfect and defended by eyelids : the ears are provided with a vibratory membrane and chamber, called the “tympanum:” but the most characteristic feature of Reptiles in contrast with Fishes, which the organs of the senses present, is the establishment of a communi- cation from the eye, the ear, and the nose respectively, witli the respiratory tract or mouth; the eye by the lachrymal duct, the ear by the Eustachian tube, and the nose by its prolongation into a meatus, with a posterior opening into the mouth, or fauces. This latter character the Siren manifests, but not the Lepidosiren, nor any true Fish. The sense of touch must be enjoyed by the naked