/ LECTURE III. Cuvier appears to have overlooked the peripheral longitudinal lamellte: he says, “ dans certains grands squales, le maximus, par ex- emple, ce sout des lames cylindriques, toutes concentriques, toutes separees par des couches d’un cartilage tendre,” &c. (^Legons d’Anat. Comji. 1835, i. p. 127.) Our compilers have copied this description, and, as usual, have applied it to the vertebras of Fishes in general. In the Squatina, the part of the vertebral body included by the ter- minal cones is, indeed, composed of concentric layers, decreasing in breadth as they approach the centre; but, in the Cestracion, there are no concentric layers, but only longitudinal lamellae, radiating from the centre to the circumference, and giving off short lateral plates as they diverge: the most common disposition of the osseous matter in the vertebral bodies of the Plagiostomes is a combination of longitudinal and cylindrical plates, as in the Selache. In the Tope {Galeus communis), as well as in most Sharks which possess the nictitating eyelid, may be seen the highest stage of ver- tebral ossification in the Chondropterygian Fishes: the external surface, as well as the terminal concavities, of the centrum, are covered by a smooth osseous crust, except at the openings of the four conical cavities, which, as in Selache, correspond with the bases of the neur- and par-apophyses. In most Sharks the principle of vegetative re^ietition is manifested in the numerous centres of os- sification in the cartilaginous neural and hiemal arches : four stellate points, for example, represent the neurapophysis in Galeus, and as many smaller points the neural spine: in most other Squalian genera the centrum supports two osseous pieces on each side of the spinal canal: one of these, by its position above the neural canal of the centrum, claims to be regarded as the neurapophysis; the other by its position, usually over the intervertebral space, and by its shape as an inverted cone, indicates an intercalary interneural piece. It is worthy of remark that the nerve-foramen is usually not a “ trou de conjugaison” between these cartilages, but a direct perforation of either the neurapophysis, or of both this and the interneurapophysis, when both roots of the spinal nerve escape separately. The ribs (pleurapophyses) are short and simple semi-osseous styles attached to the ends of the parapophyses, in this skeleton of the Tojie, [Prep. 369.] along the twenty-six anterior vertebraj, decreasing in length posteriorly. In the Piked Dog-fish the ribs are quite cartilaginous, and I have counted forty pairs: in a few Sharks, as in Carcharias, JTejitanchus, and Alopias, the ribs are connected to the centrum at the base of the parapophyses. In the Monk-fish (Scjuatina), a transitional form between Rays and Sharks, the vertebral bodies are very numerous, and manifest ex-