276 LECTURE XT. ganglion. This organ, however, is further composed of a number of peculiarly arranged, elongated corpuscles, which depend in two rows from each vascular branch, and are bound together by a loose cellular tissue : the corpuscles are beset with fine villiform processes. The blood returns from the vaso-ganglions by small veins which rarely accompany, more commonly cross, the arteries. 4th. The two chief ‘ retia mirabilia,’ or vaso-ganglions, in the air-bladder of the Eel and Conger, which are situated at the sides of the opening of the air- duct, are also ‘ bipolar,’ and consist of both arterioles and venules; their efferent trunks do not ramify in the immediate margin of the vaso-ganglion from which they issue, as in the vaso-ganglions of the Cod, Biu’bot, Acerine, and Perch, but run for some distance before they again ramify to form the common capillary system of the lining membrane of the air-bladder. Rathke * failed to detect the open- ing of the air-duct with the oesophagus in the Eel; but De la Roche had well described the oblique aperture f, and accurately cites the whole family of the Eels as fishes having both the so- called ‘ air-gland ’ and the pneumatic duct. It had been supposed that the vascular ‘ air-gland ’ was present only in those fishes which could not derive the gazeous contents of their swim-bladder from without; and unquestionably in those fishes which have the shortest and widest ducts (Sturgeon, Amia, Erythrinus, Lepidosteus, Lepi- dosiren, Polypterus), the supposed air-secreting vaso-ganglions are not developed. Since Professor Magnus has determined the ex- istence of free carbonic acid gas, of oxygen and of azote in the blood, and dissolved in different proportions in the venous and the arterial blood, it may be readily conceived, as Professor Muller well remarks :j;, that the venules of the vaso-ganglions may withdraw carbonic acid gas from the arterioles, and that these may reach the inner surface of the air-bladder richer in oxygen and poorer in car- bonic acid than when they penetrated the vaso-ganglions. The air-duct may allow the gas to escape under certain circum- stances ; and the small size and obliquity of its orifice in many osseous fishes (Carp, Eel) seem only to adapt it to act as a safety- valve against liigh pressure when the fish sinks to great depths, or sudden expansion of the gas when they rise to the surface § : but * cix. ‘ Ueber die Schwimm-blase einiger FIsche,’ p. 98. f cxv. p. 201. I XXI. 1841, p. 98. See also Dr. J. Davy, in Phil.,Trans. 1838. § Neither the air-duct nor the elasticity of the air-bladder are equal to prevent the consequences of a too rapid removal from the enormous pressure which fishes sustain at great depths in the sea : those that are drawn up quickly by the hook are often found to have the air-bladder ruptured, and sometimes the stomach is protruded from the mouth by the pressure of tlie suddenly extricated and expanded gas.