190 LECTURE VIII. The Lophius lurks at the bottom, hidden in the sand, waiting, like the Skate, for its prey to come within the reach of its jaws: the diflPerence in the shape, size, and structure of their prosencephala is hardly less than that between the Shark and Pike. The combative Stickleback has longer and narrower prosencephala than the cowardly Gudgeon. The nidificative and philo-progenitive Callichthys * has neither the antero-lateral nor the posterior regions of the cerebrum more developed than in bony fishes generally. MEMBRANES OF THE NEURAL AXIS. Both brain and myelon are immediately invested by a thin but firm fibro-cellular and highly vascular membrane, the outer surface of which is usually covered by a stratum of pigment-cells, belonging properly to the central layer of the arachnoid, which has here co- alesced with the proper vascular pia mater. This vascular membrane seems, therefore, to be coloured with dark points, and sometimes to be minutely speckled upon a silvery ground; and the pigmental stratum often accompanies the processes of the pia mater in the ven- tricles of the brain. There is commonly a remarkable development of the vascular and pigmental membrane over the fourth, or epen- cephalic ventricle. I found such a mass concealing the rudimental cerebellum in the Lepidosiren ; it is largely developed in the Sturgeon and Paddle-fish, where it is posterior to the cerebellum. The commonly considerable space between the brain and cranial walls is occupied by a peculiar loose cellular structure, filled by gelatinous or albuminous fiuid, and by oily matter: in the Perch and Bream it seems to consist of an aggregate of minute spherical cells fiUed with fine colourless oil, the mass being traversed by blood-vessels. Cuvier | found the cells, which he compares to a kind of arachnoid, filled by a pretty compact adipose matter in the Tunny and Sturgeon. This modified arachnoid exists, but in less quantity, in the spinal canal, and even accompanies the cerebral nerves in their exit from the skull in some fishes with large nerve-foramina. The quantity of the cellular arachnoid above the cerebral lobes of Lepidosiren is a striking example of the piscine nature of that genus. The primitive fibrous capsule of the neural axis, the unossified or unchondrified remains of which, or of its inner layer, form the so- called ‘ dura mater,’ is most distinct in the low-organised Dermopteri; * Callichthijs litloralis, or Hassar-fish of Demerara. See the specimen of its brain, No. 1309, h, and that of its nest and eggs, No. 3787, h. Phys. Series, and an account of its habits in the Zoological Journal, vol. iv. p. 244. f XXIII. i. p. 309.