THE VERTEBRAE IN FISHES. 43 These, being usually developed from distinct and independent centres, I have termed “autogenous” elements (xix. p. 518.). Other parts, more properly called processes, which shoot out as continu- ations from some of the preceding elements, are termed “ exogenous: ” e. g. (#) the diapophyses, or upper “ transverse processes,” * and (2;) the zygapophyses, or the “ oblique ” or “ articular processes ” f of human anatomy. The autogenous processes generally circumscribe holes about the centrum, which, in the chain of vertebras, form canals. The most constant and extensive canal is that (yfig. 8. 71) | formed above the centrum, for the lodgment of the trunk of the ner- vous system (neural axis) by the parts thence termed “ neurapo- physes.” The second canal i^fig- 8. /i)JJ, below the centrum, is in its entire extent more irregular and interrupted; it lodges the central organ and large trunks of the vascular system (hasmal axis), and is usually formed by the laminae, thence termed “ haemapophyses.” At the sides of the centrum, most commonly in the cervical region, a canal {^fig. 9. v) is circumscribed by the pleurapophysis or costal process (ib. pTy, and by the diapophysis or upper transverse process (ib. £), which canal includes a vessel, and often also a nerve. Thus a typical or perfect vertebra, with all its elements, presents four canals or perforations about a common centre ; such a vertebra we find in the thorax of man, and most of the higher classes of Ver- tebrata {^fig. 6.), also in the neck of many birds. In the example from the latter class {Jig. 9.), the hasmapophyses {h, s) are anchy- transversi vertehr<e; Qucrforsatz, Carus; UnUre Querforsatz, Germ. ; Apopliyst trans- verse, Cuv.; Faraal, Geof. ; Para-vcrtehral elements. Grant. § Gr. pleura, a rib; and apophysis. Syn. Processus transversus vertehrm cervicalis, Costa seu, pars vertehralis, seu ossea, costa;. Ruckentheil and Oher-sternal-theil des Urwirhelhogens, Carus; C6tes vertebrales, Cuv. ; Paraal, Geof. ; Cata-vertebral ele- ments, Grant. II By Syncope for htematoapophyses, from Gr. haima, blood; and apophysis. Syn. Cartilago costce, seu pars sternalis costa: : in the abdomen, inscriptiones tendinex musculi recti • Unter-sternal-theil des Urwirhelhogens, Carus; Bogenstiicke des Bauch- wirhel, Carus; Untere Wirhelhogen, Ger. ; Cdtes sternales, Cuv. ; Os ployi ew chevron, Cuv. ; Cataal, Geof. ; Cata-vertehral elements. Grant. If Syn. Processus spinosus vertebra:. Its base is the Ohercr Tertiar-toirhel, Carus; its apex is the Oherer Dorn-forsatz, Carus; Apophyse epineuse, Cuv. ; E2)ial, Geof ; Epi-vertehral elements. Grant ** Syn. Ossa sterni ct processus ensiformis; \n the nhAomcn, “ linca alha." Sternal- wirhel K'urper, Carus ; Unterer Dorn-forsatz, Carus. * Diapophysis, from Gr. dia, trans, across; and apophysis. Syn. Radix posticus processus transversi vertehrm, and processus transversus. Queforsatz, Carus ; Oherc 'Qucrforsatz, Germ. ; Apophyse transverse, Cuv. t Zygapophysis, from Gr. zugos, junction ; and apophysis. Syn. Processus ohliquus Vertehrm ; Scitlicher Tertiar-wirhcl, Carus; Gelenh-forsatz, Germ. ; Apophyse articu- laire, Cuvier. 1 Ruclicnmarhs-kanal, Carus. Aortcnkanal, Carus.