rr THE SKULL OP PISHES. cartilage. The anterior or vomerine part forms a long pyramidal rostrum, to which are articulated cartilages connecting its extremities with the radial or anterior angles of the enormously developed hand (pectoral fin): in the space between the skull and those fins, the Torpedo carries its electric batteries. The tympanic pedicles are short and thick; the maxillary and mandibular arches long and wide, stretching transversely across the under part of the head. In the ordinary Sharks the anterior prolongation of the cranial cavity gives a quite anterior position, and almost vertical plane, to the fontaneUe: three columnar rostral cartilages are produced, two from above, and one from between the nasal cavities, which processes converge and coalesce to form the framework of a kind of cut-water, at the fore-part of the skull. In the place of articular condyles, pro- cesses extend backwards from each side of the occipital foramen and clasp, as it were, the bodies of three or four anterior vertebrae of the trunk. The pterygoidean arches extend outwards, in Carcharias, from the base of the cranium, but, as in embryo osseous fishes, are confluent therewith at both ends. The maxillary arch, suspended near its closed anterior extremity to the vomerine part of the base of the skull, is thence extended backwards to the articulation of the lower jaw. A simple cartilaginous pedicle forms the upper part (pleurapophysis) of the mandibular arch, which is completed below by the lower jaw. A few cartilaginous rays diverge outwards and backwards from the pedicle, and support a small opercular flap or fin. The hyoid arch consists of a basi-hyoid and two simple cerato- hyoid cartilages ; the stylo-hyoid is ligamentous, as in the Squatina. Short cartilaginous rays diverge from the cerato-hyoid to support the branchiostegal membrane, or hyoid fin. The scapular arch, which we shall find normally articulated with the occiput in osseous fishes, is attached thereto, at a little distance behind the head, by ligament and muscles in the sharks : from this arch, also, cartilaginous rays immediately diverge for the support of a radiated appendage or fin ; the third in the series counting backwards from the tympanic or opercular fin. The capsules of the special organs of sense are all cartilaginous: that of the ear is involved in the lateral walls of the cranium ; that of the eye is articulated by a cartilaginous pedicle with the orbit; and the olfactory sacs are over-arched by the nasal processes of the epicranial cartilage. Amongst the stranger forms in which special development radiates, in diverging from that stage of the common vertebrate route attained by the Plagiostomes, may be noticed the lateral transverse elongations of the orbital processes, supporting the eyo-baUs at their extremity.