150 LECTURE VI. Hence the large cranial bones always show the radiating osseous spi- culai in their clear circumference, which is the active seat of growth; hence the number of overlapping squamous sutures, which least opjiose the progressive extension of the bones. The cranial cavity expands with the expansion of the head : the absorbents remove from within as the arteries are extending the osseous walls without; but the brain undergoes no coi'respouding increase ; it lies at the bottom of its capacious chamber, which is principally occupied by a loose cellular tissue, situated, like the arachnoid, between the pia mater and the dura mater, and having its cells filled with an oily fluid, or sometimes, as in the Sturgeon, by a compact fat. (xxin. t. i. p. 309.) Now, this condition of the envelopes of the brain is not only, like the fibrous tissue and squamous sutures of the ever-growing cranial bones, related to the requisite proportions of the fore-part of the fish for facilitating its progressive motion, but it is one which no embryo of a higher animal ever presents: it is as peculiarly ichthyic, as it is expressly adapted to the exigencies of the fish. It has been held that confluence of distinct bones is a consequence of high circulating and respiratory energies; yet the anchyloses of the supra-occipital, parietal, and frontal above the cranium, and of the basi-occipital, basi-sphenoid, and pre-sphenoid below the cranium in Lepidosiren, and the constant confluence of the posterior and anterior basi-sphenoids in all bony fishes, disprove the constancy of the supposed relationship, and lead us to look for other explanations of such coalescence of primitively or essentially distinct bones. lYe shall find a final cause for the rapid consolidation and union of the elongated bodies of the two middle cranial vertebr® of Fishes in the necessity for strength in the basis of that part of the skull, from the sides of which the large and heavy mandibular and hyoid arches and their appendages are to be suspended, and to swing freely to and fro. The posterior and anterior sphenoids continue distinct bones in all Mammalia during a period of life at which they form one continuous bone in Fishes. The flattened form of the frontal and parietal bones in Osseous Fishes has been associated with the small development of tlie brain which they protect; but observe how they would have impeded the progress of the fish, had they been expanded into the dome-shaped vault which arches over the skull of Birds and Mammals. There was no need of that development in Fishes; but we must not overlook the fact that its very absence is a perfection in their structure, — an adaptation to their sphere and mode of locomotion. The loose connections of most of the bones of the fiice may likewise