THE VEUTEBRiE IN FISHES. 45 cranial nerves; and they undergo, in their neural arches, as extreme modifications as we perceive in the htemal portions of those vertebrse that protect the great centres of the vascular system. We may learn how much the development of the neurapophyses and vertebral bodies depends, in the trunk, upon the conjunction of nerves with the spinal chord, by the fact that, in the regenerated tails of lizards, the vertebral axis remains continuous and unjointed, because there is no co-extensive spinal chord giving oflP pairs of nerves. An extremely delicate fibrous band, with successively accumulated gelatinous cells, compacted in the form of a cylindrical column, and inclosed by a membranous sheath, is the primitive basis, called ‘ chorda dorsalis,’ in and around which are developed the cartila- ginous or osseous elements, by which the vertebral column is estab- lished in every class of Myelencephala (in. p. 340.). The earlier stages of vertebral development are permanently re- presented, with individual peculiarities superinduced, in the loAver forms of the class of fishes. In the anencephalous Lancelot {Brun- chiostoma) the lowest of all, the entire vertebral column consists of the gelatino-cellular chord and its membranous sheath. In the Lamprey cartilaginous arches and spines are added above the chorda dorsalis, in the membranous wall of the neural canal, and in the tail, also beneath it. In the Stui’geon and Chimiera, the bases of the cartilaginous arches inclose the ‘ chorda.’ In the Lepidosiren the neural and hiemal arches and their spines are ossified, but the centrums are still confiuent as a dorsal membrano-gelatinous chord. In many Sharks and Rays the ‘ chorda ’ is encroached upon by osseous or cartilaginous convergent laminas, and by concentric, successively shorter, centripetally developed cylinders, and is thus reduced to a string of gelatinous beads, each bead occupying the interspace between the opposed concave surfaces of the ver- tebral bodies. This moniliform state of the chorda dorsalis is persistent in most osseous fishes, the biconcave bodies of the ver- tebras being perforated in the centre ; whilst, in some other osseous fishes, the gelatinous biconical segments of the ‘ chorda ’ are insulated by the completed centripetal progress of ossification; and in one ex- ception {Lepidosteus), they are converted into osseous balls, fixed to the fore part of each vertebral body, which plays in the concavity or cup of the next vertebra in advance. The neural and haemal arches and spines are bony in all osseous fishes; and in all fi.shes chondrification and ossification of the ver- tebral column commences in these arches. In reptiles, birds, and mammals, the vertebrae arc bony throughout. Development diverges from the membrano-gelatinous stage, so as