TELEOLOGY OF THE SKELETON OF FISHES. 157 fins upon the sides, two single fins upon the hack, and one upon the belly, or rather between the belly and the tail. The balancing use of these organs is proved in this manner. Of the large-headed fish, if you cut off the pectoral fins, that is the pair which lies close behind the gills, the head falls prone to the bottom; if the right pectoral fin only be cut off, the fish leans to that side; if the ventral fin on the same side be cut away then it loses its equilibrium entirely; if the dorsal and anal fins be cut off, the fish reels to the right and left: when the fish dies, that is, when the fins cease to play, the belly turns upwards. The use of the same parts for motion is seen in the follow- ing observation upon them when put into action. The pectoral, and more particularly the ventral fins, serve to raise and depress the fish; when the fish desires to have a retrograde motion, a stroke forward with the pectoral fin effectually produces it; if the fish desire to turn either way, a single blow with the tail the opposite way sends it round at once ; if the tail strike both ways, the motion produced by the double lash is progressive, and enables the fish to dart forwards with an astonishing velocity. The result is not only in some cases the most rapid, but in all cases the most gentle, pliant, easy, animal motion with which we are acquainted. However, when the tail is cut off, the fish loses all motion, and it gives itself up to where the water impels it. The rest of the fins, therefore, so far as respects motion, seem to be merely subsidiary to this. In their mechanical use the anal fin may be reckoned the keel; the ventral fins outriggers; the pectoral fins the oars; and if there be any similitude between these parts of a boat and a fish, observe that it is not the resemblance of imitation, but the likeness which arises from applying similar mechanical means to the same purpose.” (xli. p. 257.) * See also Carlisle Phil. Trans. 1806, p. 3.