AlU-m,ADDER OF FISHES. 273 “ Maigre” and other species of Scicena, with most of the Corvincs, have very numerous lateral pneumatic ca^ca, which are more or less ramified.* In some species of Clieilonemus and Gadus blind pro- cesses are continued from both the sides and ends of the air-bladder (see the anterior ones in Gadus callarias, fig. 69. A, p). In Gadus Navavaga the lateral productions expand, and line corresponding expansions or excavations of the abdominal parapophyses, thus fore- shadowing the pneumatic bones of birds. The proper walls of the air-bladder of ordinary osseous fishes consist of a shining silvery fibrous tunic, the fibres being arranged for the most part transversely or circularly, and in two layers {^fig. 58, q r) : they are contractile and elastic ; but the walls of the anterior compartment of the air-bladder of Cyprinoids (ib. p) are much more elastic than those of the posterior one. The air-bladder is lined by a delicate mucous membrane, with a ‘ plaster-epithelium it is more or less covered by the peritoneum. Its cavity is commonly simple ; in the Sheat-fish it is divided by a vertical longitudinal septum along three-fourths of its posterior part, f The lateral com- partments are subdivided by transverse septa in many other Siluroids (e. g. genus Bagrus) : the large air-bladder of some species of Ery- thrinus (e. g. E. salvus, E. tce?iiatus) is partially subdivided into smaller cells. The cellular subdivision is such in the air-bladder of the Amia, that Cuvier compared it to the lung of a reptile J ; and the transition from the air- or swim-bladder to the lung is com- pleted in the Protopterus or Lepidosiren annectens, in which the cellular subdivision and multiplication of the vascular surface are com- bined with a complete bilateral partition of the bladder into two elongated sacs, with a supply of venous blood from a true pulmonary artery, and with the communication of the ductus pneumaticus, as in the Polypterus, with the ventral surface of the oesophagus. At the first introduction into the Animal Kingdom of a true lung, or air-breathing organ communicating with the pharynx or oeso- phagus, much variety of form and structure, much inconstancy even as to existence, might be expected, especially in that class in which the normal function of the new organ could be so seldom in any degree exercised, and in which, therefore, different accessory or subordinate offices predominate in such rudimental representative of the pulmonary organ. There is no swim-bladder, for example, in the orders Dermopteri, Ilolocephali, and Plagiostomi ; it is present in one of the families {Gadidce) of the thoracic suborder of Anacantlvini, * See XXXIX. i. p. 94., after Cuvier et Valenciennes, xxiii. pi, 138, 139, ■f cxiv. ii. p. 33. pi. 6. fig. 4. f xxiv. ii. p.377. VOE. II. T