THE SKULL OF FISHES. 81 oblongata, cerebellum, optic lobes, pineal sac, and cerebral hemi- spheres, but also the olfactory lobes. The lateral cartilaginous walls of the cranium are continued forwards from the acoustic capsule between the basal and superior osseous plates: the part perforated by the fifth pair of nerves, and protecting the side of the optic lobes, represents the great ala of the sphenoid : the next portion in advance, protecting the sides of the cerebral hemispheres and perforated by the optic nerve, answers to the orbital ala of the anterior sphenoid: and the cartilage terminates by a part which is perforated by the olfactory nerve, and which abuts laterally against the ascending or palatine process of the maxillary arch. The outward extension of the lateral cartilages of the cranium downwards, in the form of a broad triangidar plate, the apex of which forms the articulation for the lower jaw, is like that which we see in the ChimEera ; but ossification has extended along two tracts, which converge as they descend, one 26. 2s) from behind to the outer, the other {ih. 23) from before to the inner side of the carti- laginous maxillary joint, which these bony plates strengthen and support like the backs of a book. The posterior of these bony arches is obviously the homologue of the tymjjanic pedicle in the Squatina: the anterior bony arch as plainly answers to the pterygoid buttress in osseous fishes; but it is here confluent with the coalesced palatine and superior maxillary bones, the dentigerous part of which extends outwards, downwards, and backwards {Jig- 29. 2i), but does not 29. reach, as in the Sharks and Rays, the mandibular joint. From the upper part of the palato-maxillary portion a compressed sharp process (ib. 20) ascends obliquely backwards, and terminates in a point: the Cranial spines .and . . , „ , . • , , i . upperjaw of Lrpi- inner Side 01 this process is closely attached by liga- ment to the fore and outer part of the frontal por- tion of the epicranial bone (ib. 11); the outer side of the process is ex- cavated for the reception of the outer and anterior process of the remarkable bone, which in my Memoir (xxxili. p. 334.) I have compared with the post-frontal bone. This bone (Jig. 27. 12), in con- nection with the ascending process of the maxillary (ib. 20), forms the upper part of the orbit, and behind this connection it sends out the post-orbital process, beyond which it extends backwards, freely over- hanging the fronto-occipital, and gradually decreasing to a point, which terminates just above the occipital spine, in the position of the mas- toid, in bony fishes, and giving attachment to the anterior end of the great dorso-lateral muscles of the trunk. This bone is flat above like a scale, and from its superficial position might be classed, like the similar G VOL. II.