GENERATIVE SYSTEM OF FISHES. 287 which is continued from the posterior end of the gland, with its serous covering, into a short and simple ‘ vas deferens,’ which opens usually into or receives the urethral prolongation of the urinary Gurnard the testes {Jig. 72. a) are distinct from each other, hut their ‘ vasa deferentia’ almost im- mediately unite into a common duct, which joins the urethra (c) behind the rectum (A), and ter- minates at the outlet {g\ In the Salmon and the Herring, the ‘ vasa deferentia ’ do not unite together until near their termination in the urethra. In the Cod and the Bull-head {Cottus) the eommon portion of the efferent duct is much dilated: it forms a saccular seminal reservoir in the Sole. The canal common to the ureter and vas deferens is of great length in the Stur- geon : a valve prevents the regurgitation of the urine into the spermatic duct. The urethra is usually produced into a papilla, which pro- jects conspicuously from the hack part of the cloaca in the vi- viparous Poecilia, Anableps, and Blenny: it is large also in the Lump-fish. The testes are almost entirely extra-abdominal in the Flounder and some other Pleuronectidce, extending backwards into a kind of concealed scrotum between the integuments and muscles on each side above the anal fin. The testes differ much in form in dif- ferent Osseous Fishes, but are remarkable in all for their enormous seasonal increase: when fully developed they are commonly known as the ‘milt’ or ‘soft roe.’ In the Pipe-fishes {Syngnathi) they present the form of two simple elongated straight tubes (prep. 2375.). In the Lump-fishes {Cyclopteri) they are divided by incisions into lobes: in the Cod a vast extent of the vascular surface of the glan- dular substance is packed into a small compass, by being disposed in convolutions upon the edge of the ‘ mesorchium.’ The primitive spermatic cells, which are persistent in the Cyclostomes, have coa- lesced into tubes (tubuli seminiferi) in osseous fishes; the tubes open at one end in the wide and sometimes saccular commencement of the vas deferens, and terminate at the other either by blind free extremities, or by retieulate anastomoses.* In the Plagiostomes the testes (Jig. 73. a) are always distinct from one another, and usually of a circumscribed compact form, si- tuated far forwards in the abdominal cavity. They have a proper * cxx. p, 105. pi. XV. iig. 7. in the Shad. bladder. In the Renal and Male Organs : Trigla li/ra, Cams. I