230 I.ECTURE IX. and ciliated tentacula, which mainly tend, by the per- petual vortex they cause in the surrounding water, to bring the ani- malcular nutriment within the grasp of the pharynx {ph). There is no tongue in this rudimentary fish; that organ is often absent or very small in the typical members of the Class; its basis, the glosso- hyal, when it projects at all into the mouth, as in fig. 61. c, is rarely covered by integuments so organised as to suggest their being en- dowed with the sense of taste; they are generally callous, and either smooth and devoid of papillaj, or, if the representatives of these be present, they are calcified and the tongue is beset with teeth. The integuments of the palate, however, not unfrequently present that degree of vascularity and supply of nerves which indicate some selective sense, analogous to taste. In the Cyprinoids the palate is cushioned with a thick soft vascular substance, exuding mucus by numerous minute pores, but more remarkable for its irritable erectile or contractile property * : if you prick any part of this in a live Carp, the part rises immediately into a cone, which slowly subsides ; this peculiar tissue is richly supplied by branches of the glosso-pharyngeal nerves : it may assist in the requisite movements of the vegetable food, as well as add to it an animalising and solvent mucus, whilst it is undergoing mastication by the pharyngeal teeth. In the G-ym- notus there are four series of branched fieshy processes in the mouth, one upon the dorsum of the tongue, a second depending from the palate, and one along each side of the mouth. The reddish vas- cular body, discovered by Retziusf between the basi-branchials and the sterno-hyoid muscles in Cartilaginous Fishes, and which exists also in Gadus, Salmo, and some other Osseous Fishes, has been compared to a sublingual salivary gland : but it is a ‘ vaso-ganglion ; ’ and its homology with the thyroid, indicated by Mr. Simon |, is a truer view of its nature. The only other representatives of a salivary system in Fishes are the mucous follicles that communicate with the mouth. There are neither tonsils nor velum palati in Fishes: the folds of membrane behind the upper and lower jaws, of which ‘internal lips ’ the Sword-fish and Dory afford good examples, seem intended to prevent the reflux of the respiratory streams of water rather than the escape of food from the mouth. In the Lepidosiren these folds or inner lips are papillose and glandular. In the aberrant Dermopteri and Plagiostomi, at the two ex- tremes of the Class, in which there are numerous branchial apertures on each side, and the respiratory streams do not necessarily enter by the mouth, the last pair of branchial arches are not metamorphosed into pharyngeal jaws, and the entry to the gullet is simply constricted XCIX. f CXIX, ^ cxvi. p. 300.