THE SKULL OF FISHES. 83 Behind the tympanic pedicle is the pre-opercular bone {fig. 27. 34), elongated, pointed at both ends, triedral, with the outer sur- face concave : its lower two-thirds is attached by ligament to the mandibular or tympanic pedicle. Behind and below this is an in- equilateral triangular bone {ib. 37) closely attached by ligament to the expanded cranial end of the hyoidean arch : this I originally described as the styloid bone; it may be the homologue of the inter- opercular.* Only a single ‘ cerato-hyoid’ {ih. 4o) is ossified on each side : they complete the arch by the ligamentous junction of their lower extre- mities, having no intervening basi-hyal : their upper expanded ends are suspended by a short ligamentous mass to the cartilage imme- diately behind the tympanic pedicle. The capsules of the organs of sense are of nearly equal size ; the eye is the smallest; the nose the largest. The acoustic capsules are principally buried in the lateral cartilages of the skull; but one of the otolithes protrudes through a moderately wide hole into the cranial cavity. The eye-ball occupies the space between the pre- and post- frontals above, and the outward prolongation of the maxillary below; its capsule, the sclerotic, is cartilaginous. The nasal capsules {ih. 19) are also cartilaginous, with vertical slits closed by membrane ; they are situated on each side and below the nasal plate. You may perhaps think that I have been biased by the extrinsic interest of personal discovery, in dwelling so long upon the cranial structure of the Lepidosiren; but I persuade myself that the actual value and intrinsic importance of this remarkable type of Ichthyic organisation, will justify the time and attention we have been be- stowing upon it. The skeleton of the Lepidosiren affords the right key to the complexities of those of the typical and better ossified fishes. I believe it to manifest, upon the whole, the highest grade which is attained in the class of Fishes, in the direct pi’ogress to perfection, or, in what may be termed the Vertebrate high road. The true or typical osseous fishes deviate from this road into bye- paths of their own, and superadd endless complexities of which we shall seek in vain for homologous parts in Reptiles, Birds, or Mammals. Therefore it is, that, on the whole, the Lepidosiren’s skeleton presents the closest resemblance to that of the lowest class of Reptiles, though it differs therefi’om both by a little less and a little more development: the vertebral centres of the trunk, for ex- ample, have not risen above the embryonic state of soft conllucnce ; but secondary spines have been superadded to the neural and hannal Agassiz regards the pre-opereiilar in lislics as the lioinologiic of the styloid. a 2