196 LECTURE VIII. the glosso-pharyngeal; and says, “ this nerve, on being touched near its origin in a recently dead animal, immediately produces a contraction of the muscular appendages of the gills.” (ib. p. 41.) In the Cod the acoustic nerve (fig. 53. 7), which here, as in all fishes above the Dermopteri, is of large size, rises close behind, but distinct from the fifth pair, between it and the vagus : the acoustic nerve receives a filament from the vagus, extends in a crescentic form upon the labyrinth, expands upon the large sac of the otolite, and sends filaments to the ampulliform ends of the semicircular canals. In other Osseous Fishes (Pike, Blenny), the acoustic blends at its origin with the back part of that of the fifth: it sometimes communicates with the opercular branch of the fifth as well as with the glosso-pharyngeal of the vagus. The nervus vagus has a development proportional to the extent and complexity of the branchial apparatus in Fishes, and is usually larger than the trigeminal; it rises (fig. 53. 55. s) from the restiform tract forming the side of the medulla oblongata, and commonly from a specially developed lobe; and is distributed to the branchial ap- paratus, the pharynx and pharyngeal arches, the cesoiihagus and stomach ; it sends also filaments to the heart, and to the air bladder when this exists {Jig. 58. i). In the Lamprey a portion of the vagus combines with branches of the facial and hypoglossal nerves to form a ramus lateralis vagi, which extends to the middle third part of the body, where it terminates. In the Cod we saw that the ‘lateral nerve’ was formed chiefly by the trigeminal; but in many Osseous Fishes ( Cyprinus, Belone, and Coitus) the proportions are reversed, and the lateral nerve is formed by a branch of the vagus, which receives filaments from the trigeminal nerve : in a few genera ( Salmo, Clupea, Acipenser) it is formed exclusively by the vagus. In all these fishes it is continued very far back along the lateral or dorso-lateral region of the body ; sometimes lodged deeply in the lateral mass of muscles, ex. gr. Belone, Clupea, and Scomber (Prep. 1384 of the Mackerel): but more eommonly the nerve or a main branch lies just under the skin, and in the eourse of the lateral mucous line, as in the Salmon, and Sturgeon : in the Flat fish and Bull-heads ( Coitus) it has both a deep-seated and a superficial branch. In the Carp and Herring the vagal ‘ramus lateralis’ sends oflPa strong branch to the dorsal fin: in the Gar-pike it sends, as in the Cod, large branches to the pectoral and ventral fins : it distributes its smaller branches to the skin and mucous ducts; and those in the Cod and Lump-fish anastomose with branches of the spinal nerves. In the Perch there are two ‘ nervi laterales ’ on each side; the dorsal one, which escapes thi-ough the