206 LECTURE VIII. the skin. A conj unctive membrane is reflected from the circular eye- lid over the third eyelid, which is placed at the nasal side of the orbit, and then passes over the anterior half of the eyeball. A strong ‘ nictitator ’ muscle rises from the temporal side of the orbit, and passing through a muscular and ligamentous loop, descends obliquely to be inserted into the lower margin of the third lid. The trochlear muscle has an insertion into the upper part of the circular lid, and depresses that part simultaneously with the raising of the third lid. » The proper muscles of the eyeball exist in all fishes except the Myxinoids and Lepidosiren, and consist of the four recti and two ohliqui : the latter rise from the nasal side of the orbit, and are inserted most favourably for effecting the rotatory movements of the eyeball: but the superior oblique has not its direction changed by a trochlea in the present class. In the Galeus there is a special protuberance of the upper part of the cartilaginous sclerotic for the common insertion of the rectus superior and obliquus superior ; and a second protuberance below for the common insertion of the obliquus inferior and rectus inferior. The recti muscles rise in many Osseous Fishes from the sub-cranial canal f ; the origin of the rectus externus hQ\n^ prolonged furthest back. But the recti muscles are most remarkable for their length in the Hammer-headed Sharks, since they rise from the basis cranii, and extend along the lateral processes or peduncles, at the free extremities of which the eyeballs are situated. In all Plagiostomes the eyeball is supported on a car- tilaginous peduncle : this is short and broad in the Bays; longer and cylindrical in the Sharks ; in the Selache it is articulated by a ball and socket synovial joint to a tubercle abov^e and external to the entry of the optic nerve. A fibrous ligament attaches the sclerotic to the wall of the orbit in the Sturgeon and the Salmon. The space between the eyeball and the orbit contains a soft bed of gelatinous and adipose substance : but there is no lachrymal gland in fishes. An apparatus to moisten the cornea was, of course, unnecessary in animals perpetually moving in a liquid medium. The cornea, which in most fishes is always exposed to that medium, is flat; it is, therefore, less liable to injury in the rapid movements of the fish, and being * Prof. Miiller has established the family ‘ Nictitantes ’ for the Sharks, including the Galeus, Carcharias, and a few other genera, with the third eyelid. f If, therefore, we regard this canal as part of the orbits, we must add the ali- sphcnoid, basi-sphenoid, and even the basi-occipital to the bones enumerated at p. 103., as forming the chambers for the eyeballs and their appendages in Fishes; and this multiplicity of orbital bones interestingly repeats or parallels the charac- teristic formation of the otocranes or ear-chambers in the present class.