267 VASCULAR SYSTliM Oli' FISHES. Ganges {Monopterus, Syrnbraiichus) * ; it is persistent in the first and second branchial arches of the eel-like Lepidosiren {fig. 71, 2, 3). Such arches are, therefore, gill-less, and a certain proportion only of the blood transmitted from the heart is aerated in the gills: about one fourth, e. g. in Monopterus, goes direct to the aorta in its venous state ; a larger quantity would pass into the roots of the aorta (ib. o, o), and mix with the general circulation in the Lepidosiren, were no part of the curi’ent diverted by the vessels /, V, into the lung- like modification of its air-bladder. The Hunterian specimens. Nos. 3255. and 3260. show the external branchial filaments in the embryos of a Dog-fish and Shark ; three such filaments are retained on each side, for a long period, in the Lepidosiren annectens. Accessory respiratory organs, analogous to, if not homologous with, the opercular gills, are developed from the upper part of the pharynx in the Climbing Perch {Anabas scande?is) and allied fishes of amphibious habits; they are complex folds of highly vascular membrane supported on singular sinuous plates de- veloped from the epibranchials of the anterior branchial arches (fig. 39. 48); whence this family of fishes is called Lahyrinthihrancliii. An accessory branchial ramified vascular organ is similarly situated in the genus thence called Heterobranchus. From the rich vascularity of these organs they resemble miniature trees of red coral; they are hollow and muscular, serving not only for respiration, but, as Cuvier suggests, to aid in propelling the arterialised blood into the aorta. In the Cuchia (Amphipnous\ a finless, snake-like fish, which lurks in holes in the marshes of Bengal, the second branchial arch supports a few long fibrils, and the third a simple lamina fringed at its edge ; the first and fourth arches have not even the rudiment of a gill. The branchial func- tion is transferred to a receptacle on each side of the head, above the branchial arches, covered by the upper part of the opercular membrane; these receptacles have a cellular and highly vascular internal surface j tlie cavity communicates Avith the mouth by an opening between the hyoid and first branchial arch, and receives its blood from the terminal bifurcation of the branchial artery, and also from the efferent vessels of the rudimental gills. Those from the supplemental lung-like vascular sacs arc collected into two trunks, Avhich unite with the posterior unbranched branchial arteries to form the aorta. Tims about one half of the volume of blood transmitted from the heart is conveyed to the aorta without being exposed to the action of the air. Ihis amphibious fish is, as might be expected, of a sluggish and torpid nature, and remarkable for its tenacity of life. The homo- logiies of the superior branchial sacs extend in a Gangetic Siluroid * Taylor, cxvn.