212 LECTURE VIII. proportions of the labyrinth and eyeball to the conditions under which the fish receives its impressions of the sonorous and luminous undulations. Electric Organs. Extraordinary as are the modifications and appendages of the peri- pheral extremities of the nerves of smell, sight, and hearing, other nerves in fishes are subject to still stranger combinations, and con- stitute organs quite unknown in any other class of Vertebrate Ani- mals; those, viz., whieh endow a fish with the wonderful property of accumulating, concentrating, and applying in its own behoof an impon- derable agent of a purely physical nature, which gives it the power to communicate electric shocks,—to wield at will the artillery of the skies. But few fishes are known to possess this faculty, and I shall limit the demonstration of the electric organs to the two genera which possess them in the highest state of development, and which are most dreaded for the force of the shocks they impart; these are the Tor- pedo and the Gymnotus. In the Torpedo Galvani* the organs are two in number, are large, fiattened, reniform bodies, lodged on each side the head and gills, and encompassed by these and by the anterior borders of the pectoi’al fins {fig. 45. e), and they consist of a mass of vertical, for the most part hexagonal, prisms, the ends of which are covered by the dorsal and ventral integuments. When you reflect these, you find the organs immediately coated by a thin -glistening aponeurosis, which sends down partitions forming the chambers of the prismatic columns. Each column, when insulated in the recent fish, seems like a mass of clear trembling jelly; but consists of a series of de- licate membranous plates inclosed by, or adlierent by their margins to a proper capsule, and separated from each other by a small quan- tity of a limpid albuminous fiuid. Each flattened cell thus formed, is lined by an epithelium of nuclesPted eorpuscles.: the fibrous tissue of the plates and common capsule presents the microscopic characters of elastic tissue; between it and the e:pithelium is a clear unorganised layer, the seat of the ultimate ramifications of the vessels and nerves. The proper capsule adheres to the aponeurotic partition-walls which support the columns and the larger branches of the nerves and vessels of the organ.f The transverse plates of the vertical columns are * The electric organs in the Tor-p. Narce and Torp. Nobiliana do not materially differ from those above described and illustrated by the dissections of Hunter.— See Nos. 2167—2179., and lxxx. f Some of the vertical columns do not extend through the entire thickness of the oro-an. I have found them interrupted where the deep-seated nerves traverse the substance of the battery, but have not, in any instance, succeeded in finding a natural division of the organ into two strata of dorsal and ventral columns. — See xci. p. 60.