THE SKULL OF OSSEOUS FISHES. Ill Strength to the carapace ; the bulky apparatus suspended from the parietal and frontal vertebr® demanded the additional stiength to the supporting axis which is gained by the confluence of theii bodies, and apparently by the confluence of the pioximal pieces of the pleurapophyses by which the two luemal arches are suspended from those vertebne. The anterior division of the epi-tympanic piece articulates with the pre-opercular (34), the meso-tympanic (26), and pre-tympanic (27); the posterior division is again bifur- cate in the Cod, supporting part of the pre-opercular and part of the opercular bone. A strong crest projects from its outer surface in this and many other fishes. The epi-tympanic is simple at both ends in the Carp tribe. The meso-tympanic {fig. 30. 26), or ‘symplectic’ of Cuvier, is a slender, compressed, slightly curved, elongated, triangular bone, articulated by its upper part or base to the epi-tympanic and pre- opercular ; by its lower end to the inner side of the hypo-tympanic, reaching almost to the mandibular trochlea; and by its anterior border to the pre-tympanic. The upper part of its posterior border is free, and gives attachment to the membrane that fills up the vacuity between it, the pre-opercular and hypo-tympanic bones. The meso-tympanic is confluent with the epi-tympanic in the Siluroid, the Murajnoid, and some other fishes ; but does not join the epi- tympanic in the Lepidosteus, being in that fish supported by the pre-opercular. The pre-tympanic {fig. 30. 27), to which part of the suspensory pedicle of the jaw Cuvier restricts the name ‘caisse’ or ‘os tym- panicum*,’ is an oblong bony scale, with the posterior margin thick- ened and grooved for the reception of the fore part of the meso- tympanic and the upper and fore part of the hypo-tympanic. It is confluent with the hypo-tympanic in the Conger and Murasna : it does not join either this or the meso-tympanic in the Lepidosteus. The hypo-tympanic {fig. 30. 2s) is a triangular plate of bone, like the epi-tympanic reversed, bearing the articular convex trochlea for the lower jaw upon its inferior apex, and having its upper side or base more even than the opposite base of the epi-tympanic. The * This is perhaps one of the best examples of the extent to which Cuvier was influenced by tlie idea or principle of homology, when a determination had origin- ated from his own comparisons; few of the names imposed by Geoffroy St. Hilaire, in conformity with his peculiar views, seem more overstrained than the transference of the name and signification of the little process supporting the ear-drum in man to a small segment of a strong pedicle, wholly deprived of the proper tympanic function, and with which the homology of the human tympanic process of the tem])oral bone can only be established by taking the pedicle of the lower jaw in ' Fishes as a whole.