VEETEBRAL COLUMN OF FISHES. 67 (Plaice, Sole, he., fig. 20.), and in some parts of the vertebral column of the Deep-fish, as the Dory, the Chajtodon, the Sun-fish, &c. But whatever modifications these dei’mal and intercalary spines present above, the same are usually repeated below, in connection with the htemal arches and spines, for the support of the anal fin: and just as in the framework of the dorsal fin we find interneural spines and der- moneural spines, so in that of the anal fin we recognise interhiemal spines {fig. 19. iJi), and dermohasmal spines (ib. dJi), with the, some- times, expanded base from which they diverge. Both interneural and interhaemal spines are, in the osseous fishes, commonly shaped like little daggers, plunged in the flesh up to the hilt, which is represented by the part to which the true fin-ray (dermoneural or dermohiemal spine) is attached. These parts of the dermal skeleton, developed in the primitive continuous fold of skin which forms the groundwork of the vertical fins in the embryo fish, manifest the vegetative character, which is the usual concomitant of peripheral position, by the partial spontaneous fission which each ray has undergone in the progress of its development; this is shown by the longitudinal raphe or suture along which each dermal spine or ray may commonly be divided into two lateral moieties. The framework of the caudal fin is composed of the same intercalary and dermal spines, superadded to the proper neural and haemal spines, of those caudal vertebrae which have coalesced and been shortened by absorption, in the pro- gress of embryonic development, to form the base of the terminal fin (fig- 18, 19. C, dn, dh). In the Sharks and Sturgeons this fin is not symmetrical as in most osseous fishes, but is formed chiefly by the haemal spines and their intercalary and dermal spinous appendages ; the progressively de- creasing bodies of the caudal vertebrae are continued along the upper border or lobe of the fin, sending off short neural spinous pro- cesses to increase the height of that border. M. Agassiz calls those fishes in which, from the peculiar development of the lower lobe of the caudal fin, the vertebral seem to be prolonged into the upper lobe, “ heterocercal; ” and those with the lobes of the caudal fin equal or symmetrical, he calls “ homocercal.” The pre- ponderance of heterocercal fishes in the seas of the ancient geological epochs of our planet is very remarkable : the prolongation of the superior lobe characterises every fos.sil fish of the strata antei'ior to, and including, the Magnesian limestone. The homocercal fishes first appear above that formation, and gradually predominate, until, as in the present period, the heterocercal bony fishes are almost li- mited to a single ganoid genus, e. g. Lepidostcus. The shape, size, and number of the median azygous dorsal and F 2