60 LECTURE III. four, two anterior, two posterior, as in the Mullet {Mugil,fig. 16. z); sometimes two, as in the Perch, the posterior in this and most other fishes being ovei’lapped by the anterior articulating process of the .succeeding vertebra: commonly only the anterior zygapophysis is developed {fig. 17. z), which touches, but rarely overlaps, as in the Polypterus, the neural arch in advance. It is peculiar to fishes to have articular pi'ocesses developed from the parapophyses; we have noticed these already in the abdominal region in the Ray; in the osseous fishes, when present, they are confined to the caudal vertebra • tfi^y fiTe particularly developed, sometimes branched. forming a network about the hajmal canal in certain species of Tunny ( Thynnus, xxm. i. p. 265.). In Loricaria peculiar accessary pro- cesses are sent out from the neural arch of the seven anterior ver- tebras which abut against the osseous lateral shields of the dermal skeleton. The parapophyses are very short in some fishes {Salmo, Clupea) : they are longest and most expanded in the abdominal region of the Cod tribe {fig. 19. j)% where they suppoi-t the air-bladder, which in- timately adheres to their under surface, and, in one species of Gadus, sends processes into expanded cavities of the parapophyses, thus fore- showing the pneumatic bones of birds. They gradually bend down near the tail, where they form, as in all fishes, the hajinal canal. The pleurapophyses of fishes correspond to what are usually termed in Comparative Anatomy ‘ vertebral ribs,’ and in Human Anatomy ‘false’ or ‘ floating ribs’: for, with few exceptions, of which the Herring is one {fig. 23.), their distal ends are not connected witli any bones analogous to sternal ribs or sternum ; i. e. the abdomen is unclosed below by the crura and spines completing the hasmal arch. The true liomologues of sternal ribs or abdominal lia^mapophyses re- tain the primitive aponeurotic tissue, and may be well seen in the Bream, extending from the ends of the vertcbi-al ribs. These elements.