141 DEKMAL BONES OF PISHES. same appendage. In some of the earliest introduced fishes on our planet, e.g. the Cephalaspids of the Old Red Sandstone, the oper- cular appendages were functionally as well as homologically cephalic fins, and the only pair of radiated appendages so developed from the luemal arches. Returning to the consideration of the dermo-skeleton, we find in the Sturgeon that, besides the cephalic plates, it is represented by five longitudinal rows of dermal bones, one extending along the mid- line of the back {fig. 43. ds') already noticed in the elucidation of the skeleton of the trunk, one along each side of the body {ih. dp), and two along the lower part of the abdomen, between the pectoral and ventral fins. The upper lateral series of scale bones is pretty constant in the exo-skeleton of fishes, and is usually closely related to the mucous tube and its conduits, which form the so-called ‘ lateral line’ in this class. The systematic Ichthyologist finds in the va- rieties of this line characters for the distinction of genera or species. The lateral bones, which are either perforated or grooved by its ducts, are modified scales, and the scales of fishes are more or less modified dermal bones: they do not belong to the horny or epidermal system, but lie between the cuticle and cutis, their fore margin di- rected inwards and lodged somewhat loosely in depressions of the cutis, and their hind margin outwards, and firmly adherent to the cuticle, when the development of the scales renders its existence possible. The scales of the lateral line are commonly more ossified than those of the rest of the trunk : in the Eel tribe the lateral mucous ossicles are tubular and concealed by the epiderm. In the Sole and Plaice the mucous scale bones of the lateral line are quite superficial. There are many circular radiated ossicles scattered over the dark or upper side of the skin of the Turbot. A row of small chevron-shajied dermal bones extends along the median line of the belly of the Herring, and the extremity of each lateral process {fig. 23. dli) is connected with that of the long and slender vertebral rib, completing the inferior ai’ch, like a sternum and sternal ribs. The Dory has two rows of thick osseous plates along the under part of the abdomen; and both this fish and the Pierring liave been cited as exceptional examples of fishes with a true sternum. • But the super- ficial position of the ventral ossicles indicates their essentially dermal character, and we may regard this as another instance of the con- nection of the endo- and exo-skeletons in the class of fishes. Parts analogous to a sternum are thus supplied from the exo-skeleton in the Herring, as they are from the splanchno-skeleton in the Lamprey * Gore’s translation of Cams’ Comp. Anat. vol. i. p. 117.