192 LECTURE VIII. Anatomy to the olfactory nerves are to be understood of the crura rhin- encephali. In the Lancelet the little ciliated olfactory sac {fig. 46. o/.) ■ is brought into close contact with the rhinencephalic extremity of the neural axis. When the olfactory lobe or ganglion, in other fishes, is near the organ of smell, it sends off the nerves by numerous very short fasciculi: this characteristic multiplicity of virtual origins of : the proper nerve is less conspicuous where the rhinencephalon is near ) the rest of the brain ; but a careful analysis of the long olfactory j nerve in the Eel, the Ide, or the Roach, shows that it is a fasciculus | of filaments distinct from their origin. | The optic nerves, like the eyes, are of large relative size in most fishes: but where the organs of sight are small, the nerves are slender, as in the Silurus: they are still more slender in the Myxinoids, and they are scarcely discernible filaments in the Am. blyopsis. In the Plagiostomes, the Sturgeon, the Polypterus, and | the Lepidosiren, the optic nerves, traceable in part from the optic / lobes, closely adhere to the basis of the mesencephalon, from which ] they seem to rise, anterior to the infundibulum, and are there con- ! nected together by a short transverse commissure ; but they do ^ not cross each other. In ordinary Osseous Fishes the exterior white fibres of the optic lobes converge to their under and anterior j part, to form the chief part of the origin of the optic nerves; but a portion of the origin may be traced through the septum opticum to the cerebellum; and in the Eel, the Gar-pike, and the Lump-fish, a portion may be traced to the hypoaria: in the Cod some fibres of the optic nerve are derived from both the hypoaria and the waU of the third ventricle. The nerves are connected together at their origins by a commissure ; but afterwards they cross one another without interchange of fibres {fig. 53. 2) : sometimes the right nerve in its passage to the left eye passes under, sometimes over, the left nerve * : rarely does one nerve perforate the other, as, e. g. in the i Herring. The nerves are fiattened where they decussate. In most Osseous Fishes the structure of the optic nerve is peculiar ; it consists of a folded plate of membrane and neurine {fig. 57. a). The retina ^ is formed by the unfolding of the nerve ; and it would be a forced and - overstrained analogy to compare it with the ganglion of the olfactory nerve (rhinencephalon), because this happens in some fishes to be close to the nasal capsule. The optic nerve escapes, in Osseous Fishes, either through the anterior fibrous wall of the cranium beneath the orbito-sphenoid, or through a notch or a foramen in that bone. In the Flounder one optic nerve is usually shorter than the other. In * I have seen both varieties in different individuals of Gadus morrhua. See , also Lxxv. ii. p. 203. ^ ^