297 DEVKLOPMICNT OF FISHES. (“ Lectures on Invertebrata,” p. 77.), the coiTesponclence will be seen to be extremely close. In the Entozoon the entire yolk is the seat of the successive subdivision produced by reiterated processes of deve- lopment, liquefaction, and assimilation of nucleated cells, until the property of the primary impregnated germ-cell has been distributed throughout the mass ; when the whole mass, by subsequent meta- morphosis of the cells, is converted into the embryo. In the fish a part only of the yolk is the seat of these processes, superficially indi- cated by fissures of that part, and the resulting embryo is connected with the remainder of the yolk ; this remainder is called the nutrient yolk, or ‘ viteUicle; ’ the other part is the ‘ germinal yolk,’ sometimes called the ‘germinal membrane,’ from its being thinly spread over more or less of the nutrient yolk before the embryo arises out of it. In the Tench and other Cyprinoids it overspreads the whole nutrient yolk*: in the Blenny, Rathkef found the embryo considerably ad- vanced before the nuti’ient yolk was so included. The surface of the so-covered yoUv is ciliated, and, with the embryonal part, performs a slow but regular rotation within the albuminous fluid of the chorion. J The first traces of the embryo are two parallel ridges, the ‘ laminae dorsales,’ which coalesce, and form the neural axis and the rudiments of the chorda dorsalis 78. f). The germinal membrane separates into an outer ‘ vertebral’ and an inner ‘ visceral’ layer : from the former are developed the brain and myelon, the vertebras and their appendages, the muscles and nerves, and the skin ; from the latter are developed the digestive, excretoiy, and generative viscera. The outer layer has been called the ‘serous’ and ‘animal’ layer; the inner one the ‘ mucous’ and ‘ organic’ layer. Between these are deve- loped the organs of circulation and respiration. The ‘laminas dor- sales’ consist of the extension of the vertebral layer upwards (the embryo being supposed to be prone) to inclose the neural axis : the ‘laminae ventrales’ are downward extensions of the same layer, to inclose the viscera and the nutrient yolk ; consequently the so- extended ‘ laminae ventrales,’ when they coalesce below, form the external (serous, or more properly tegumentary) layer of the yolk- sac. After the trunk is developed, tlie head and the tail appear, and project freely from the supporting surface, and the embryo encircles the yolk, in the form of an apodal fish {ih, g\ With regard to the skeleton, the aponeurotic septa of tlie vertebral segments of the body first appear ; then the ‘ chorda dorsalis ;’ afterwards the rudiments of the neurapophy.ses along the sides of the neural axis ; and, lastly, tlie haemal arches and tlieir appendages. At this time may be discerned the characteristic striae of the muscular fibre. Tlie development of the skull is described at p. 71. * XLIII. (1831). t CXXVIII. j: CXXXII.