218 * LXXVI. p. 162. LECTURE vm. and no irritant to the body has any effect on the electric organs any more than it would have under the like circumstances on the muscles. But, if the ends of the nerves in connection with the organ be irri- tated, the discharge of electricity takes place, just as irritating the end of the divided motor nerve in connection with muscle would induce its contraction. If part of the electric nerves be left in con- nection with the brain, the stimulus of volition cannot, through these, excite the discharge of the whole organ, but only of that part of the organ to which the undivided nerves are distributed. So, likewise, the irritation of the end of a divided nerve in connection with the electric apparatus, excites the discharge of only that part to which such nerve is distributed. We have seen that the power of exciting the electric action, like that of exciting the muscular contraction, is exhausted by exercise and recovered by repose: it is also augmented by energetic circulation and respiration; and what is more signi- ficative of their close analogy, both powers are exalted by the direct action, on the nervous centres, of the drug ‘ strychnine: ’ its appli- cation causes simultaneously a tetanic state of the muscles of the fish, and a rapid succession of involuntary electric discharges. * The survey of the nervous system of fishes cannot be concluded without a notice of two systems of mucous organs in intimate con- nection with the nerves of sensation; one system is common to the Torpedo with other Plagiostomes ; the other system is peculiar to the Torpedo, in which it was discovered by Pi-of. Savi. The first or muciferous system consists of the long slender mucous tubes {fig. 45. m), which, commencing by groups of globular vesicles (ib. m.) situated in the Torpedo, symmetrically at the forepart of the head and outside the electric organs, run in parallel fasciculi from which the tubes, successively detaching themselves, perforate the skin, and terminate by orifices, some at the dorsal, some at the ventral surface, between the outer border of the electric organs and that of the body of the animal. A considerable filament of the ganglionic portion of the trigeminal nerve expands upon the ampulliform commencement of each of the muciferous tubes : the nerve may receive impressions conveyed to it by the tube and its clear jelly-like contents, or it may preside over the secretion of those contents, or combine both func- tions. The second or follicular system consists of linear series of minute subcutaneous subspherical cells, situated at the anterior part of the head of the Torpedo, chiefly on the under surface: each cell has a double membranous tunic, and contains a grey cerebriform matter;