264 LECTURE X. Commencement of S3'stemic Circulation: Gadus Callarias, Miiller. outwards to the end of the uniting substance, and there subdivide, (in the Cod,) one twig extending along the internal margin of the branchial process to its extremity, the other retrograding along the same margin to its base: from these marginal twigs the minute transverse vessels are distributed to the fine branchial lamince upon the sides of the process. The arterialised blood is carried to an efferent vessel, I’eturning along the ex- ternal margin of each branchial process, and by these is poured into the branchial vein {fig. 69* b). The four veins on each side, which are analogous to the pul- monary veins in man, unite to form the ‘ aortic circle’ (ib. a) which encompasses the basi- sphenoid (h). The current of arterialised blood flows forward at tlie fore-part of this circle into the hyo-opercular {e') and orbito-nasal {b) arteries; but the main streams are directed backwards, and converge in the direction of the arrows to the aortic trunk. The carotids (c), the homologues of the subclavians {d) sent to the pectoral fins, and sometimes the coronary vessels of the heart, are sent off from the aortic circle. But no systemic heart or rudiment of a propelling receptacle is developed in any fish at the point of confluence of the branchial veins. Small vessels are sent off from the marginal branchial venules by short trunks, which ramify beneath the branchial membrane, and become the ‘ arteriee nutritire’ of the gills : their capillaries are col- lected into venous trunks, which quit the gills commonly at both their extremities, those from the dorsal ends joining the jugular veins, those from the ventral ends emptying themselves into the prae- cavals, or directly into the great auricular sinus. * Such is the outline of the general structure of the beautiful and complex mechanism of the normal or pectinated gills of fishes. There are many minor modifications of this form, some of which I am tempted to notice from the explanation of their ‘ physical cause,’ which they receive from the known phenomena in the development of the gills; or from the light which the known habits of the species throw upon their ‘ final purpose.’ But, first, a brief sketch * These ‘ venie nutritia; ’ are unusually large in the Carp ; but are not, as Du Verney supposed (cvui.), directly continued from the true ‘ vena: branchiales; ’ and they do not, therefore, divert any of the stream of arterialised blood from the aorta to pour it directly into the venous sinus. See Miiller, xxi. 1841, p. 28.