258 LECTURK X. Giuioicl fishes, and ai’e arranged in longitudinal rather than in trans- verse rows: the Polypterus shows three such rows of nine or ten larger semilunar valves alternating with as many roAvs of smaller valves. The Lepidosteus has five longitudinal rows of sub-equal valves : those at the end of the bulb being ahvays the largest and most efficient. * In the Lepidosiren the place of valves is sup- plied in its long and twisted bulbus arteriosus by two longitudinal ridges {Jig. 71. c)f; the interesting stages, which Ave have been tra- eing through the highly organised Ganoids and Plagiostomes, in the partition of the bulb into distinct arterial trunks for the systemic and pulmonic circulation, being most advanced in this amphibious fish. The auricle in the Lepidosiren annectens is essentially single, but has two ear-like appendages.:j; The venous sinus communicates with it Avithout any intervening valve ; the auricle receives the vein from the air-bladder by a distinct aperture, close to the opening into the ventricle ; regurgitation into the vein being prevented by a hard valvular tubercle, Avhich also projects into the ventricle.§ The ven- tricle (ib. b') is single, like the auricle; its inner parietes are very irregular : a ‘trabecula’ projects from the lower part of the cavity, like a rudimental septum : a smaller transverse ‘ trabecula ’ arches over axid acts as a valve to the single auriculo-ventricular opening, but there are no proper membranous semilunar valves. The muscular parietes of the ‘ bulbus arteriosus ’ are distinct in all fishes from those of the ventricle; they may be overlapped by these, but an aponeurotic septum intervenes betAveen the oilgin of the bulb and the overlapping ventricular fibres (see prep. No. 910.). BRAJSrCHIAL VESSELS AND GILLS. The primary division of the branchial artery in the Myxinoids has been already described. Each gill-sac receives, either from the trunk or its bifurcations, its proper artery. The leading condition of the gills in other fishes may be understood by supposing each compressed * XXV. pi. ii. f XXXIII. p. 343. pi. xxvi. fig. 2. c. t Ib. p. 345. § A true second auricle consists essentially of a dilatation of this homologue of the ‘vena pulmonalis.’ Hyrtl (cxxiv.) errs in stating that the fibro-cartilaginous tubercle below the auriculo-ventricular aperture was “ weder von BischofF noch Owen angegeben.” It is described in my Memoir (xxiii.), p. 345. : “ It empties its contents into the ventricle by a distinct orifice, protected by a cartilaginous valvular tubercleand the tubercle is figured, from the auricular side, in pi. xxvi. fig. 2., where a bristle is placed above it, as in fig. 71. Ilyrtl gives a figure of the same ‘cartilaginous tubercle’ as “ die ken eifdrmigen harten faserknorpel ” (p. 35.), or “ fibro-cartilagindse Stempfel ” (p. 60.), from the ventricular side, tab. i. fig. 3. c. It is true that this singular body escaped the notice of Dr. Bischoff’, who, believing that the Lepidosiren was a reptile, overlooked many things that were, and saw some things that were not, in its organisation; as, e. g. two distinct auricles, and a nasal meatus communicating with the mouth.