9 PRINTED EOR LONGMAN, BROWN, AND CO. LAllDNER’S CABINET CYCLOPAEDIA; Coiiiprisinff a Series of Original Works on History, Biography, Literature, the Sciences, Arts, anU Alaiiufactures. Conducted and edited by Dr. Lakdneu. The Series, complete, in One Hundred and Thirty-three Volumes, ^ 30.18s. The works, separate, Gs. per volume. LARDNER & WALKER.—A TREATISE ON ELECTRICITY, iM.\GNETISM, and METEOKOLOGY. By D. Lardner, LL.D. F.R.S., and C. V. Walker, Secretary of tlie Electrical Society. 2 vols. fcp. 8vo. 12s. cloth. LATHAM.-ON DISEASES OE THE HEART. Lectures on Subjects connected with Clinical Medicine; comprising Diseases of the Heart. By P. M. Latham, M.U. Physicianjixtrnordiiiary to the Queen; and late Physician to St. Bartholomew’s Hospital. In Two Volumes. Vol. 1, 12ino. 8s. cloth. “ A book pointedly designed and admirably suited to popularise the study of Diseases of the Heart; and, as it is one of no ordinary merit, both as to matter and style, we have great pleasure in reviewing* it, chapter by chapter, from beginning to end. As appears, indeed, from what has been stated concerning the author’s own estimate of his labours, Dr. Latham s work may be looked upon as a Cardiac Pathology made Easy. But it is much more than this. It is a deeply reflective volume, replete with results indicative of close observation, and abounding with hints and directions which cannot fail to give a strong and beneflcial impulse to the study of cardiac disease.”—British and Foreign Medical Review. LAYCOCK.-A TREATISE ON THE NERVOUS DISEASES OE WOMEN; comprising an Inquiry into the Nature, Causes, and Treatment of Spinal and Hysterical Disorders. By Thomas Laycock, M.D. Member of the Royal College of Surgeons in London. 8vo. 10s. 6d. cloth. LECTURES ON POLARISED LIGHT, Delivered before the Pharmaceutical Society, and in the Medical School of the London Hos- pital. 8vo. illustrated by above 50 Woodcuts, 5s. Gd. cloth. LEEEVRE.-AN APOLOGY EOR THE NERVES; Or, their Importance and Influence in Health and Disease. By the late Sir George Lefevre, M.D. Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians, &c. &c. &c.; Author of “The Life of a Travelling Physician,” “Thermal Comfort,” &c. Post 8vo. 9s. cloth. “ Sir George Lefevre’s ‘ Apology’ is one of those at once learned, gossiping, and clever works, which the profession, and many out of it, especially those who have lived long enough to sympathise with and enjoy the author’s peculiarities, will delight to peruse, without de- riving from it habits of superficial examination or dogmatical dictation.”—Literary Gaz. • LEE.-LECTURES ON THE THEORY AND PRACTICE OE JIIDWIFERY, delivered in the Theatre of St. George’s Hosp. By Ro bert Lee, M.D. F.R.S. Fellow of the Royal Coll, of Physicians, Physician to the Brit. Lying-in Hosp., and Lecturer on Midwifery at St. George’s Hosp. 8vo. with nearly 70 Illustrations on Wood, 15s. cloth. “ A truly practical work, containing not only the author’s opinions on the different sub- jects connected with midwifery, but the results of his experience, founded on an accurate knowiedg-e of medical science, great industj-y and perseverance, and extensive opportunities of practice in the art of delivery at the British Lying-in Hospital. It forms a most excellent hook of instructions, and will be found useful for the student, and also for the general prac- titioner, who will obtain from it the best kind of information on the various and indeed all points of material difficulty and of less frequent occon-ence.”—Lancet. LEVER.-PRACTICAL TREATISE ON ORGANIC DISEASES of the UTERUS: being the Prize Essay to which the Medical Society of London awarded the Fothergillian Gold Medal for 1843. By John C. W. Lever, M.D. Member of the Royal College of Physicians, London, As.sistant-Accoucheur at Guy’s Hospital, &c. 8vo. 9s. cloth. “ Dr. Lever is one of those physicians who have a,right to address the medical public. He has not written before he has seen, but, on the contrary, he has seen before he has written. The result is a sound, practical work ; not an analysis of other people’s opinions, but founded on the author’s own personal experience ; and, us such, well deserving our serious considera- tion. Wc may safely pronounce his treatise one of the most practical and useful that have yet been published in our country; one which will undoubtedly tend to promote the study of uterine iiathology.”—Lancet. LIFE (THE) OF A TRAVELLING PHYSICIAN, From his first Introduction to Practice ; comprising Twenty Years’ Wanderings through the greater part ot Europe: with Notes of Events, Descriptions of Scenery, and Sltctches of Character. By the late Sir Georoe Lefevre, M.D. 3 vols. post 8vo. with 3 coloured Plates, d.'I. Us. 6d. cloth. “ The present work is written in a lively, often facetious, style—interspersed with deep reflection and acute observation. We return our best thanks to the unknown, or at least anonymous, author lor the entertainment and information wc have derived from his amusing life, wliicli we hope will be pi qlonged so tliat lie may be able, twenty years hence, to give us throe more volumes ol pi ofessioiiul travels through modern Babylon.” Johnson’s Mkdico-Ciiiruroical Review.