40 LECTURE II. dividual bones of the skeleton, with the occipital and parietal bones, with the dorsal vertebras, or the tibias ? In considering this and other questions previously discussed, you will begin to appreciate the difficulties in defining or determining what shall be considered a distinct and an individual bone in the skeleton. If we apply to each species the anthropotomical definition of a bone, as “ any single osseous piece of which the skeleton of the ma- ture animal is composed,” we must qualify it by suboi’dinate de- finitions of the different natures of such separate pieces of the skeleton. Hitherto bones have been primai’ily classified according to their form, as long and cylindrical, broad and flat, thick and squab, symmetrical, or unsymmetrical (xn*. xi. pp. 9, 10.) ; or, according to their position, into median* and lateral (xvi. p. xviii.), or into endo- skeletal, exo-skeletal, and splanchno-skeletal bones (i. 113. 115.). But, besides these, the above discussed deeper and more essential differences of the bones require that they should be divided into simple, as being developed from a single centre, and compound, as developed from separate centres; and the compound bones, in the human subject, for example, may be subdivided into the teleologically compound, as the ossa cylindrica, which are originally developed ft-om separate centres in relation to a sjiedal flnal purpose; and the homologically compound, as most of the ossa lata (occiput, scapula), and many ossa mixta (vertebx’ce, sacrum), which are developed from separate centres, representing permanently distinct simple bones in other Vertebrata. The teleologically compound bones have their relations limited to the particular exigencies of particular classes, but the homologically compbuiid bones have relations extending over the whole vertebrate series. The great aim of the philosophical osteologist is to determine, by natural characters, the natural groups of bones of which a verte- brate skeleton typically consists ; and, next, the relations of individual simple bones to each other in those primary groups, and to deflne the general, serial, and special homologies of each bone throughout the vertebrate series. By general homology I mean the relation in which a bone stands to the primary segment of the skeleton of which it is a part; thus, when the basi-occipital bone (basilar process of the os occipitis in anthropo- * These are mostly symmetrical ; but the youngest aiithropotomist must have met with instances of a curved vomer, and an unsymmetrical sternum ; and, on the other hand, most of the phalanges among the ossu. jiuria, scu IcUeralia, are sym- metrical.