205 NERVOUS SYSTEM OF FISHES. brown pigment here stains the soft integument or ‘ conjunctive membrane’ (o), continued from the periphery of the cornea. In the preparation of the eye of the same fish (No. 1649.), a very delicate layer or lining membrane is reflected from the posterior surface of the cornea, answering to the ‘ membrane of the aqueous humour of land animals : this humour exists in very small quantity, just enough to lubricate the iris in the eyes of Fishes: the medium through which the rays of light reach the eye needs no refractive aid from an aqueous fluid interposed before the lens in the globe itself. Amongst the most characteristic peculiarities of the eye in the typical or Osseous Fishes is the so called ‘ choroid gland’ (o): this is of the elass of bodies called vascular- or vaso-ganglions : it usually presents a dark red colour, and lies between the ‘ silvery’ and ‘ vascular’ layers of the choroid, more or less encompassing, in the shape of a horse- shoe or bent magnet, the entry of the optic nerve. Dr. Albers* dis- covered the rich marginal plexuses of vessels, whose trunks (‘stamme’) have their origin in this body, which he believed to consist also of a convolution of blood-vessels. Ordinary dissection, however, shows its compact substance to be arranged in parallel straight lines running between the convex and concave borders, and it has been called a ‘ muscle; ’ but I found that the supposed “ fibres con- sisted, in reality, of minute, parallel, and closely disposed vessels,” both arteries and veins. Professor Muller has detected an unex- pected relation of co-existence between the choroid vaso-ganglion and the pseudo-branchia, to which the Sturgeon, Lepidosiren, and the Pla- giostomes are amongst the few exceptions having the pseudo-branchias, but not the vaso-ganglia. The genera Silurus, Pimelodus, Synodon, Cobitis, and all the Eel-tribe, have neither pseudo-branchiae nor choroid vaso-ganglia. The most i-emarkable exceptional peculiarity in the structure of the eye in the present class is presented by the Anableps, the cornea of which is bisected by an opaque horizontal line, and the iris perforated by two pupils. The general form of the eyeball, or rather its capsule, in Fishes, is a spheroid, flattened anteriorly, around which part the integuments commonly form a circular fold, yielding to the movements of the globe. In Orthagoriscus the circular palpebral fold is deeper, and is provided with a sphincter: in most Scomberoid and Clupeoid Fishes there is an anterior and a posterior vertical transparent fold or eyelid. In tlie eye of the Galeus (Prep. 1762.), you may see a nietitat- ing membrane superadded to a well-developed circular palpebral fold of • i.xxvi, t LXVI. vol. Hi. (1836) ; p. 145. prep. 1656. : and lxvii.