124 LECTURE V. the Remora, the Ribband-fish (^Cepola), the Uranoscopus scaber, the Blennies, the Siluroids, and the Apodal Fishes, with the exception of the Sand-lance, which difiers from the Eels in having the epi-coracoids. That they belong to the system of hsemal or inferior vertebrate arches, and make a transition from the enormously developed arch of the occipital to the ordinary costal arches of the second and sub- sequent abdominal vertebrae, is indicated by their functions arising out of their muscular attachments. In the Carp two ‘ musculi quad- rat!,’ arising from the coracoid, are inserted into the epi-coracoid; one entirely, the other partially, and this latter is continued backwards, to be similarly implanted into the rib of the second abdominal ver- tebra; similar but more delicate muscular bands, degenerating into aponeuroses, pass to the succeeding ribs, which are thus drawn forward by the protraction of the epi-coracoids, or haemapophyses of the atlas. By this action an effect analogous to the expansion of the thorax in Mammalia is produced, the air-bladder being permitted to dilate by the augmented capacity of the abdomen. As the terminal segment (hand or foot) of a locomotive member is the essential part, or the great aim, so to speak, of the development of such radiated appendage, it is the first part to appear and the last to disappear. It exists without intermediate segment in the ventral fins of all fishes, and in the pectorals of some, e. g. the Rays, and the Lepidosiren {fig. 27.) : in others there may be a carpal seg- ment, as in the Lophius {fig. 4D. 56), the antibrachial segment being confiuent with the arch : in most fishes both a carpal (se) and an anti- brachial segment exist, as in the Cod {fig. 19. 54, 55); in Polypterus a metacarpus makes its appearance: but in none is there a distinct brachial segment or humerus, interposed between the anti-brachium and the arch; it is at best represented by some small, supplemental third bone manifesting that relation very dubiously. The special homology of the pectoral fins of fishes with the fore limbs of quadrupeds was indicated by Aristotle, and first definitely pointed out in later times by Artedi, in 1735, who says,— “ Ossa pec- toris et ventris in piscibus reperiuntur ; suntque in piscibus spinosis: 1. Claviculae; 2. Sternum; 3. Scapulas, seu ossa quibus pinnce pec- torales ad radicem affiguntur.” {Partes Piscium, p. 39.) Geoflfroy St. Hilaire, who has devoted special Memoirs to the determination of the bones of the pectoral fin, had no knowledge of the primary homology of the pectoral fin as the radiated appendage of the inferior arch of a cranial vertebra, or of its serial homology with the branchiostegal and opercular fins. He consequently speaks of the junction of the basis of the fin to the cranium as something very strange : — “ Disposition